ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13786	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's not a direct violation of the Rules of Procedure, it's a violation that makes the Government according to our Rules of Procedure. We have on the side of 56th and 57th several members who are regulated by the institution - parliamentary issues. So far, I've provided five questions in writing: I've sent two to Mr. Korac, two to the Ministry of Transport and one to the Minister of Education. Two questions have been since June of the month, and here in article 96, it says: "response to the MP in writing within eight days of the day the question is asked". I ask the President of the Assembly to check with our administration whether my letters are sent to the government and to intervene with the Government to start answering our questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13787	Thank you. There is a word from Parliament MP Dusan Ilic, followed by MP Dragisa Marinkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13788	The Honorable Presidency, dear colleagues, Mr. Minister, as all known DSS MPs have kind of participated in the drafting of this law in their amendments. At first, I would like to thank Mr. Minister, his deputy and his assistants for their correct attitude and cooperation, for having heard what was good and for accepting our amendments in the work that was acceptable. On the other hand, I would like to say that for those amendments that have not been accepted, that this has been done in an argument and very correct manner and I am taking this opportunity to give up on these amendments. We participated in the work of this law primarily because we consider this law to be good and that our economy is needed. The situation in our economy is widely known and in some ways it survives because of the goodwill of the international community. The economic flows, we have to say now, have some bright points: it's a stable course, a fuller budget, a slight increase in exports. However, the decline in investment is something that we all have to imagine. This decline in investment has also occurred in some ways because business plans are not done properly. Simply, investors don't approach it the right way. The agency, which should be formed by this law, will sort of solve the problem because it will have an educational character, which will help small and medium-sized enterprises to reach these business plans successfully and move towards investors. In that part, we welcome this law. This law is completely ideologically contrary to the law passed by the SPS parliamentary group several months ago. That is the difference and, among other things, that is one of the main reasons why we now support this law. On the other hand, the law is good because it in some way contributes to the rounding of legislative action in the transition of our economy, which leaves in distress a overcome, ideological model of self-management. With this law, one regulation of the government of the Republic of Serbia is also becoming excessive. The promoter expressed his wish for this agency to be formed by law and recognised the futility of the regulation. It is a regulation on the general secretariat and other services of the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was established by the government by 12 special organisations, including 11 agencies and one communications bureau. What exactly are special organizations? The special organisations constitute one system of state administration authorities and are mentioned in our Constitution, in Article 94. Roughly speaking, the difference between special organisations and ministries is that the elders of these organisations are appointed by the Government, unlike the ministries that are under the jurisdiction of the Assembly I will list the agencies set up by this regulation, thereby explaining that the government has bridged certain ministries and the executive authority has directed beyond the control of the Assembly. These are pursuant to Article 3, the Communications Bureau, the Agency for the Development of Information and Internet, the Agency for Foreign Investments, the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, the Agency for the Promotion of Management, the Agency for Relations with Diaspora, the Agency for the Development of Health, the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, the Agency for the Promotion of River Traffic, the Agency for the Harmonisation of Law with EU law and the Culture Development Agency. It is evident by listing that in some ways the ministries have been bridged and what is particularly unfortunate in this regulation is that these agencies have been given executive authority. In the meantime, I was trying to contact the secretariats of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and I had some information that the government had passed a regulation withdrawing Article 6 of this Regulation, which I was just talking about, or Article 6 is talking about the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. I am not sure that this is the right way, and I do not believe that only this regulation will contribute to further work, further legislative work of this assembly. I hope that the government will really have the strength to withdraw this regulation on the General Secretariat so that we can give a calm conscience that we vote for this, basically good and necessary, law. I hope that Minister Vlahovic, his, undoubtedly large, authority in the government, will advocate to support this position that we have; by proposing this law, he has silently and supported it, and I hope that he will thus show and prove that the public suspicions of the government's work are unnecessary, and our fear of monopolising the executive authority is unwarranted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13789	Dragisa Marinkovic's MP has the word, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13790	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Your Honor, Your Honor, Mr. Minister, I express my pleasure, as an MP in the assembly, which one of these laws has come to the agenda of this assembly. The reason is that for months we have passed some laws that are fundamental to the legal system for this country's system; however, it is up to us, as MPs, to help this government bring the economy to life, to direct, to give our ideas. And we're responsible for part of it, and we, like them, are for this economy to start, for the small and medium that have been neglected in this previous system to get the door that they can knock on and start that idea of theirs, that their production. Why was this economy needed by one of these agencies, which we now virtually and legally verify? So far we've had one condition that small and medium-sized were usually these craftsmanships. It was some private business, or crafts or trade, they were commissions, but they were private survival businesses. And usually such businesses were located on their street, farthest to the city; whoever was working and doing business all over the country, he was the biggest, he was big. I've been fortunate to visit some countries, which have indeed done a lot in the world in terms of these small and medium-sized enterprises, such as Taiwan, Korea, South Korea, and I've seen another concept -- how the nations succeed through just such small and medium-sized enterprises to greatly increase income in their own country. For those little ones, when they make a product, there's always a whole world ahead of them. It's always been local with us, but there's always a state behind them. In this case, the agencies are going to stand behind such small and medium-sized ones to help them at the very beginning. We were, unfortunately, in one system that was wrong and had nothing to do with what was done in the world and how it was done. I'm a 15-year-old private and I'm so few things, those rules as they work in the world, I knew. The most basic thing is that when you have a good idea, you should write a good business plan. Now someone would say -- wait, what's big about it now, you give it to someone and he writes it to you. But the basic thing about the business plan lies with whoever has the idea. So, we need to teach this man, to train him to know he's knocking on the bank door, but to know as a real businessman to knock on that door. I will now tell you a fresh example (someone will laugh at it), since this government already has some money and a fund and already loans to small and medium-sized enterprises for production - a gentleman handed over his business plan and wrote in that business plan what he would do, and as a guarantee he sent a picture of his house, sent a picture from his wedding when he married his daughter and now it really looks funny because it's not that. But, frankly, I see behind that man a real honest host from whom the next day, when this country helps him and when he gets a loan, he really is some real businessman. For what? Because with us in Serbia whoever has a house, who has made a good wedding, he is the host. So, if I was the host so far, I could continue to be. When this law is passed and the agencies are set up, I'd like those agencies to have close contact with the chambers and with the association, because, frankly, I think it's this driving force, so first people learn how to do it, and then, through the chamber and the association, run that whole cycle of business. Of some representatives of the committee groups in the last session, we may have had sneered views about this agency, in terms of, the West gave you some money, and then they'll take your advice on what you've just set up. To tell you the truth, gentlemen, first of all we need knowledge, we need a lot of knowledge to go into some world, so these little ones can start working. So that knowledge is expensive all over the world, we know that, but it's the best way to sum up that knowledge into one, right through the agency. Why is that? Because on a sea of fronts, the sea of dots in this country would all those who realized they had no knowledge have to do the same. This way we do it through the agencies, the agencies will then pass on to all the pores of this society what we have gained as knowledge and people will know the way they will behave and work. To be honest, it's not easy to take credit, it's easy, when you take credit, it goes away, and our people say it's succumbing, if the interest is large; you need to know what interest is that is decent and which man can endure. That's what our man, unfortunately, doesn't know and needs to be trained for. In the end, I would like to invite all of you MPs to vote for this bill, because I think he and the agency that is forming will mean a lot to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13791	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13792	Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. President, can it really not be one day that you do not harm the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? As of this morning, you have injured Article 89 of the 1st indent, which reads: "The People's MPs receive the word, in turn, according to whether they support or dispute the proposal, as stated in the application for the word." This morning, you gave a word to two MPs who support the bill, although there are registered MPs who are against the bill, e.g. I know we Serbian radicals are against this proposal. If you're deceived by the DSS's position from that day, from ten days ago when they might have reported that they would be against it, it's obviously from this discussion, and you should know as a member of that parliamentary group, that they've changed their attitude in these ten days and that they're now for the bill of law. Please, you yourself have written this provision of the Rules of Procedure, you have asked for MPs to speak alternately, please respect that provision of the Rules of Procedure. It really doesn't make sense anymore that now, even though you have some order, you determine when, in which terms, what terms are impacting, what is important, so that you determine when the representatives of the government or representatives of the opposition will speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13793	Your objection would be very interesting and valuable if you were right. But you're wrong. There's a problem. It's not about any change of attitude, as far as I'm aware, of the DSS parliamentary groups, and it's still not going to support the law. Where you came from, I don't know. You may have some secret sources of information. (Tomislav Nikolic: I listen to the discussion, unlike you. You may have listened, but you obviously did not understand. That's one aspect. The second is to apply it according to what the MPs in the application state. I cannot know what any of the people's messengers will say, but read what is stated in the report. You had a case of your entire parliamentary group, that during the hearing you spoke against the law, and in the end you voted for the law. That was seven or eight months ago, or vice versa, that you supported the law and voted against it. (Alexander Vukic): We never voted for any law. Don't make it up. It was like that. It's that pay grade law or the agrarian budget. I can't know that, except for what's in the application and that's how the service list works. Of course, in the meantime, it can, it is information, that there is a change in order because the reported MPs give up their words, so there is a disturbance of the originally formed list. There will be cases like this today. We have two canceled formerly registered speakers. The word is from MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13794	Dear Mr President, fellow Members of Parliament, Mr Minister, the draft law establishing the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises for us is not acceptable, because it is incomplete, undefined in terms of the Agency's activity, without investment potential, without a market component, without material support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, without a basis that would allow the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which would allow the expansion of the basic work of small and medium-sized enterprises and put these companies in a place that belongs to them in Serbia's economy, high and significant. The draft law establishing the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises for us Socialists is not acceptable and because the issue of fate, status, potential, owned by small and medium-sized enterprises does not treat small and medium-sized enterprises as they deserve. I must express my surprise why the Government of the Republic of Serbia, which is so busy in the chest, at least publicly, to care about the economy, production, employment, change in the production structure, and to call for the experiences of developed countries, has not proposed a law to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as it has been done in a significant number of developed countries, but is going to a partial, in any case incomplete solution, such as this bill on the establishment of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. The only thing dedicated to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and contained in this proposal for a document, is in the title, in the name of the agency. That and nothing else. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not deserve such a ignoring relationship with the government of the Republic of Serbia. Small and medium-sized enterprises do not deserve it, given their number and place in the country's economy. Small and medium-sized enterprises have experienced expansion in our economy in the last decade. The increase in their number was logically followed by an increase in the number of employees, by increasing the share of these companies in the creation of the country's social product. Certain data for Yugoslavia, though several months old, say that of 74,430 companies, which had funds in the account, 95% belonged to the structure and number of employees, small enterprises, 3.4% belonged to medium-sized enterprises, while 1.2% were classified in large enterprises. In terms of ownership structures, the largest number of these companies were private-owned enterprises, over 85%, then social property 7% and 5% with mixed property. I say yes, because the conditions of rejuvenation have deteriorated significantly in the meantime. As part of the development strategy by 2020, the SRJ predicted that the country's development was also based on the accelerated development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises have shown their vitality, ability, all qualities that qualify them with the type, type of enterprise, for the country's economy, where it is necessary to change the production structure, find answers for development requirements, market issues and the need to hire as many workers as possible. They also showed this after NATO's armed aggression on our country in 1999, when 144 companies were destroyed or damaged and over 80,000 workers were out of work. Small and medium-sized enterprises then took workers from other so-called companies under the Economic and Social Programme of the Government of Serbia on employment and reconstruction by war-damaged enterprises. large companies, new small enterprises have been established that produced appropriate parts, and mixed small and medium-sized enterprises between private enterprises and war-damaged enterprises. The result was then multiple - restoring and developing material production, primarily production of certain products, new employment of workers. Under more than 2,900 programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises, which were then designed by the Ministry of Science and Technology, some 700 new companies were then established and around 8,000 employees were employed, but also more than 31,000 workers in large enterprises. Given the economic situation in our country now, it would be very good if the Serbian government had given greater importance to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises than it has done through this proposal that the Assembly is discussing today. This year's September production, compared to last year's, according to statistics, is lower by 5.1%. In the January-September period this year, compared to last year, production decreased by 3.7%. Such a situation in production, logically, has also been reflected in the number of employees, which stagnates. Unemployment in Serbia is on a steady rise. According to the Labour Market Office, in December 2000 there were 731,320 citizens in Serbia looking for a job, and in June this year their numbers increased to 763,530. How many new unemployed people will be through the application of economic measures by the government of the Republic of Serbia no one dares to say publicly. Some government spokesmans, however, shyly mention a number of several hundred thousand new unemployed. There is practically no investment in production, and of course there are no new jobs. With its own measures, the state does not create a more favourable environment for the operation of the company, except for the public, through the constant rise in the prices of their services. The other companies are only interested if they are profitable and market-interested. The only way to look at it is to sell it as quickly as possible. Dear colleagues, the bill that we have received does not show how the Agency, i.e. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants and can contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, to reduce unemployment, to increase production, to boost the market side and the ability of small and medium-sized enterprises. You can't see how the Agency, i.e. The government can achieve these objectives through the tasks foreseen by the law, which are comprised of professional assistance, exchange of statistical data, information, training of instructors and consultants for the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises, proposing measures of economic policy, and in the context of co-operation with the competent ministry. There is no financial support for business and the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through loans, of course, according to criteria and procedures to be accurately established. The agency, as planned, is actually a hybrid that doesn't hurt, but it doesn't help. It's actually a marketing agency that's going to talk a lot about small and medium-sized enterprises, which are going to spend state money, which is going to hire about their cost of so-called. professional faces, but which, apart from stories about themselves and small and medium-sized enterprises, will not be able to help small and medium-sized enterprises. It's actually a public company that's going to spend state money, and it's not going to make any money. The government also predicted the establishment of regional organisations at the expense of the budget. The government of the Republic of Serbia rejected a bill a few months ago to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which were proposed by the Socialists and which represented a normative, institutional, systemic support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia and, of course, in Yugoslavia. The law, i.e. The proposal containing criteria setting out small and medium-sized enterprises, the content of the annual programme of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the tasks of the development agency, the way the loan fund works and guarantees of small and medium-sized enterprises and other provisions, i.e. other elements of importance for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The government of the Republic of Serbia, to remind me, then gave a negative opinion on the bill, without more serious arguments or using completely contradictory arguments. If the government had offered its concept of developing small and medium-sized enterprises, a comprehensive law, an economy development strategy, I would not be surprised at that relationship. We now see that the Government of the Republic of Serbia is only talking about small and medium-sized enterprises, without the intention of helping their development, their future. The existing legislation does not provide sufficient opportunities to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. With famous tax laws, the government abolished some of the benefits that were set for small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, it shows what this government has to do with these companies. The establishment of a small and medium-sized enterprises agency under the bill will not contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia, will not increase production, will not reduce unemployment. So, this bill of law, we socialists, we're not gonna support it. Finally, if this bill is passed, we will have two agencies to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. One which the Government of the Republic of Serbia established by its regulation and another which will be set up by this law, both of which would deal with the same, for small and medium-sized enterprises and the economy of Serbia, for poor business, for no investment, without increasing production, without opening new jobs, without hiring new people. In addition, as far as this concept of the government of the Republic of Serbia on support for small and medium-sized enterprises is overcome, it best shows and confirms the practice itself and life itself. The other day, I heard from radio waves that "Newsadska Banka" and the Institute for Reconstruction and Reconstruction offer projects and loans for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia. The bank, therefore, has not only taken over from the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, as defined by the government, but also by others that the government has not defined, which are important for the establishment, operation and development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This showed, in fact, where such a small and medium-sized business development agency is located, in the corner, that a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency in Serbia is not required. That's why we're socialists against this bill and we're not gonna support it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13795	The People's Messenger Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and after him, the MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13796	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, Mr Minister, given the extremely unfavourable economic structure, that is, the structure of business entities in Serbia during the privatisation process, we certainly will not be able, by privatising social enterprises, to increase the number of employees. Therefore, the only chance for employment, i.e. to increase the number of employees, are, above all, small and family companies and partially medium-sized enterprises. This is what the experiences from Europe, from the advanced regions, are about. Some of us have talked to each other, and you know that the number of these small businesses there is from 2 to 10 employees, so they do not belong to a group of medium-sized enterprises, and such companies can only function if economic development is planned and implemented on local self-government and in regions. You can't plan a small company with several employees from central, or Belgrade, but you have to list the resources that the region has and on the basis of these resources to determine the strategic direction of development and provide logistics based on strategic development, but local self-government has to do so. So, business zones, infrastructure, access to capital, institutions that have to monitor these companies at functions that cannot carry out themselves, and there are marketing, finance, there is development, that is, research centres that will enable development and development programmes. As a result, I believe that this approach, or this agency, without much greater coordination with local self-government and other laws, which must be forwarded to this law, will not produce results. This leads to experiences in the work of those regional agencies that have already been formed. I don't have enough time to talk to you about examples, and there are examples like this with us, because one of the first agencies was formed in Leskovec. So this law must be necessary. However, I think that very quickly it will have to be done and done in the area where regional agencies are being processed, because we in New Serbia think that the economic independence of municipalities and decentralisation of authorities at all levels is primarily necessary, including decentralisation of the functions of government, as are the functions to be covered by this agency. The 14-member law treats a Belgrade-based central agency and says only in 15 members that regional agencies can be formed. Even though Mr. Minister said that the central agency is institutional support, and that regional agencies represent implementation on the ground, I think it was much more important to give importance to regional agencies, or directly to those who will correspond with entrepreneurs on the ground. The entrepreneur will not succeed even if you make him a business plan, or if you give him credit; if he has no access and does not have an organised business zone or an industrial zone, but with infrastructure. Example: one of the entrepreneurs in Leskovec got a loan, got machines, and three months couldn't get a power connection, he'd go bankrupt. What does that mean? So because we don't exactly have co-ordination with local self-government, these agencies can't provide the right function, or serve the purpose. So I repeat once again that on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs we have spoken very openly about this and this law we have resented the excess centralisation, but we have accepted it as a necessary evil, or something to begin with. We believe that this law must be more decentralised and that many more functions and specific tasks must be brought down to regional agencies, in coordination with other institutions that will support the development of these agencies at regional level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13797	The People's MP Branislav Blazic has the word, followed by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13798	Ladies and gentlemen, it's hard in a minute and a half to do some serious analysis of a bill like this. That's why I'm going to try one three questions to answer. Certainly small and medium-sized enterprises are a possible chance for Serbia's development. This is not disputed and these are companies of 50 - 250 workers, who are more efficient in any case. However, it is disputed whether this way of supporting and systematising the problem through the agency is effective. We are told here that experiences from Scotland and Ireland have been used. I don't think that these experiences can certainly be applied in our field and that perhaps we should use more experience in transition countries. Surely, in their mistakes, there is a need to find the right solutions; and they have indeed sinned greatly. We shouldn't be making up something that's already proven in practice. I think this agency should be used to fund, in fact, consultants who will come from the West to help develop small and medium-sized enterprises. What's always a great danger, it's that we give too much meaning to their knowledge and their intelligence, especially what we know, for example, Jeffrey Saxe, who is presented here, not only here but in all transition countries, as some god who will help these economies, who, after all, is also the creator of this shock therapy in the economy, and in the end, he has admitted that this is the stupidest thing he's ever done in his life. He confessed to his stupidity, he has no responsibility for it, and the damage to transition countries was ultimately huge. That's why we don't need to underestimate our brains and our knowledge. I think there's enough intelligence in this country and enough knowledge; what's necessary for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, it's financial support, and certainly one systematicization in this business, but through our people who know the whole problem well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13799	The word is by MP Branimir Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13800	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the proposal for a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is governed by an area that has worked so far. With the establishment of this agency, the government is preparing a strategy for developing small and medium-sized enterprises, developing and promoting the promotion of entrepreneurship and raising the entire area to a higher level. As about eight regional agencies have been established so far, if I am not mistaken, this republican agency would have been tasked with providing professional assistance with specific programmes, as well as with the conclusion of contracts with international organisations and institutions. I especially stress this, because regional agencies are certainly unable to provide one such help. In this part, I would support a colleague of Stamenkovic who spoke earlier, who is the same member of the Committee on Economic Development and Co-operation with abroad, where we discussed this law, where we supported it, because it is necessary to have one such republican agency, which would, in fact, have a unique information system, and that information would be at the service of both domestic and foreign partners. I would like to send a message that this concept is acceptable for me, with the adoption of amendments by Mr. Shormaz and Mr. Ilic, where it is said that the director of the agency is elected by the board of directors, which the government has rejected, because if the government sets up a board of directors and supervisors, then it is logical that the board also appoints the director of the agency. Speaking of the government, with all due respect to Mr Vlahovic for his work and the work of his ministry, I would like to address the criticism at the expense of the Government Regulation, which was adopted on 28 February this year, which educated eleven agencies and the communications bureau. With this procedure, the government took away the constitutional right of the National Assembly to assess whether these agencies and this communications bureau were necessary. The name of this Regulation is the Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen, anyone who reads this text further (I have the text of the Regulation in front of me) can conclude that the Government has hereby counter-constitutionally formed the Communications Bureau and eleven agencies. No single provision is prescribed by the internal organisation of the General Secretariat itself. So it was just about agencies. It all comes down to that communications desk and the agencies. So we come to that beginning, where on the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs we asked the Ministry's representative -- is this really the legalisation of what the government already did in February this year? I'd like to quote you Article 6. It states: "The Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises is developing and proposing programmes for the deployment of international assistance, monitoring and proposing measures to the relevant authorities, launching public competitions for the use of aid and developing and proposing programmes for the development of private enterprises, co-operation with relevant organisations in the world and doing other jobs, at the request of the Government and the relevant ministries. "It is a quote from Article 6 of this Regulation. Look, one thing is imposed here -- if the regulation is constitutional, as the Government has so far claimed, then this law is not needed, because the Agency has already been established. If the law is now passed because the Regulation is not constitutional, then it is logical for the government to withdraw the Regulation in full and then vote for this law. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, in this regulation, Article 6 does not say that it is the establishment of a regional agency, as Mr Dejan Popovic explained to us on the Development Committee. Then I didn't have this regulation, and I accepted it as such, however, from the very text I quoted to you it appears that no mention of the regional agency is made. That's why I'd like to say that DSS MPs will not vote for this bill until the government withdraws the regulation from February 28th this year. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13801	There is a word from MP Radojko Petric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13802	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is important for the economy of each country. And the most developed countries in the world pay extraordinary attention to this issue. With their macroeconomic policy measures, they lead a selective policy to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. All developed countries have passed a law on small businesses. The European Union has also adopted a directive to develop small businesses. The importance of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is seen primarily in the next - in the employment of new workers, in establishing a balanced relationship and complementing each other with large enterprises, very positively affecting the flexibility and adaptability of the economy with changes that follow due to technological development and innovation. The existence of a branch network and a large number of successful small enterprises enables foreign capital imports to be balanced and thus to prevent the domination of foreign-owned enterprises. Small businesses are an exceptional and favourable environment, where young organizers, young managers can quickly gain experience and can progress quickly. True, small businesses are not strategic developmentists, and in this respect they do not need to be overestimated because it still belongs to large companies. The establishment of small and medium-sized enterprises and the provision of professional and material support, in addition to the above-mentioned reasons, is necessary for our country for two more reasons, for breaking the former Yugoslavia and for NATO destruction. Namely, businesses have been set up for larger territory and now, due to interruptions in economic relations with the former republics, and now new countries, a production link and a reduced market has been broken. That's why you need to fill that void. And not to mention the necessity of setting up small and medium-sized enterprises, to overcome the consequences of NATO destruction and to hire a large number of workers who have lost their jobs, to continue to support what the SPS government was doing in 1999 and 2000. On the basis of these facts, and especially by estimating the difficult economic situation in which the country is located, it was logical and necessary that the government identified, as one of the priority issues in its work, the taking of measures to help the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Unfortunately, she didn't do it. Not only did she not do anything in that direction in 10 months from the formation, but she blocked the activities others were doing. In this year, Professor Branislav Ivkovic submitted to this assembly a bill on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The bill was made very studioy, at a high level of regulation and scope of measures, which indeed provide support for the development of these companies. The proposal was on the agenda of this assembly only in mid-May of this year. Instead of being adopted, with any additions through the amendments, he was, on a proposal from the government, rejected by the DOS majority. When we make a comparison of this proposal, which the Government has submitted and which we are considering today, with the bill submitted by Professor Branislav Ivkovic, it is evident that the Government's proposal does not provide any support in the near development of these companies, as it is. Ivkovic suggested. The basic lack of this proposal is that it does not really provide material support in the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Article 4 of this proposal says funds from the Republic of Serbia's budget, from the grant, from sponsorship, are provided for the establishment of the agency. The future work of the Agency should be financed from donations, sponsorships and revenues made by performing operations of its own competence. It is immediately clear from this that there is no talk of the government's serious intention to provide real resources for the incentive and development of these companies. I ask the question, how long does it count on donations and sponsorship, that kind of charity that the government is now stroking around the world at a high cost of making various concessions and at the expense of the future of this country. What are the real prospects for the agency to make its own revenues by providing services to those who still need to start small or medium-sized enterprises. De facto it is evident that this law has a declarative character, and that without material support it means nothing. Our people don't say for nothing - empty doesn't shoot. In order to promote the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, the law should be adopted and the way and the source of the security of funds should be foreseen. It can be regulated by the establishment of a special fund, as rightfully proposed by Prof. Ivkovic, or otherwise, where the sources of funds will be clearly and taxed. As a source of funds, it is normal to remain the budget of the Republic of Serbia, and part of the funds for the development of the Republic of Serbia, part of the funds to be obtained through the privatisation of the company, part of the funds from the Labour Market Office, and currently part of the extra-income tax and other funds that can be provided for the promotion and development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the long term. The invested assets, small part as grants and largely in the form of favourable loans, will return multiple times. This will make a significant contribution to overcoming the current difficult economic situation and generalising economic development, as well as overall improving citizens' living standards. Finally, I would just like to point out that, in terms of the need to ensure Serbia's even regional development (which is also a constitutional obligation), it is necessary to provide that regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises are to be established at least for the area of each regional Chamber of Commerce and the city of Belgrade. Amendments should be made in Article 15. A proposal, where it is said, can be set up by regional development agencies. It should provide that they are necessarily established in the area of at least the regional chambers of commerce, and there is no interference in establishing smaller areas, for one or more municipalities, as proposed in Article 2(2). It should not happen that certain areas are neglected, and others, who know for what reasons, favored. The law itself is really pointless to adopt, until marked complements are carried out and lasting resources for the incentive and development of these companies are defined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13803	The word is by MP Petar Cvetkovic, followed by MP Miroljub Veljkovic, Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13804	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are considering the draft law given by the Government, which is the law on a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency. I will discuss this law later, and before that I would point out that we have had a small and medium-sized company development agency in Serbia for several months. The agency was established by the Serbian government regulation, a regulation that reads: a regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The DSS pointed to the government and the entire Serbian public for the unconstitutional and anti-constitutional nature of this regulation, which established 11 agencies and one communications bureau, practically 12 agencies. They shall all form special organisations established in Article 94. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. In response to these criticisms, the government of the Republic of Serbia has assessed that DSS criticisms are unargued, unfounded, means they have no basis in reality or law. This dilemma was resolved by the government of the Republic of Serbia itself, and this is how - by giving in the procedure of the Prologus Act on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. The government ruled that its regulation is anti-constitutional or illegal, because if the government had been authorised to set up agencies and communications bureaus, there would be no need for this law. As soon as there's a need for this law, it means directly that the government has unauthorizedly implemented these 12 agencies. I must say some commendable words by Mr. Minister regarding the drafting of this draft law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. It is correct in principle, necessary, and it is also necessary to design our economic recovery and development on small and medium-sized enterprises. In that sense, the insistence and intensity of Mr. Minister and his ministry are fully in place. But on the other hand, as I said, we have 11 agencies and one bureau. One privatisation agency was covered by that privatisation law, and another by this law. What about the other ten special organizations? Will the Government of the Republic of Serbia give a special law for each of these agencies? Whether we're going to have to put in a procedure and adopt all those 10, 11 laws in this House. Is it much more responsible than the Government of the Republic of Serbia, why not, the one who is doing this and the one who is wrong, let him admit that it is illegal, unconstitutionally founded by agencies and let him think about it. Or let's all think about it. Is it possible, whether all these agencies are first needed, is it possible to establish and edit all these agencies' work and business with one legal text. On the other hand, the government's illegal conduct and anti-constitutional behaviour have created some concentration rounds of decision-making, I would say. Many of these agencies have almost the same jurisdiction as the resolution ministries. Say, don't criticize me, but I think one of those agencies is called the Culture Development Agency. What is the responsibility of this agency, and what is the responsibility of the ministry? That's the case with all the other agencies. One of the MPs, I think it's about Mr. Ilic, he read the names of those agencies, and I'm going to have to read them, too. I will try to say in one sentence that the competences of these agencies, which have been operating for several months this year, are almost identical and in many ways coincide with the jurisdiction and rights of the resolution ministries, which leads to a legal chaos of the functioning of the entire state administration and the ministries themselves, because they do not know whose rights they are, whose obligations they are and whose responsibilities they are. The creation of such chaos prevents the ability to control competent ministries and government by parliament. I think that was the government's goal: to prevent the government's work from being controlled by the Republic of Parliament. According to the regulation, the Communications Bureau is formed, it performs both ad hoc, operational, organisational and administrative technical tasks relating to public information on the work of the Government and the like. So that's one agency that propagates the government's successful work, with the goal of creating the impression that it's done, that it's done a lot and quality. The following is the Agency for the Development of Information and the Internet, then the Agency for Foreign Investments and Export Promotion, and the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. This law proposes establishing a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency, but the bill does not say what to this agency that the government has already established. We received assurances from Minister Aleksandr Vlahovic that he will automatically stop the work of the agencies established by the government's regulation. I personally trust Mr. Minister, but we are too serious a country to function on our word. So, in this bill, there should be something to do with this previous agency, whether it still works, stops working or is abolished, or the government regulation that is illegal and anti-constitutional is most easily abolished. The following of these agencies is the Agency for the Promotion of Management, the Agency for Relations with Diaspora, the Agency for the Promotion of Health, the Agency for the Promotion of State Administration, the Agency for the Promotion of River Traffic, the Agency for the Harmonisation of Law with EU law and the Agency for the Development of Culture. I expect, and this may happen, unless this regulation of the Republic of Serbia is abolished, new agencies will be set up. Maybe the agriculture agency, the judiciary, the police agency, why not. Therefore, the DSS MPs will not support the proposal this way, regardless of what we said was necessary to pass the Agency's law, until a decision on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is put out of force, but also the entire illegal and anti-constitutional decision of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13805	There is a word from the People's MP Bozidar Vujic, followed by Emilia Krstic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13806	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Serbia has a development fund. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has its task, its role, its obligations, its purpose and, above all, its goal. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia is a legal entity, so if so, it has its own organisational structure, its own organs, which have these same obligations, the role and, above all, the objective. Then why this agency? If nothing else, then to mutilate, to legalise the government's intention to take over everything. You, gentlemen of the DOS MPs, are therefore serving this assembly to just legalize what the government already has through the regulations it has passed - to take over everything in its own hands and to form an agency through this law even though there is a fund for the development of the Republic of Serbia that could do all this, because it worked, designed and realized. Therefore, as a member of the SRS, I advocate that this fund be brought to life as it is intended for it and it is extremely unnecessary for this agency to be formed, and the choice is on you, gentlemen of the DOS MPs, you work for the government. The people said in the elections that they had defined themselves for a better life, conditionally said for reforms, voting for DOS. DOS ignored it, gave it to the government. The choice is up to you, it's your understanding and understanding of democracy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13807	The People's MP Emilija Krstic has the word, followed by MP Milan Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13808	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Ministers, has said a lot about the Government of Serbia's regulation on all agencies and communications bureaus, which is one of the reasons why the DSS will not vote in favour of this law unless the government abolishes the regulation that set up all these agencies. Of course, I have to say that this does not mean that the DSS puts clips in the wheels of the reform processes in Serbia, as Mr. Zivkovic said on TV last night, that some should take their foot off the brake and put it on the gas or clutch. On the contrary, the DSS requires that we should know, as the most legislative body, whether we apply the regulation or apply the regulation, and now we will abolish it and bring the law. It is not disputed that the law on the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises needs Serbia at the moment. There's a lot of reasons for that. The transition process that Serbia is going through, which primarily implies a transition from one closed, inefficient, technical and technologically lagging, non-competitive economy to everything that involves a model of economically developed European and world-wide countries, requires legal intervention to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Of course, there are experiences of developed countries as regards support for small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises appear as the hub of all economic processes, economic and economic growth. They also appear as what large companies should rely on in these processes, because in our conditions they have also proved to be inflexible, uncompetitive and unproductive. At the same time, in their economic activity, they were powerless to, with all state intervention, monitor European economic development flows at the speed they are being imposed, and in this regard they have lagged behind the entire economy. Furthermore, what awaits us in the next period is the privatisation process. In this process, we must say, one part of the employees of the state and social sector will lose their jobs, and small and medium-sized enterprises, if they have adequate support, if the government and this state are to work on their development, will be able to absorb a large part of that unemployed workforce. Another argument in favour of the establishment of this agency is that small and medium-sized enterprises have shown some flexibility and the ability to adapt quickly all, including the transition processes that are current with us. All of these reasons are that the agency should be established, it should be legally formed, because it should work as one of its own services to advise, assist and protect the development and interests of these companies. The Agency should also assist small and medium-sized enterprises in developing a programme for the placement of international assistance. So she doesn't have the exclusive right to share international assistance, but only to help small and medium-sized enterprises make a better plan for their business plans. Of course, the agency must provide this type of service impartially, meaning that all companies must be given equal chances of access to the Agency and its services. Also, the agency must not allow, of course, the higher position of each other than the other in the design of the programme. All of these were reasons, and there are many more that will appear in the very application of this law, for the creation of only central and regional agencies. However, I must say again that the DSS will not vote for this law unless the Government of the Republic of Serbia has abolished a regulation establishing all agencies and the Communications Bureau.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13809	The People's MP Milan Jankovic has the word, and after him, MP Djordje Mamula.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13810	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, members of the Government, it is true that small and medium-sized enterprises in developed countries represent a global, significant economic force that contributes to employment, creating and increasing profits, flexibility, economy, adaptation to rapid technological and market change, balance and increased efficiency of economic development. It is also true that the balance between large, small and medium-sized enterprises is an essential factor in the balance of the total economy and the degree of its efficiency, i.e. the condition of optimal use of the production factor. It is also true that an increasing number of developing countries need to establish small businesses involves in the model of developing their economies, learned primarily by the experience of developed countries. For these very reasons, this question was given a lot of attention in the preceding period. Although in incredible economic conditions -- primarily the embargo, the war in the environment, the bombing of Yugoslavia from the NATO Pact -- 370,000 small and medium-sized enterprises were formed, which, thanks to the Fund, were successfully encouraged by the Government, developed and represented a significant factor in the country's economic strength. That is why the SPS parliamentary group submitted a bill to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which is unfortunately rejected, early this year. The proposal was much clearer, but it was essentially a problem. The government's proposed proposal, apart from the details of the formation, i.e. the establishment of agencies, offers nothing more, as if the establishment of agencies is a purpose in itself, not an incentive to set up small and medium-sized enterprises. The state cost creates a new small company, more like a competitor to small businesses dealing with this business. The impression is that the establishment of the agency is in fact another body that will spend money on the budget, but party people from DOS will be hired, who are likely to look forward to the vote of this law. This will obviously be a shut-down agency, not an incentive for small and medium-sized enterprises. It will be very interesting who will run this agency because this proposed solution points to the possibility of recruiting small and medium-sized enterprises, Article 4 point 2. This issue has an even greater weight in these moments, given that workers are mass layoffs, that there is a lack of social programme, that the proposed law on labour is causing great anxiety of employees, when the existing ones are mass-closed, that they are becoming more and more difficult to live. I wonder how new businesses will form in such an economic environment. Since the DOS' pre-election promises of great foreign aid, there is obviously nothing, and at this point we need a lot of wisdom to get out of the deadlocks in which we are increasingly falling thanks to DOS. I would therefore suggest that we take seriously the proposal proposed by the SPS parliamentary group, which is much more complex in its content than the government's currently proposed proposal. Nothing has been done to create an environment for the resuscitation of small and medium-sized enterprises. On the contrary, a very restrictive law, an unfavourable course of marks, various tax laws, significantly destimulate the idea of opening new businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the SPS group, for the abovementioned reasons, will not vote for the solution offered. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13811	The Messenger of the people is George Mamul, and after him is the messenger of the people, Mic Ilic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13812	This bill, as you have heard, will not be able to support, given the already highlighted arguments that there is a regulation that cannot be abolished by this law, as the minister pointed out in his first address. On the other hand, since this agency will be engaged, as explained here in Article 7, consulting and marketing, there is one question: what will happen if these tips are not good, if consulting and marketing are bad? Whether the agency will conclude a contract with some insurance agency for damages to those to whom it gives bad or bad marketing, because this is not how the agency commits anything. The question arises what if the agency makes bad advice, because it has bad estimates, so bad forecasts, does not predict economic flows, there is no real information, and the users of the agency's services rely on that information, as it is said, consulting on marketing or management. From what I can see, the agency has no responsibility whatsoever. Of course, the earlier SPS proposal did not contain it, it was also very bad and therefore not accepted. Therefore, there is no reason to point out your suggestion as some god knows what a great example of reputation. And that was a bad suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13813	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word. Replica, please, Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13814	Dear colleagues, the draft law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, proposed by the SPS, was the subject of discussion by this parliament and the subject of fellow MPs' talks. We then heard no serious argument that could stand up to everything we talked about about the content of the law; no serious argument. Even then, we heard that the government was preparing its own special law, and now we've got the agency, and in the meantime, another agency was founded. None of the MPs, nor the government representatives, nor now, speaking about our law, have disproved any of what we have said, and what we think it is necessary for small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia to work, so that they can develop and that they can be better for Serbia and its citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13815	The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13816	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, as the legislator of this law, you said, "The Agency is founded to support, assist, advise, assist and protect the development and interests of small and medium-sized enterprises, which should help balance the economic structure and revive economic flows in the country. "The SPS and I, as a businessman, are not against the adoption of these legal solutions that will encourage, develop, establish and provide the possibility that in these new economic conditions, in the new space of Yugoslavia and Serbia, these new economic operators are developing. After the abolition of the great Yugoslavia and the decommissioning of our country, even these giants, who in the past were not able to be giants in a productive sense for the great Yugoslavia, companies with more than 20,000 employees, to cover this narrow market. For this reason and the latest situation that is happening in our premises, narrowing down Albania's territorial claims in Kosovo (today's results) will certainly prevent large economic operators in Kosovo from being in the second plan. For this reason, we also see perspective in small and medium-sized enterprises, not only for this reason, but also for reasons that are quite economically justified - with new resources, with new insights, a large number of unemployed, through employment in small and medium-sized enterprises, to develop and thus contribute and develop our country. However, here some MPs have said that small and medium-sized enterprises are as independent craftsmen's businesses and independent companies. No, it's not true. According to economic indicators, small and medium-sized enterprises are good works and social enterprises. In the economy, which has been in these conditions for the past years, these small and medium-sized enterprises have supported this country, supported our people and employed everything that was possible at that time. After NATO aggression, in developing businesses and restoring the country, which has been going on for the past two years, the contribution of small and medium-sized enterprises is large, along with giants who have accepted the small and medium-sized enterprises. Note the facilities that were built on the newly built part of the Danube, where, in the presence of large combinations, small and medium-sized enterprises contributed to the rapid and quality development and restoration of the country. I'm sorry Mr. Secretary came out, but he's sure to be passed on. There is talk of a law that is not a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. I can't understand that there's a law being passed on the establishment of an agency. I guess we should pass a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, on the establishment of these enterprises, on the acceleration of the development of these companies. It is, above all, the basis for us to be able to put into a new relationship all these economic entities that exist and those that need to be established. First, a law on small and medium-sized enterprises and their development needs to be passed, a financial structure to accelerate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, primarily through the banking system, through other economic relations, through the frameworks that the law should contain, and then form an agency. Here we are discussing some groundless goal, which is to form an agency. I have to tell you that, say, the Government of the Republic of Serbia shut down the Country Reconstruction Directorate 15 days ago, and formed the Civil Directorate, and that no one in the public may know it, or may know it. But the Construction Directorate is linked to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, where there are still certain means to develop these relations that are formed in the part. First, a law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises needs to be passed. Well, if that bill of ours wasn't good, then I'm sure we should pass some other law. Here it all comes down to forming an agency. There's no need to form just an agency, because it has no basis. She deals only with consulting affairs, management, to tell you something in a simple Serbian language - by selling fog. The Berlin air and the London fog are something that was imaginary here and there's no need to be sold here. According to the vice president of the federal government in one of his interviews, the federal administration has 10,000 workers. This troubled people, as you say, and so do we, because NATO aggression has forced us to say so, certainly cannot withstand a new force on the villa, the formation of a new agency, with people who will sell all of this to us, to those who need to work and to produce, above all, industry, agriculture, and especially in construction, where we need to find the most space to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. Most MPs from the position and opposition consider that there are already certain organisations, which are agencies formed by the Government, the Development Fund, the Chamber of Commerce and others, so there is no need to pass this law but to withdraw it and to do a law that will speed up the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13817	The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13818	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is not only completely unnecessary, but insignificant and quite pointless. Namely, the obligation to pass such a law stems from the adoption of acts at a session of the Federal Assembly on 27 September, both on a shortcut, and stems from an agreement signed by the Federal Government with the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association for Development. This law is de facto written by a certain Ellen Peterson, who has nothing to do with this state or this people, and this law is not given to our people, our citizens, our businesses. There's no money to invest here, there's no money here that you're going to give to our farmers for tractors, as some have said, or to our workers. There's no such thing. This is where the fog is sold. They're selling a supposed mind. That's where the $470,000 was put, out of the six million they got. To make use of it, you have to pass a law like this. That's it and that's it. But our people and our country don't need it that way. It'll only serve to take and launder a pair of consulting firms. Here, we have one here in the next building, in the number of 16 Serbian rulers, if I'm not mistaken. I think it's called "Deloit Touch." I don't know what kind of, I mean big connections with that firm, and by chance in the same building where the Ministry of Privatisation is, he had a minister of privatisation. It's not going to work for anything else. It'll serve to have someone come in there and they tell him he's going to transgender-fangs now, and how consulting firms from abroad will launder money through donors, etc. Nothing else and nothing else will serve. In the Agency’s very activity in Article 7, from 1st to 7th position, it is evident that the Agency performs exclusively consulting and management of tasks and nothing more. So, there's no money for production, there's no money for our people, there's no money for investment, no one's thinking of it, but as Ellen Peterson said, it has to be done, so the Serbian Parliament has to adopt it. Who's going to vote for it will find himself, even if he gets two statements a week on Pink TV or because he gets more space in the paper, it doesn't matter, but that's how it's going to be solved. As far as we Serbian radicals are concerned, we won't support it, and I apologize for overstepping my time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13819	You're not out of time. The word has a People's MP, Hranislav Peric, and the next is National MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13820	Ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Chairman, the honourable members of the government, is now on the agenda of the draft law establishing agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. What we got in the material doesn't look like a law. At the previous session of the Assembly, such a law was on the agenda, much better and comprehensive, but it was not voted just because it was proposed by the Socialists, and it was the head of the Socialist Parliament Club, Prof. Dr. Branislav Ivkovic. The bill that we have received consists of 15 members, on two pages containing how the agency is formed as, as elected by the Management Board, the Supervisory Board, the Director of the Agency, and the establishment of regional agencies. What brings the goal of forming an agency -- except for increasing the state administration and nothing else. By setting up more agencies, the government is trying to run all the affairs through agencies, which it forms, and which correspond to the government for its work. Maybe forming an agency for another time and another economic environment. Should we increase the number of agencies and place a burden and another imposition on and such an impoverished economy, when businesses do not work, when the number of unemployed is increasing, when the number of employees to fill the budget from which the agency is to be financed is reduced. Maybe it was supposed to go in reverse -- first to train all businesses to work, that the economy has good results, to get the workers back into the halls, to make more employment in production. Conditions would be created for the upgrade of the successful economy and the formation of the agency, i.e. an increase in the state administration, which the economy could monitor and sustain. The proposed law is incomplete and there is nothing other than the establishment and selection of the Agency. The law left behind members who would fully regulate the entire work of the Agency. The only thing scheduled is for the Agency to be financed from the budget. There is no fund that could help small and medium-sized enterprises. It is also not provided for under what conditions and how businesses could use these funds. So far, in practice, businesses have addressed the Serbian Development Fund. Will it continue to function in the following way - to first address the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, to transfer the Agency to the Fund for Development of Serbia to pass a programme in the company, but the Agency would probably have its percentage and share. Finally, since this law is incomplete, incomplete, I suggest it withdraws from the procedure and makes a good law, which could be in the function of small and medium-sized enterprises. The proposed law on support for small and medium-sized enterprises by the Socialists would cover a complete problem that arises in this part. The proposed law you refused had over 30 members, the fund also predicted. The law that you have proposed has 15 members and provides for only a choice of funding. The presentation of the promoter, Minister Vlahovic, makes it clear that new jobs will be reached in this way, and there is a minister deeply right, because by forming the Agency in agencies you will hire new people who will be burdened by companies and these countries.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13821	The word has a folk MP, Bozidar Vucurovic, and the next is MP Dragan Tomic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13822	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly sorry that there is no minister, because otherwise this is the first law in the history of Serbian parliamentaryism to be impoverished. In a minute and a half, as long as I have time, I can't help but tell him a song. The song goes like this: The agency is a fraud old, except for the obligation and rights it also has a jury bill for money laundering and does not operate according to regulations. The funds for what she's doing will have to, as Article 4 says, come out of the pockets of the citizens and lie in orderly. Article 5 gives rise to the impression, the form of which the hair rises, certain companies of the concept, which are only companies from DOS. The agency has authorities, boards and directors, and supervisors on either side, yet there is still a missing KFOR representative. The board of directors of five members, for the program and for the plans of various, are members of key clans, which will empty our pockets. The Supervisory Board has a task, when it looks at the annual state of affairs, to say who got the bat, who sewed, the wings, or something less. The director has important tasks -- from hollow to empty, to make up false reports, not to be seen as much as he steals. It's a general act, and it's a fact, it helps develop a company, someone's hand, someone's elbow, someone's horn, someone's candle. When home-made experts do not know the solution professionally, great money will be allocated to foreigners on parity manually. If there's not enough money, for the ministerial and other corners, we agencies are looking for new ones, wherever there's a suitable corner. In Kragujevac, Raška, Stalaæ, Novi Sad or Ruma, Zajecar, Nis and Kač, in every village, even in the forest. It would be, but really, wonderful to have the law come in on the eighth day, but if it were retroactive, then it would only be without fault. If those of you who are growing up alone didn't get out of the sauce, our budget, the pit of the pit, the payments for DOS development.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13823	Thank you, Mr. Vuchurovic, for this lovely recital. The word is made by MP Dragan Tomic, and after that, MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13824	Dear gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here I am asked if I'm going to sing something. I won't be safe. Mr. President, could you ask this yellow group not to throw? Gentlemen People's MPs, as always these past months, are constantly talking about how the opposition is not allowed to pass important laws in the Assembly. Here, we have one of the so-called. important laws that will significantly resolve the situation in the Serbian economy. In addition to that famous regulation, which is organised in a certain way by a number of agencies that will deal with certain areas above all, I would say, by managing the Serbian economy, and not by something else, we now have a law that is not significantly different from the bill we have given, but represents a shortened version, however, in a kind of distorted way, of that proposal by the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. And, as I understood this proposal, it's very simple, it's obvious that there is one place to put together and collect the possibility of co-ordination and co-operation with banks, and I heard that it is necessary, as previous speakers have said, to have good business plans, or ideas for business, so, in addition, when it comes to business ideas, you can also deliver the appearance of your house or picture from your daughter's wedding. Since every wedding has a lot of pictures, we didn't understand, and for the sake of the public, you should tell us -- whether from the wedding a picture of a singer, dressed in foreign exchanges, or a picture of a roasted ox, which represents some Serbian tradition. I guess this is a serious topic and we need to talk seriously about it, because obviously, there is much that is important for the Serbian economy in this topic too. But I have no impression that anyone here cares about the Serbian economy, given what state it is at this time. These days we have a chance to hear about these historic successes on all fronts, and this last one that came from Paris -- historic success, and, above all, one fact of all -- it doesn't show anywhere that we'll be much nicer, because we owe 900 dollars per capita again. They say we're in charge. It's not us, it's a debt from the past Yugoslavia, the former federal Yugoslavia, but we didn't pay it back, because we should've done it, too, so you'd be easily in charge today. Well, every government must carry a certain burden. There's one fact left, everyone's vague -- we heard one sentence last night, I guess he should speak up for that expert spirit, the press asked -- what about the war damage, will anyone ask for it? He says it's not their fault, neither are we. I guess it's this people and all those victims in Barvarin, Nis, and who knows where in Serbia, who died during that period, and no one's going to ask for any dollar for that war damage. That's why we're talking about these laws, which won't help us very much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13825	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13826	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you've given a better explanation for this proposal than you've given for the 2001 budget. But well, Mr. Vlahovicu, your exposure to this matter in high school, direction-management, would certainly be assessed by a high rating of five, and as a student you would probably be rated by the same assessment. Mr. Vlahovicu, you have been educated by your friends from the West, both in the political and economic spheres. Don't take the formula of work and life from others, because I won't, and most of you probably don't want to be Krauts, they don't want to be French, they don't want to be English, we want to be Serbian. There is a Fund for the Development of Serbia, whose director and chairman of the Management Board am the Prime Minister, Mr Zoran Djindjic. These funds, ladies and gentlemen, were intended to help small and medium-sized enterprises, as was aided by the famous company Lutra (also known Serbian Minister, Mr Dusan Mihajlovic) of a million marks, as an undeveloped small company. In order for this agency to come to life, it is necessary to make the first privatisation of socio-state enterprises, and only then create space for this agency, in order not to create machinations and crime, as it has been so far. To launder money, invested in similar companies and in the case of Lutra, you propose this bill on agencies on small and medium-sized enterprises. Another one of your scams is that this agency is funding itself -- I don't think we're kindergarten kids. I'd like to inform you that the Zorke Holding Company's trade union today entered the general strike, precisely because of this bill, because the government wants to destroy a giant like this, a model, perhaps unique in Serbia. We, Serbian radicals, are against this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13827	The word is by MP Dusan Cvetkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13828	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed fellow MPs, is before us again the draft law on the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, following a sudden 11-day break from the start of the debate. We were only informed about this sudden break through state television, because we were not notified of the session until Monday afternoon. Because of the incompetence of the assembly administration, or because it doesn't seem to have anyone who at least has a church calendar in the house, it seems to me that the debate on this law will not be completed this week either, because tomorrow night, almost half of Serbia gathers in homes, to welcome the Council of the Holy Archangel Michael, Arangelovday, or, as my Leskovci say, St. Arangel, so I simply don't believe that we will have a sufficient number of MPs together. But not to worry about the president of this house, but to go back to the agency law. For the second time in a short time, we, dear fellow Members, are returning to the problems of small and medium-sized enterprises. For the first time, however, it was a comprehensive legislative proposal to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, proposed by the SPS parliamentary group. The legislative proposal, which was in the assembly procedure, came as a fruit of the work of the expert team for small and medium-sized enterprises of the previous Ministry of Science and Technology, which offered small businesses more than 800 certified business programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises. The previous government's programmes were dominated by programmes from agriculture, these 156 mehratrerading and engineering - 129, food industry - 80 etc. But the legal proposal came across a sharp DOS blade, and in this assembly procedure it was smoothly rejected by the DOS majority. Today, there is only one piece of that law on the agenda, and it is the law on the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This bill is nothing new. It is the fruit of the pressure of the DSS towards the DOS that the Regulation, or the wild establishment of the agency, legally official and thus this fog, which they offer to small businesses, practically reduces the legally regulated frameworks. But this bill doesn't offer anything to small and medium-sized enterprises, it doesn't give them any help. What he essentially regulates - he regulates the practical creation of i.e. the legislation of another large administration, which will stick to the blood flow of small and medium-sized enterprises, to begin sucking out the necessary food from them, for the large team of DOS obedients they have found, or to find, their foster home in this agency with the property of a legal person, based in Belgrade, or in the regions, and that there good DOS people can live and provide existence. The Agency's establishment funds are provided from the budget of the Republic of Serbia, from donor funds, and will be provided mainly by small and medium-sized enterprises for its work. By defining Articles 6 and 7 the provision of professional support to users, as well as the activities, consulting and management, this legislative proposal is practically defining that the Agency will take money from small businesses and medium-sized enterprises. Starting from the fact that regional agencies have been organised so far, practically, located in regional chambers of commerce and engaged in them are people from professional staff, it turns out that the Agency will also charge the services that are done practically in chambers. Since the key bodies of the Agency, the chairman of the Management and Supervisory Board and their members, as well as the director of the Agency, are appointed and resolved by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it is obvious that this law on the Agency is being passed so that the Government can have full influence and direct influence in this area, so that something does not happen by chance that the Government does not know how to go. Finally, once again, the Serbian government's legislative proposal, as my southerners say, wants to build a small company that will start small and medium-sized enterprises. The Serbian government did not want to anticipate any funds, no fund to support and set up these small and medium-sized enterprises, while the Agency for its work envisaged that it would be financed from small and medium-sized enterprises, which would allegedly help them by offering only fog. Talks with small businesses, potential investors, craftsmen's associations and small businesses in Leskovac are a major observation just because there are no funds, there are no funds to encourage and develop small and medium-sized enterprises. There, fellow MPs, these are the reasons why the SPS parliamentary group will not vote for this legislative proposal, but will be against it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13829	The word has been given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic, followed by MP Joca Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13830	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in these minutes and a half, as far as I'm concerned, I'll try to point out a few questions that this law, if not entirely, generates, at least throws into the first place. We have heard here that there is already an Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, which was set up against the constitution by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm interested in why at this point we don't have at least one report, as information, that we can find out from it what the Agency has done in the past. The second question is the responsibility of this agency, if it is taken into account that the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, the sector or portfolio for small and medium-sized enterprises, already exists, which should carry out the same tasks prescribed by this agency. There are also chambers of commerce, i.e. the Republic Chamber of Commerce and regional chambers of commerce, which should deal with these same problems that this agency needs to address. I'm afraid it's not in that folk, a lot of midwives, and you know what happens to kids in that case. The next issue is specifically related to this proposal, which is the issue of the Agency's establishment and work. In fact, Article 4 speaks of the Agency's means of setting up the Agency, where point 1 is the first point of view: the funds are provided from the Republic of Serbia's buffers. There is nowhere to be found which means and what is the amount of funds. So, the rest of this is someone else's arbitrary determination, I don't know who's going to determine that amount of funds. The second question is the question of the Agency's work, and I end up, and under point 1. these are: donations, contributions, sponsorships, etc. Those funds are uncertain, uncertain, so we can't rely on them. In accordance with point 2 of this Article, the Commission shall adopt delegated acts in accordance with the procedure laid down in this Article. Does this mean that this agency will charge its work to the service companies, to which it helps. If so, then it is too much, because these companies are already burdened by the intrusions of chambers and other entities in this society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13831	The word is by MP Joca Todorovic, followed by Minister Vlahovic. Please be very brief, because the time of 45 minutes for your parliamentary group is almost up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13832	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Minister, since the time is short, I would then use it to ask a few questions that are not clear to me from the explanation, although it may be said that it looks like that people's -- it's in the window, but it's not in the store, or it's not in the law. I do not doubt good intentions, but the question arises, if the legislator follows the logic that it is not necessary to pass a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but that it is sufficient to do so only through the establishment of this agency, will we then be in a position to establish, say, agencies to support the development of large enterprises. As it is known, there are no small ones without large ones, it is the essence of the functioning of small and medium-sized enterprises. In general, the support given to these companies should, in my opinion, now be accepted by a large number of workers, who will inevitably lose their jobs for any reason; technological, economic, organisational, restructuring or privatisation of large systems. That's one thing. Secondly, it is not disputed that there is also a law that supports small and medium-sized enterprises, even through advocacy, but a basic issue that is being imposed, and we have been able to hear this today: from which funds will be financed by the incentive and development of small and medium-sized enterprises? They're absolutely right all those colleagues who think that donations and assistance can't be a long-term vision of support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, regardless of how we have such experiences, maybe in the environment, and I don't think it's a good comparison with countries like Ireland or Scotland. They belong to highly developed countries, and it's a different story entirely. The third question I would like to ask the minister: I did not understand enough why small and medium-sized enterprises, which are by their size and by the criteria of the Accounting Act, are exempt from the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. As far as I understand the essence of these related companies, they can be held, but they are independent legal, commercial entities on the market and are registered in the court register. I ask: will, for example, one such small or medium-sized enterprise when it consults the Aid Agency be rejected, in the sense that I cannot provide him with professional assistance or all of these consulting and management work provided for by this agency law. To allow my colleague Slobodan Pavlovic, I would like to complete my presentation here. Is there two more minutes or no more?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13833	The word has Minister Vlahovic, followed by MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13834	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, I really didn't expect that we would be conducting a debate on a technical law that enters into a part called pure political philosophy, which, I must admit, my ministry's capacities are not enough to give proper interpretation. What exactly is this about? If a potential entrepreneur enters an adventure, called the creation of a new company, it is necessary that: (a) has an idea and (b) that he has money that will finance such a defined idea. The experiences of all countries have shown that all projects to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, concrete projects, have just failed because this first part, segment of the start of a business venture, so the idea was not sufficiently elaborated. In what way? It seems very often that a job or an idea is quite good, even making a so - called one. the plan, the business palace, that the appropriate results, and essentially the risk is not measured in the best possible way. It seems that the potential entrepreneur knows all the legal, economic interpretations and that he understands how he can turn innovation into practice, into a concrete project, so behind that, when the whole story starts to take place in real life, it turns out it's not good. So, the whole complete task, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency and individual regional agencies, and I'll explain to you what their relationship is, is just to work on this first part, to reduce the risk of entering a business venture by defining a unique methodology for the development of business plans, which will work on interpreting economic regulations that, among other things, even small and medium-sized enterprises, will develop innovative incubators, which will define the methodology of education. So it's the Agency's task to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, not to finance, not to give money. Giving money from state-type institutions is a return to a centralist, administrative economy. This is neither the goal nor the idea of this government, to develop a centralised, administrative economy, but rather to develop a market-type economy. If there is a project, and behind it is a business plan, behind which there is an entrepreneur who is a fully clear environment in which he will realise his idea, the task of banks, financial organisations, including the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, is to finance such a project, primarily based on rentability indicators. Therefore, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency will not finance projects in the area of small and medium-sized enterprises, but will provide all necessary consulting, service management, interpretation of legal regulations, development of incubator initiatives, etc. And that funding is done by banks, by the Development Fund. We're not developing a new financial institution with this. When we talk about the grant law, we are talking about donations for the functioning of the central agency, which is tasked with methodologically discussing the development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises, defined by this ministry, i.e. the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What's the relationship between regional agencies? The central agency won't set up a regional agency. Regional agencies, gentlemen, are already in place. They are founded by the European Agency for Reconstruction. They are founded by the government of the Republic of Serbia together with entrepreneurs, with chambers of commerce, founded by associations of entrepreneurs on the ground. The relationship between central and regional agencies is primarily a contractual relationship, which is that a single development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises must be implemented on the ground. Because if there is no unique methodology defined by the central agency, then we will repeat the cases of many countries in transition, where the idea of development of small and medium-sized enterprises was compromised, where people entered the "greet into strawberries" into projects and lost what little property they had and what they invested as collateral. So regional agencies will establish direct entrepreneurs, but there will be this relationship between central and regional agencies. The next thing I want to tell you is that it is true that the government, based on its regulation, has, among other things, established a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency. It was established by a government regulation, operationally operated at the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, with the idea that we should not wait for the law on a central agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in February, but rather to start working already in February. It is true that the report on the work of the Ministry of Business and Privatisation also included the work of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, which has so far delivered to the relevant assembly committees twice. In August and September, MPs sitting on the Committee on Industry had an opportunity to discuss the report. However, this central agency will have a far greater number of competencies. It was founded in a moment not to wait, to work on it with one concrete project, and here is a precise definition of the responsibility of the central agency. And in order not to create legal confusion, we at the government last Thursday, at the initiative of this ministry, proposed an amendment to that regulation. The amendment defined that the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, established under the Government Regulation, would cease its work when the Assembly passed this law. In other words, there will be no two central agencies, but only one established under this law when the Assembly adopts it. Where'd you get the funds to start? Gentlemen, in the Budget Law, which you adopted in March of the month 2001, funds were defined for the establishment of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. Thus, there is a precise figure that will serve as a founding role, i.e. a founding tool by the government. And, one more thing: Mrs. Ellen Peterson, mentioned here, was recently the head of the World Bank Office, not writing this law, and it is not true that this law was written so that the donor funds could be directed. This law is written so that we would have institutions for one adequate, effective policy-making of small and medium-sized enterprises, not mixing, on the one hand, financial institutions and, on the other hand, institutions that should support the realization of ideas. The Development Fund will certainly fund, unlike previous practices, although we've heard different claims here, but believe me, it's not true. Unlike practices until 2000, when the Development Fund exclusively redirected its resources to large holding companies, which had less or less social status to put an end to social fires, the Development Fund will be a dominant portion of money coming from privatisation for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. And that everything is not so black, that among other things there are results, work and economy, please don't use any more September data on industrial production. Take the October ones. You will find that industrial production rose by 10% in October compared to September, that industrial production lagged by 1.4% compared to the same period last year. We expect that by the end of the year industrial production will exceed the production achieved last year, which, given the level of social subsidies that are completely non-resonal and non-economically divided in the past and in view of the efficiency of this budget, is a major success. Still considering that we've gone into transition this year. So we're going to have a real growth of gross social product by more than 5%. Due to the growth of industrial production, we will end this year's ten-year disinvestment chain that exists in this country, if you want to know what it means, it's a loss of substance. I'll remind you that since 1991, this country has been a waste of $1.3 billion a year because the economy of today's midwives has been pushed into a total seal, which some other interests have been more important, which, by the way, has not been realized either. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13835	He has the word National Envoy Natasa Jovanovic, followed by MP Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13836	That it is not a political and empty story, Mr Vlahovic, also says that, on 27 September of this year, the Federal Assembly passed a bill after an emergency procedure, or a verification of the donation that you received from the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Association for Assistance in the privatisation process of the SRJ. This amount of six million dollars has been clearly defined and it is precisely specified how much funds go to establish such an agency as this is under the proposal of this law. However, since I don't have a lot of time (mind, because of your DOS democracy), I have to tell you that even the former owners of small and medium-sized enterprises didn't need such advice from alleged mid-terms from the West, by your ministry; they've done well, but many of them will hardly come up with a positive balance at the end of this year because of the tax policy you voted on at the beginning of the year. Something more about the law itself, according to the amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13837	The People's MP Slobodan Pavlovic has the word, followed by MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13838	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have already been warned that it is time for us to take part in this debate. The reason why the MPs of the SPS in this assembly will not support, or will vote against this law, is why they said before Prof. Dr. Ivkovic, as head of our parliamentary group, as well as all the other MPs of the SPS, so there is no reason to repeat all this and there is no reason not to say that I, as a member of this parliamentary group, join their evaluations and join the decision not to support this law. In addition to what they pointed out in the previous debate, let me list a number of reasons why I think we should act differently and, instead of the Agency proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, adopt a system law on support and development of small-scale enterprises as proposed. Let me remind you he's a member of 72. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia envisions the obligation of the Republic to participate and to create policies and measures to direct and encourage development in general, as well as in this area. So, not that the marketing agency works, but that it creates conditions for its development. Secondly, that the new reform laws that were passed in 1990, as you heard, created conditions for the formation and large number of small and medium-sized enterprises; to remind you that there were 20,000 companies in 1990, and that these activities were created and opened 180,000, as many as there are now. Let me remind you that in those 180,000 businesses there are about 200,000 shops, where over half a million people were employed. Fifthly, in these companies, there are over 35% of the basic assets and over 25% of the own capital that generates our economy in general. Sixthly, the participation of these companies in the social product of our Republic is about 17%, and if we add the private sector of agriculture as a very important factor in the process, it is even 35%. Let me remind you that after the aggression and destruction of many businesses, infrastructure facilities were lost over 80,000 people, that precisely by the measures of the then government and the claim that was led, some 650 new businesses were formed, and around 10,000 workers were employed. And not only that, with these measures and because small and medium-sized enterprises are very flexible, they transform quickly, they form quickly, they cooperate quickly with a large economy, they employ about 30,000 workers. The new tax laws passed by this assembly, also on the government's proposal, in fact have abolished many benefits and many reliefs and reliefs that small and medium-sized enterprises had until then, especially those that were newly established. The 10th, existing laws and other regulations do not provide any support for the work and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, so the new law is certainly inevitable. Let me also say that normative conditions for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises are not within the scope of any ministry or any other government organisation as it is so far. Twelve, what most MPs, not only of the SPS, but of the DSS, have said here -- that we can discuss in one parliament the formation of an agency when we already have an Agency formed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Minister says -- we don't, and I trust Mr. Minister, and it would be nice if we had all at the bench right now of the Serbian government's decision to stop working by adopting this law... Where does it say? (Alexandar Vlahovic from the post provides the MP Slobodan Pavlovic, who is behind the speaker - "The Official Messenger". ) This is now something, the Regulation amending the Regulation on the General Secretariat and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, listen carefully: - In the Regulation on the General Secretariat (this doesn't count at the time), and other services of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Official Messenger of the Republic of Slovenia, number 15/2001, Article 6 is deleted. Article 2 - Rights and obligations of funds, items, archives as well as employees of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises (hereinafter: Agency) will be taken over by the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises and Entrepreneurship established by law. The Agency shall cease to work on the day of the start of the work of the Republic Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. Article 3- This Regulation shall enter into force on the eighth day following that of its publication. Vice President, Joseph Kasa. "I'll keep this. Let me finish - so then I give up point twelve after Mr. Minister brought in the paper in which these arguments stopped. This, of course, does not question my basic idea and the idea of the SPS MPs that, instead of the agency that will deal with what is written, consulting and distribution of funds, and I, by the way, very much respect the arguments and the warm defence of Minister Vlahovic... That's what I'd have to do if I were a minister for you, because how are you going to get back to Djindjic's government, he's going to relieve you if you don't support him. I understand that. But I still think we really need an agency to form...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13839	Please bring the end, time's up three or four minutes ago.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13840	I'm saying this as an MP, and when I get here, maybe we'll make some other agencies and some other laws. Therefore, we need to form a law on support for small and medium-sized enterprises and not to be budgetary, and not, as it is said, centralist, on the contrary, create conditions for both local self-government authorities and the highest state bodies to the government to participate in the previously appropriate funds. In this way we will increase production, thus increasing the exports of goods and services, increasing the employment of young and professional personnel and thus ensuring the substitution of imports of many goods, thus ensuring long-term business co-operation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13841	Mr. Pavlovic, I ask you to bring the end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13842	In the end, I propose to Minister Vlahovic a fair and correct offer, that based on everything, because it is obvious that this law has no support in parliament, you withdraw this law, return our law, even under your company and solve all problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13843	The word has a folk MP Petar Jojic, followed by Stevan Kesjejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13844	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, listening to the minister, Serbia seems to have become America. But I don't think this is America, this is occupied and devastated Serbia. The time at which many laws are passed is inflation of regulations, as was the case with the law on justice (five laws were passed instead of one law). Now we will have inflation of regulations here, as the minister said there are already regional agencies, regional chambers and that there is a government agency and that it would stop after all this if this law was passed. What are we going to get with this law? This law will give us something worth more than it's worth. We'll get a bunch of bureaucratic red tape and hiring more administrative workers. So we're going to get the cost of the state, because it's going to take hundreds of secretaries, hundreds of board presidents, hundreds of computers, hundreds of offices, thousands of square meters, and not to talk about the money needed for these agencies. Therefore, there is absolutely no reasonable reason for this small and medium-sized enterprise to be formed. That's why I suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13845	The word is made by MP Stevan Kesejić. In the meantime, let me inform you that the session of the Committee on Foreign Relations will be held on the second floor, starting at 1400 hours.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13846	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have here another law, an unnatural law, proposed by the incompetent minister, Mr. Vlahovic. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's promise that a group of experts will propose laws to this parliament suggests the fact that ministers are not only experts, but that they do not behave as they do with certain functions. The involvement of foreigners who will only take money, selling their brains, says that ministers are not consistent and that they are not worthy of what the prime minister has promised us here. Business entrepreneurs don't need brains and education. They know exactly what to do. They need material, financial support. Therefore, I believe that this law on the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is merely the legalisation of the wild agencies that the Government has so far and that this law should be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13847	The word is by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13848	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the draft law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, which we are discussing today, has only one flaw, and that is that our government has not previously formed an agency for the development of agencies. He probably expects that in the future, because so many of these agencies have formed regulations, we will be buried with those agencies in the next period of work of the Serbian Parliament. Since much is said about this agency, there's no need to look back on it. I just want to say that the elections in Kosovo and Metohija have passed so that tomorrow's adviser and associate Slobodan Milosevic, Nebojsa Covic, has overcome... (President: Please return to the topic. )......................................................................................................... his teacher in Kosovo and Metohija. Such electoral theft and electoral manipulation have been carried out to overcome all election thefts so far. Multi-annual practice of election theft of the SPS in Kosovo and Metohija continues today DOS... (President: Mr Kragovic, I give you a warning because, despite my warning, you speak out of the question. You've got a minute and a half, and you're talking off topic. )......................................................................................................... Because it's the only way to stay in power. But I'm ordering you, gentlemen of the dosmania, in stealing are short legs. I think this is the beginning of your end.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13849	The word has a folk MP Branislav Ivković - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13850	Ladies and gentlemen, the SRS MP was just talking about the election theft of Socialists in Kosovo and Metohija. The elections held in Kosovo and Metohija during the election of presidential candidates, Mr Vojislav Seselj and Milan Milutinovic, went through all the controls and evidence that there was no theft. The second thing is that Mr. UNMIK and KFOR admitted at 1800 hours that only five or ten per cent of Serbian citizens in Kosovo and Metohija came out and that in the end it turned out to be 50%. This election theft, which was done on November 17th, we're just gonna talk. (Tomislav Nikolic: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13851	Mr. Nikolic, you have no right to a replica. (Tomislav Nikolic: He mentioned the president of our party. () Yes, but you are not mentioned, you are not offended, and your messenger has also caused a replica. No basis for replication It doesn't matter that it's not you. [[Tomislav Nikolic: I did not challenge the replica.]] It's just that your group isn't mentioned at all. (Tomislav Nikolic: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. Here you go. You have no right to a replica, and you have to talk about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13852	You must give me the right to reply, because Article 98(2) says that if offensive expressions refer to a parliamentary group, or a parliamentary party, whose MPs belong to that parliamentary group, on behalf of the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to reply. (President: Your group is not mentioned at all. ) Prof. Dr. Vojislav Seselj is an SRS biopresidential candidate. If Mr. Ivkovic comes out here and says there was no theft in those elections, I think I have the right to answer. You can protect that theft by not giving me the right to a replica, but behind us is huge material, huge litigation that we've brought before the courts. There is evidence behind us that the Shiplars responded with 100% in villages where our police tanks couldn't get in. That's what I have to answer, whether you like it or not. You may not like it because you apply the same principle, that you applied the same principle in these elections. But, you know, once stealing, always stealing, one principle, always principle. Mr. Ivkovic, it is not true that there was no theft of elections in Kosovo and Metohija. I appreciate a lot of people in your MP group, but anyone who says you didn't steal the election for Milan Milutinovic is lying. You stole, and here's how I give you that shame back.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13853	The word has been made by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13854	Mr. Minister, since I have a little time, I'd like to offer you some practical advice. You see what this is about -- this agency that's being founded, it's more or less important. However, the lack of people from the economy should be established on the basis of a founding role, so that companies that would have that founding role would have the right to manage. What does that mean? That's what I'm experiencing -- the agency should be a related association of some firms. For example, if a business in Yugoslavia finds a job abroad, will the agency find a project, will it find an investor in our bank or a foreign bank? One more thing - the proposal is for the founding stake to be $20,000, a membership fee of $10,000, with the agency having the obligation and the right to monitor all international competitions and to connect these people from the economy with people abroad. I'd like to ask you a question -- I don't know that in one city of business, industry works 50%, let alone in that city where 50% of the employment capacity industry works is 100%. I don't know that yet.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13855	Mr. Ivkovic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13856	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I apologize for dragging you into this story, but since a representative of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group has been given the right to replicate what I've been saying, I just want to say that everyone has a certain right to represent their truth and has every opportunity through court cases to verify the justification of their views. But we certainly wouldn't be talking about this today if it wasn't for what happened on November 17th, when we were able to hear all of us at 6:00 p.m. data on the dates in Gracanica, Kosovo Mitrovica and Zvecan, and then we'd be very surprised to see that it increases by 8 or 5% in just two hours to 40% or 45%. Otherwise, that 40 or 45% is half of half. So, only 25% of Kosovo citizens and the Metohija of non-Albanian nationality have even given support to events that lead directly, apparently, to independent Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13857	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13858	The agencies are another administrative obstacle for the business of existing small and medium-sized enterprises, especially for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. That's what the minister plastically explained to us using model A and B. He said, who has the idea, on the other hand, has the money, and that's where the agency will help. How? Yes, that idea, with the help of this money that this individual, the agency, is moving into something that will be realistic and will be the profit of the one who invests his funds. The agency supports the minister's story that the lack of the agency in Bosnia and Herzegovina has ruined the project. That's not the main reason, Minister. The main and basic reason for the collapse of small and medium-sized enterprises in Bosnia and Herzegovina is that it is the wish of those who invested in medium and small enterprises, it is so called. Money laundering through the opening of medium and small enterprises, and what you say is that this is going to be a hat, there's a famous one -- first the cap goes, and then the capers go. In this case, we see a caper under that hat, and we don't know who's going to take it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13859	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Gordan Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13860	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, so far you've proposed a dozen laws that have been passed through the assembly procedure. It's the same case with the law that's on the agenda today. The Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency Act is just one step in the running attitude of all your laws. It's time for the procedure to pass the imaginary path as soon as possible, and that's for him to adopt. You'll adopt him today, and what happens next. It can't be any further or worse. You expect that after this law in Serbia, friends of our small and medium-sized enterprises will come across and bring in fresh capital. Tell me one company, one name that has so far invested its capital, even in the smallest firm, a company that came from the countries that bombed us. No such people, no such capital. We, Serbian radicals, are against this legislative proposal for the reason that this proposal doubles some competences. I'll list some members - one, two, three, etc.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13861	The word has a folk MP Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Parliament MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13862	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the opening statement, Minister Vlahovic said it is risky to leave small and medium-sized enterprises to themselves. The opinion of us Serbian radicals is just the other way around. Leave them to yourselves, they are the most flexible economic entities in our society. So far, you have only contributed to the collapse of 7,000 small enterprises, 2,000 private carriers, 300 shipping companies, 3,000 independent trades and 1,500 independent trades have been closed. We'll obviously have more agencies. Now there are 11 of them, and why haven't we passed the laws for all 11? We also expect an agency on agencies and what is fundamentally a message -- there is no money in this agency. I am sending this message because, even from some MPs, we have been able to hear that peasants will be able to obtain loans from this agency for the purchase of tractors, for investments and so on. All we have here is education or education of educators. There's no money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13863	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, followed by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13864	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is perfectly normal for opposition MPs to criticise the government's draft laws, to defend these laws, and it is perfectly normal for MPs to try, as they think, to correct the law, to give the law the form they consider to be the best. It is not normal for MPs to blackmail the government in such a way as they say - if you lift any earlier provisions, we will vote for that law. That wasn't really happening until now. It was to say that if you do not accept our amendments, we will not vote in favour of the law. An MP comes out and says -- the law is good, it needs Serbia, and we think that such a law must be passed, but we will be abstentioned and we will not vote for the law unless the government withdraws some earlier decisions. As far as the Serbian Radical Party is concerned, our position is also clear in the presentation of our MPs and deputy presidents of the parliamentary group, which is why we believe that this law should not be accepted, but what the Democratic Party of Serbia is doing now shows us that in other cases it is also about some forms of blackmail and that the bickering between the Democratic Party and the Democratic Party of Serbia is making Serbia more and more evil.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13865	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13866	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic is probably an expert on privatisation, first of all because he spent about two million marks on marketing his ministry under the password "start for property", but he is obviously a trainee for the economy, because if you study this proposal of the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, you can see for yourself. First of all, if you see Article 13, where it says that in order to carry out certain professional tasks in its jurisdiction, agencies can engage other legal, physical, domestic and foreign persons, you see that Article 13 and that it raises doubts about the use of budgets, and the planning of new funds is also how the budget is misused. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia has enough experts to carry out entrusted tasks, so the establishment of the agency only doubles the same jobs, so there is no need to establish new bodies, primarily the board of directors, the Supervisory Board. The very notion of small and medium-sized enterprises has already been defined in the Accounting Act and in the Company Act, so it does not need to be introduced at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13867	We have exhausted this debate in principle in the part in which the MPs participate. Does anyone else come forward from a member of the Parliament's word groups? Mr. Ivkovic, come in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13868	Ladies and gentlemen, in the opening address, I gave the essence of the position and importance of developing small and medium-sized enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. Now several comments on Mr Vlahovic's presentation, a resolute minister from the government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as on what is important and left out, are under the law. Prior to that, this "Official Messenger" only appeared when Bane Ivkovic, as an MP for the speaker, said there was already a privatisation agency, after that came recognition of the minister that it exists and an honorary word that there would not exist if the law was passed. So only after that came this, and if it were thought that it should already be in the transitional provisions would be a member that abolishs the existing agency, which the government itself formed in February, and thought so much that only in October gave the law on the establishment of a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency. Secondly, in the presentation of the minister, we heard the story, the standard one, about the past ten years, except that Mr. Honorable Minister forgot about the sanctions and the NATO aggression, and that's no wonder, because we heard Mr. Labus, who's dead, says there's no speech about war damage. They don't think they're guilty, we've charged our donor conference, with those crumbs that haven't even come to us as chickens, and 3,000 of the dead, about the broken infrastructure, about the damages of $32 billion for material damage, not a single word, just so easily collected for the past 10 years. Now let's move on to what I've actually come up with -- we've heard a phenomenal expression here -- that this is technical law. Please, this isn't about technique, this is about the essence of the development of the Republic of Serbia. The Republic of Serbia has extraordinary potentials and has reason to stand, like many countries of Europe, essentially, financially and organisationally in support of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in these areas. There's no talking about an entrepreneur in these areas, not giving him advances to a possible diapazon idea for an enterprise that can form and not give him financial support to form this company. The difference between the law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which we have proposed here (and we accept to propose a government, just to pass) and the agency proposed is essential and I have a moral obligation to point that out to you. Missing in this draft law, Article 3 of the Government, which, in our proposal, spoke - in line with the government's development policy of the Republic of Serbia, is an annual programme to support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is no member of the 4th that says that the direction of development and priority types of action is defined by the government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia should be the one to define where it provides support, which are priorities for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. There are actions that are not covered, which are why we import a variety of re-productions and equipment, which can, with our knowledge, with our home smartness, be developed in these areas. Finally, the government of the Republic of Serbia is certainly the one who must initiate support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, because it is a national interest. With the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country, we have a fundamental reason that many, and above all young women, have motive to live and work in the country. Therefore, the concept was that the Government of the Republic of Serbia was suggesting to its programme definitions priority areas, in which small and medium-sized enterprises would develop, but since that was not enough, then the fund was also envisaged and the way the fund was being filled, and the fund was why - because they needed cheap money. In this way, the cassation of the Law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and the formation of this law, proposed by the Government, lacks the essence, lacks a strategic concept of the Government of Serbia for those areas that should be developed in the interests of this country and in the interest of filling industrial capacities and supporting the development of the existing industry, large systems in our country. Second, we're running out of cheap money. Because this proposal by the Agency is essentially only in the organisational sense, and we have seen it in a profitable sense, because the Agency predicts that it is self-sustaining, but there is no cheap money, but our potential private entrepreneurs are heading towards whom, and as Dinkic works, it will only be to foreign banks, because our banks obviously shouldn't be in a system that the governor of the NBJ advocates at the premises of the Republic of Serbia. And now look at the foreign bank rating, which was formed here with us -- it's already second in the rating. Where capital and savings will go, and the interest capital that is given -- will go to the foreign banks that should be developed in these areas. So, the SPS parliamentary group absolutely believes that there must be systematic support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that responsibility for this support must essentially be borne by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and it must, in accordance with the country's development programmes, form a strategy, strategic support and provide sources of cheap money, with appropriate grace periodoids, with lower interest, so that, by offering a range of possible programmes, behind which the government stands, it gives the private a chance to choose a programme that supports the government, because it has seen that this is in the interest of developing the economy of this country, in the interests of citizens, and plus that it has cheap money. In contrast, we have one piece of law, which has been torn out (one member) from our proposal, which is essentially going towards verifying something that the government has already done. As far as regional support is concerned, it is clear that all regional chambers of commerce are essentially behind the law on support for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which has only been rejected here because the promoter was an SPS. I suggest here that the Government of the Republic of Serbia completes the law on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, let it improve it, because everything can be improved, so to propose it, but the concept must have a government strategy, which is defined for those programmes based on their own mind. We have over 2900 programmes of our scientific institutes, our colleges, and these are programs that complete and replace imports and programmes that are defined towards exports, complementing our large systems that are trombones and which small and medium-sized enterprises can speed up. On the other hand, the government has to define the source of cheap capital funds, with guarantees in an advantageous amount of interest and grace periods, because people will choose those programmes behind which the government stands, because they are in the interest of the country. This way, only to the Agency, we essentially get one form distributor, a form, possibly someone's knowledge, but we locate the importance of banks, and, as we can see, foreign banks will mostly run the banking market in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13869	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13870	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it's quite enough to say about this law. It is understandable to criticise the opposition and it is not natural for the opposition to act as a government, to support the government's proposal, but it is an unnatural situation in which the government behaves as an opposition. That is why I would like to point out, for the sake of the public and the work of MPs who are constantly showing great respect for parliament, the lack of the appeal and opposition of DSS MPs, who are not breaking one law, or not criticising the government, but is seriously slowing down the reform process, since this government's obligation stemmed from activities both of the federal administration and of the Republic, which has been defined by a whole series of international contracts, including the IMF, contracts that oblige us to form a central agency for small and medium-sized enterprises. The regulation, which is the subject of the distancing of the DSS from the motion for a law of the Resolute Ministry, Mr Vlahovic, has been in effect since 28 February this year. This Regulation was also in force when the Committee on Development and Economic Relations discussed this law with abroad, but at the time this Regulation was not an obstacle to the support given by the Committee to this law, among other things, by DSS MPs. This Regulation, which is the subject of criticism, is part of a sub-legal initiative of the Republic government that followed immediately after the takeover of the Republic government and in a situation which was identified - the dysfunction of existing legislation, which seriously hampered all planned activities of the Republic Government. That is why the agencies, including the Agency for Small and Medium-sized Enterprises, were formed on February 28th and were formed, which in itself did not remain an empty letter on paper, but were very actively involved in the process of reform and transition, and I think that you can discuss a specific case only after you are familiar with the report of the resolution ministry, which was submitted in August and September, which was discussed by the committees in charge. So, as for the position of the Republic government and the DOS parliamentary group, we fully support the regulations which, within the framework of the possibility, are precisely regulated rights and obligations of the republican administration and ministries, and are not surrounded by some political processes of the degradation of parliament or young parliamentaryism that insists on the control of the executive government. On the contrary, since the Republic government said on 8 November that, by adopting the law on small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship, the regulation governing the sub-legislative area would be put out of effect. What was the insistence of the DOS parliamentary group, both during our official sessions and during the work of the assembly working bodies and everything that characterized the activities in parliament, was, in fact, an effort to distance itself from day-to-day political events, which in itself significantly burden Parliament's work on those segments in which it is not based on the profile of a party or, even, a coalition. In the case of the SPS, you have seen that there is a clear desire and a need for the creation of legislation, which would shape this area of our economic life. That proposal was unacceptable to us, and I think we've talked enough about it during the May-Month debate. What is completely unsustainable is the the thesis that occurs at this time and which actually avoids the essence that certainly stems from the distance from the support of this law, which is by no means the law of a single ministry, the law of a party or the law of a coalition. It could in itself be the subject of much more argumentative criticism, no dispute stemming from a single regulation, which was in force when you supported this law on the Assembly Committee and which will certainly cease to apply the moment the Assembly passed this law. So one systemically, very important law becomes the subject of party reckonings, which are the result of day-to-day political activities. If this is logical in a situation where you invite citizens to the elections, and you put your party in the post of an anti-election campaign, and then congratulate the people on the election success, it is not logical to expect us to keep quiet about it. So DOS will try to pass this bill. If it fails, it will remain in force of the Regulation, and that is certainly, in itself, a bad variant, but you are certainly responsible for it with your unprincipled attitude. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13871	Slowly, we have two replicas. (Branislav Ivkovic, from the post: The SPS mentioned. Can I go after Michael? We've got replicas, only Mr. Michael's first call came in, and then you picked up. Well, then I'd like to inform Mr. Trajkovic that he has no right to replication. And as a member of the board? Okay. I'm begging you to hear from me. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13872	The Honorable Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I can understand everything, but I don't know what he's yelling at. I don't think that's gonna scare us, or we're in class so we can listen to lectures on good behavior, morals, and especially And especially when we talk about morality only when we're in church, there's no politics to remind ourselves, but good. [[Applause]] Finally, we have a regulation on regulations, but it is something that is entirely relevant to the government of the Republic of Serbia. We're going to have an agency, law enforcement, corporate companies, and so we're going to form regulations to cloud everything, so that those who somehow know how to swim best, who are pretty moral, and they keep calling on it, can work. We at the DSS were always against it, we pointed out objections to working and ruling through regulations. This government has passed over 100 regulations. Is that the way to lead the state into change? It's not. Is this the way when we want our legal system to be transparent and that everyone who invests in this Serbia wants to know what regulations it invests under? It's not. The regulations change, the Azakons go through this assembly and they're public. If the government can make and amend the regulations as it pleases, whether we know it or not, that someone has to wave "officer" to us so we know it and warn us that it's done, then it's not a transparent legal system that's a reform legal system. We are talking about a system that serves only those who create it, not those to whom it should serve. That's why regulations as regulations are something bad, and that's why we, as DSS, have always been against those regulations and have warned about it. We're in favor of the law, so let's cut the rules. The regulation is a previous issue. As long as we have a regulation in force, we can't vote for the law. By abolishing the part of the regulation that the Government has tried, it has given us the right to insist that the regulation as a regulation is anti-constitutional, illegal, unnecessary and that it serves to complicate the situation. That's what we're talking about here. I can also say that it is our pleasure that the government has confessed, and it is, you gentlemen, you're right. It's a bad regulation. Ladies and gentlemen, we are in DOS, but we are not involved in the work of the Republic government. We are not involved in making a decision in the Republic Government and so cannot and prioritize to support those decisions. There's some difference between participation or inaction in the government. A lot of decisions have been made without our knowledge and without our consent, so what do we have to do, and then support them? How long are we going to hide and justify... (President: Time)... Every move, against the law, bad, higher goals. That's what we had 10 years ago since we were 45. There were always internal enemies, those who work, the fifth column remained. We've had enough of that. Then we've made up our minds for all this time. Let's talk about arguments, work and then see what we can do. We will remain abstention before the regulation is passed, because we are entering the essence of the law. Cancel the regulation which organises 11 agencies and communications bureaus and then we will vote and discuss this law. That's something that's the previous question, and when it's over, we can open up all the other questions. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13873	Right on the line, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13874	Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, existing MPs, I believe that we all have accepted that we have, above all, a moral and formal obligation to work in the interests of Serbian citizens, to act so that our parents are proud of us when they look at us over these TV screens. Therefore, each of the MPs certainly, and I want to believe, tends to pass legal regulations in the interests of Serbian citizens. It is not good to impute as possible certain political struggles, as the basis for deciding whether to accept or not. As far as the SPS is concerned, it is highlighted for this speaker and by other MPs - we are truly aware, as people who have seen the economy and who know the results of the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, including on our soil. Look at the increase in the number of small and medium-sized enterprises - up to 170,000 has been developed in the last 10 years, and especially in Vojvodina. We have come behind the idea that it is very important to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, but systematically organised, using our knowledge, our local intelligence, looking at the resources and potentials of our country, and by the Government of the Republic of Serbia strategically plan development in those areas where this country is disabled. This implies, by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and predict benefits for those who opted to develop those areas of small and medium-sized enterprises that are important to complete the country's economic miles, not all of which open pizzerias, cafes and other things, but to open that small and medium-sized industry that is necessary, tertiary programmes, and above all secondary ones, to the development of the village. It's not good to say this is a strategic system law. What the Government of the Republic of Serbia is offering, through the law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, is a stickler of the proposal called the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Act with us. The law lacks a fundamental point, which is Articles 3, 4 and 5, which obliges the assembly to rule strategically the development policy of small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a missing source of funding, a benefactory source of funding for those programmes behind which the Government of the Republic of Serbia stands, if the privateer decides to invest his funds, is just developing these programmes that are strategically designed to complete our country's economic miles. Instead, we have received a third of that material, which is the Agency, a completely unnecessary law, because, finally, the government has already ruled out that agency by regulation, and that agency is, in fact, a mixed institution and nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13875	Replica. Mr. Trajkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13876	As a member of the Committee on Economic Development, it is true that I voted in favour of this law. I am a private person and I support all initiatives that go towards private entrepreneurship progressing. However, there is one thing Mr. Jovanovic did not hear when I presented it, which is that we were given an explanation on the Committee on Development, that the regulation made a decision to set up a regional agency. Please, it says here in the regulation in paragraph 6, to establish an agency, and nowhere is it mentioned as a regional agency. So there's something not clear to me. That's why I voted for that law. Therefore, the DSS requires that the regulation be repealed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13877	Replica, MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13878	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, only before the end of the debate in the principle of Serbia sees why we're doing so badly. You urgently have to resolve these conflicts. No more excuses, no more excuses, Serbia cannot be a slave to those conflicts that break out until you scratch each other under the surface and feel threatened by your party activities. Our MP Kragovic received a warning (wasn't the president) when he mentioned elections in Kosovo and Metohija, while other MPs also mentioned elections and congratulations and did not receive a warning. I only say this at the expense of this if you have the same archaic against all MPs, so I ask you to cancel Ljubi Kragovic's warning because I am interested in why you don't congratulate each other for being the third parliamentary group, and you would also be second if it weren't for the bad Serbs. Why don't you boast about how many MPs you have and why don't you say, if you're already setting up a regional centre in the territory of all Serbia, will you have the consent of this Shiparian assembly to establish it on both Kosovo and Metohija. The minister read the law well, but he doesn't know the country's system. He says regional agencies will establish private agencies, various associations and how anyone gets there, even someone from the world. That's not what this law says, Mr. Minister. This law treats only agencies established by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Other agencies in Serbia won't be until you pass a law that allows you and others to set up agencies and, in this way, you reveal to us that there will be everything there, that you might regulate it by regulations (because this junta doesn't want to escape from the regulations it has made in its own time), this law is to adapt only one regulation to the legal system - by getting a threat that if we don't pass this law, we will be left with the regulation: "Radio doesn't radio plays you radio". These regulations may exist until there is no Constitutional Court of Serbia. But I don't know which judge would be elected Judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia (at least if it were on your lists) who would accept making decisions that are not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. The adoption of regulations of this kind is not in line with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and is not the authority of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as individual ministers, can only define regulations to define relations under the law, to specify legal provisions, not to completely replace and substitute laws and legal solutions with regulations. Here we heard that industrial production is phenomenal, only 1.4% in a period that could so far be, observed, lower than in a year. By the end of the year, it will be past last year -- it must go beyond October, November and December last year. It's been a wrecking month. It wasn't the months in which the Serbs were doing something. That was the ignition. That was a crash. Another thing, Minister, if I were to compare one year of free work and co-operation with the world, I would be ashamed to compare it to any year from these previous 10. I'd be ashamed. If I'm here as a man who helps and loves the whole world, I'm trying to fit in with the production of all those that the whole world hated, stalled and bombed -- then there's no big success for this government. The question is, what's the difference? The minister also mentions the Paris Club and the write-off of debts, now we're just waiting for the fallen debts. We have not paid for this until now, and how can you pay for those who cause you direct harm? Well, you've been looking forward to the end of the bombing to say that you're paying your debts now, and for bombing us, we apologize very much for bombing us. Whenever sanctions and bombings are mentioned here, a large group of MPs laugh and applaud. Well, people, it doesn't make sense. At least keep it quiet. Whoever comes out for the pay phone and says we've been living under sanctions couldn't do better, you're laughing at him. You don't give it away. Well, imagine how capable you are of having someone else impose sanctions on you. Imagine when the bread was collected 10 times at your place at a time when the sanctions were gone. With you, edible oil has reached 100 dinars, the most expensive in Europe, now that there are no sanctions. That's why at least you feel it when the sanctions are mentioned and what happened to the sanctions. We were not involved in supporting the law, nor in supporting it. You know that we are a priority, against every law that the Government of the Republic of Serbia will submit to the National Assembly for consideration. You are trying to transform our amendments into amendments to the Government, amendments to MPs, usually by the DSS, which you will accept. That's how you deal, you deal. We learn from the papers that you agreed on a labour law, you who do it openly, and I congratulate you on that. You said that in the paper. And those who won't do it openly, who want to stay nice, they say there was nothing out of those deals, and it's all shooting at the skin of this country that's getting more helpless and weaker. Never, even with ideologically different coalition partners, there were no such conflicts. In general, could the people have guessed last year that you were so ideologically opposed when they voted for you as one group. Here, in the last two months, have there been any points of the agenda that you from the ruling coalition voted equally. There isn't. It's got to be solved real quick. There's not much time. Don't tell us here that there are MPs of the ruling party acting like an opposition. That's impossible. It can't be put up with.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13879	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13880	You know, these are the stories that have been told about this speaker and you haven't warned anyone about it, Mr. President. I didn't say anything new, I was just trying to give advice because there was a conflict here, for this pay phone, out of sight. You wait when I talk about it, to warn me. And everyone else who talks about it is right. Is it just because they are in power, or because they were chosen by some better people than those citizens of Serbia who chose me? But you, Mr. President, must get rid of it. And you have to get rid of Mr. President, or you'll have to give any MP who goes past the subject of reprimand and warning, or you'll only be sent to the MPs of the SRS. It wasn't me who started the DOS conflicts today, it was the DOS MPs who started it. I wanted to talk about the agency, and on Mitrovica, I was talking about the Agency, but you split up and you set us up for two or three days, and it wouldn't be 11-12 days; until elections in Kosovo and Metohija pass, so that someone here, at the pay phone, doesn't ask us, "What are you doing, how are you doing, how are you confusing the people?" How one of the same powers that leads the state gives different instructions to voters who are completely crazy and confused, who don't know where they're going to live tomorrow and how they're going to live; now it's over, you're warning me not to talk about the subject. I've had such warnings before, Mr. President, and I asked you to put an emergency resolution on the agenda, to invite Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija not to go to elections, because we have such a declaration from May of the month not to accept that constitution. We brought it here unanimously. But you step on the decisions you've made here with your majority and no one has interfered with you. Okay, if it's Serbia's salvation to warn me, whenever I talk about what you don't like, keep warning me, save Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13881	You had ten minutes left. Any of the other presidents of the parliamentary groups come forward? Mr Kovacevic, under the authority of the president of the parliamentary group, has been authorised to represent the parliamentary group at this point in the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13882	Mr. President, Mr. Minister, honourable fellow MPs, respected citizens next to small screens, the PDS parliamentary group will support in principle the draft law establishing this agency and fully accept the arguments given by the government's representative, i.e. the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Vlahovic. Some of the remarks heard here from individual parliamentary groups, and particularly from the SPS parliamentary group, that this law should provide that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should specifically set out areas that the government will specifically support with appropriate and well-fused funding, would be a really good idea that the Government has at this time such resources that can be used to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the domain of the benefited funding. I would also ask my colleagues from the DSS MPs not to vote against this proposal because of their daily policy and some political interests and to question the adoption of this bill in principle, because this will show that you remain consistent with your views that you are against the rule of law and that everything regulated by the regulations should be translated into legislative proposals, and this bill is precisely what makes the regulation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the establishment of a Small and Medium-sized Enterprises Development Agency replace the proposal for an appropriate law. I believe that you should join this law in principle to adopt, and if you have appropriate objections in particular, that perhaps then you should express your dissatisfaction if your proposed amendments are not accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13883	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13884	Dear Members of the People, certainly the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is of paramount importance. In parallel with the restructuring of a major economy, we need to build this flexible part of the economy that will allow us to overcome the future period and crisis, like the ones we had more easily. In order to build a sectoral part of the economy, institutional support is needed, and on the other hand, a financial sector that needs to invest in small and medium-sized enterprises is needed. When I said a little bit: the technical law, I meant the excessively technical law - because it is necessary to build institutions that will give the initiative to entrepreneurship and which will control essentially, and I would say very programmed, development of entrepreneurship. Because if you know that today we have a spontaneous development of entrepreneurship, forced over the past ten years dominantly, if you know that the entrepreneurial initiative is very small and that it comes down to most of the opening of some locals and shops, then you understand why education is needed. For me, education is the development of initiative, incubators, innovative centres and it is a key thing for developing small and medium-sized enterprises, not money. Money is provided in the financial sector and, believe me, there is no country in the world where the financial sector will not rather support small and medium-sized enterprises, but large ones. They prefer to support small business because it is more flexible and because it offers a good rate of return, but in order for this to exist, education and the development of entrepreneurship are necessary. That's why, gentlemen, it's technical law; it's technical law because it gives us the opportunity to build an institution, an institution at the level of the Serbian state that needs to overcome the government's policy, the ministry's policy in concrete actions and institutions at the level of the region, at the level of municipalities. And that's why I say, regional agencies, and they can be developed by anyone. There is no need in the law to define an economic policy or part of an economic policy relating to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. It is the government's economic policy, which can be short-term, defined for a period of one year, covering one financial year, and long-term. As you know, if you have carefully read the government's economic policy for 2001 and the government's economic policy, which is defined by a long-term development programme, and what you had the opportunity to get to know at a public presentation a month and a half ago, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, through innovative incubator centres, that's the part we count on. But what's most important? The most important thing is the network. So don't treat this law as the law of a political party, nor is it the law of the ministry, this is a prerequisite for a programmed development of entrepreneurship and initiative, and, I would say, a dam that projects that come from small and medium-sized businesses don't fail and that we don't compromise the idea of small and medium-sized enterprises. The development of a central agency, which will help to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, is actually just one picture in the mirror of all successful countries. We have, in order not to create confusion, since, by law as you know, it is not possible in the transitional provisions to annul the existence of an agency established by a government regulation, to amend a regulation that we have annulled the existence of an agency. There is no confusion, and that last technical detail has been removed, and I really think that this initiative, which, among other things, is a prerequisite for a stand-by arrangement with the IMF, which is, among other things, one of the conditions that we need to justify, the initiative and the good will that came from the international community in the light of the written-off loans. This initiative needs strong support right now. Please vote for this law and this way we will allow us to create a network of necessary agencies because this really is no place for any conditioning, political or any other kind. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13885	It's a business thing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13886	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since we have reached a vote on one important system, technical, law, I ask that only those MPs who have identified themselves vote on the basis of Article 82, so that we really know whether this law has been passed or not. So I would ask that you arrange for cards to be collected where there are no MPs and that it be the most measured quorum for this vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13887	I don't see any empty spaces here. Please, if my colleagues can get their cards out, if there are any forgotten ones. We're not in a situation where there's a lot of MPs away. I'm finishing the initial search. (Tomislav Nikolic: A quorum? ) Highlight the request. I'm not the psychic Zorka to know what you're looking for. Are you answering for a word? No, I don't. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. ) I put to the vote the draft law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, in principle. (Dragan Tomic: From 205, and it was 197.) First, please talk to me. Second, to read the results we have on the screen. Then let's take your word for it, and we'll solve it if there's a problem. I don't think there's any problem, because there was no dilemma whether the law would be passed or not. For 111 against 52, abstention 41, not one, a total of 205 MPs voted. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I find that the National Assembly adopted the bill in principle. We'll continue work at 15.00 hours. Members of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, please, the session will begin at 14.00 p.m. on the second floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13888	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. Since we adopted the draft law on the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency in the morning session, in principle, I am opening a review of the draft law in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13889	According to this bag, I assume the minister is still somewhere in the National Assembly building. This bill makes it difficult to make amendments to which the bill can be fixed. The only way that the Serbian Radical Party reacts and tries to convince you that such a bill does not go through the assembly procedure was to propose for individual members to delete those members, thereby in some way preventing the adoption of this law, because we consider the establishment of the agency to be an unnecessary job that only duplicates the administration. The law should not be called a law on a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency, but rather a law on agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. The question at all is how many will be, how many will be set up by the government at regional level, although I am surprised that the draft law did not provide for certain provisions on how these regional agencies will be set up and who will appoint the managers of those agencies, whether they will be called directors or whether they will be chiefs, representatives of the republican agency. That God knows. The bill promoter didn't even do it. Indeed, in a great hurry this bill was made, because it was obvious that six million dollars would come, so those who bring the six million dollars would take five, and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia would quickly pass the law. That's why we suggested that Article 1. The bill is deleted. Practically, by accepting this amendment, it would be impossible to further discuss this bill. This law is no good and you who will participate in its adoption do not know the purpose at all. You don't know what the Directorate will do. It's gonna be some consulting house, you don't know how it's gonna be financed. It's not true that the money in the budget for this year is separate for her. You can go out here and say, for every draft of the law, in the "special purpose" item, and in this ministry, money is provided for the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but it's a non-serious interpretation, especially for someone who has to take care of these finances afterwards. So I suggest you don't pass this law. By adopting amendments to Article 1 you would not practically pass a law on the Agency or agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, but it was not bad to put this on the agenda, as more important than the draft labour law, so that we would simply tap the pulse of parliamentary groups in the National Assembly and, eventually, to the labour law, we would have another postponement of the session of the National Assembly for some better times.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13890	Is there anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 36, against 99 abstentions, 29 did not vote 10, a total of 174 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The People's MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13891	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2. The draft law on the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises refers to the legal status of this Agency and states that the Agency has the property of a legal person with the rights, obligations and responsibilities laid down by law and statutes, which the Agency is to adopt, that the Agency operates in accordance with the rules on public services and the most significant position 3. - that the agency has a jury account. The position of us, Serbian radicals, is that the establishment of another agency primarily abuses budgets, because of the funds allocated from the budget for the establishment of this agency, which is somewhere around 10 million dinars, although the minister has deceived us by saying that we voted for the agency the moment we adopted the budget. When the budget was adopted, there was only an item -- special purposes and these 10 million dinars go from the position of the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation's special purpose. So there was no special item -- the establishment of any, or any of these agencies. The agency's jobs are already being carried out by the Ministry of Business and Privatisation, the Ministry of Finance or the Chamber of Commerce. Their role is almost insignificant, but it is significant that there is a special giro account outside the budget of the Republic of Serbia, through which donation funds will go through, and we have already heard that around $470,000 is foreseen for these purposes, or conditioned by the grant agreement from the Trust Fund for the Development of the private sector in the SRJ. These funds will, therefore, go through this jury account, and then from that jury account they will return to those foreign natural and legal persons, which, as provided for in Article 13, will be hired to carry out certain professional tasks under their jurisdiction. I'm telling you in advance this agency won't have employees. The minister did not even mention whether or not the number of employees in the Agency was predicted. There will be a Director of the Agency, a Director of the Agency, all other professional affairs will be done by his Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, or by this domestic or foreign natural and legal persons, for large compensations, and there will certainly be no employees in it. In accordance with our position, which we have presented in the debate in principle, that we are against this law, we have asked for the erasure of each member individually, including Article 2. If any of these members were deleted, especially if you voted to accept the amendments to Article 1, this law would practically fall before the Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13892	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. ) I put the amendments to Article 2 to the vote. For 41, against 93, 30 abstentions, 23, a total of 187 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 3 of the amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the bearer want a word? He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13893	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is against adopting such a proposed law, because the proposed text of the law, the proposed solution, will not contribute to the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, no businesses, because the law itself does not propose investment in production, does not propose aid and investment in the economy, but suggests exclusively providing consulting ores of management services, and nothing more. It is best regulated by Article 7 which speaks of the Agency's activities. My amendment, of course, is primarily here because of the fact that if one of these members was not adopted, the principle law observed would be inapplicable, inconclusive, could not remain and remain in legal traffic, and so bad that it would be a great success for the National Assembly, and above all because of our people, because of our citizens, that this law would not be passed. So I think it would be a good idea to accept any of these amendments, not to be determined by other people's laws, not to be written by a certain Peterson, as he's already called, it doesn't matter, which tells us exactly how and what laws we have to make, how and where we're going to deploy every thousand dollars, and how and who, by whom, the consulting firms, are going to pay you back. So, this is not an indigenous and autonomous act of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, this is an act arising from a commitment accepted by the Federal Assembly on 27 September, so, in connection with the Labus-Piterson agreement, that is, the Federal Government - the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the Association for Development. That's the point, and I think we still need to represent a sovereign, independent country, not a colony where someone else is going to write and determine what kind of legal acts they're going to be, what censorships they're going to be for the Agency, how they're going to be, and who they're going to advise on where they're going to invest. We don't need advice, thank them for their advice, they advised us when they bombed us. If they want to give, they'd better give, not determine how the state works, what's going to happen in the country. That, of course, it won't be free, it shows everything that's happened so far in Serbia, because free cheese only exists in mice. All of this, and what is reportedly given, is given for much bigger and more significant political concessions, which we have done before, in co-operation with The Hague tribunal; today, the Serbians are forced to go to elections in Kosovo and Metohija, in order to ensure the legitimacy and legality of the Rugs and Shiptar independence.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13894	Mr. Vucicou, Article 3 is - the headquarters of the Agency in Belgrade, you have proposed to delete. Please limit the discussion to that, to the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13895	I'm breaking up so you don't racket me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13896	Thank you. Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I put the amendments to the vote. For 45, against 93, with 35 abstentions, no vote was cast on 20, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13897	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the process of property and management transformation, in which our business entities are to be found soon, is in any case suitable for Mr Vlahovic, the minister of their own transformation and for other members of the Republic government, whose Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic is. If that were the case, this proposal of the Agency for the Privatisation of Small and Medium Enterprises, which is no expert miracle, to present it here today to Mr. Vlahovic, but one obligation, which stemmed from the ratification of the international agreement, the treaty, and I would say, the result of begging and begging in the white world for a small, miserable amount, which will not contribute, the development of small and medium-sized enterprises; but from the way the minister presented it today, and those who are his followers, the impression is that these people, and he himself, some magicians with whom the potential founders of small and medium-sized enterprises, or those who already possess them, will come for advice, which will help develop our economy and that they are doing their business successfully. Today, however, in just one minute of principle debate, as far as we have the opportunity to talk, I have pointed out that these are not any people with good intentions, people who want our economy to stand better, to develop small and medium-sized enterprises. No, they're your consultants, counselors. This Article of the Fourth Law, which I have submitted to the amendment, and I ask it to be deleted, speaks of our country, the Republic of Serbia, and the Ministry of its own transformation as just a passing account for these alleged mid-terms, advisers from abroad, for which out of 6 million and "help" which has reached out to $470,000 for the establishment of the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises. So, not only can they not help, not only will no one be able to come to Minister Vlahovic, as well as the Agency to ask for some money -- but only by carefully and strictly dictated by the choice of those who advise, from the financial centres of power, dictate. Who are these counselors really and what is their role here? So their role is to use the Ministry, which will also use money from the Republic of Serbia's budget, I don't know what Mr. Vlahovic meant today when he said "so you voted, pointing to SRS MPs who were the only one against the 2001 budget, you voted in favour of that and such a budget. Is under the term - special purposes, hiding that amount, we don't know it, it needs the minister to explain it to us, and to explain to us what funds on the burden of budget users will be allocated for 2002, so that these advisers can do their job uninterruptedly. They're not at all controversial about these donations in themselves, it's controversial that you promised that six billion dollars of grants would help come. But not some famous interest and debt write-offs, (particularly for the past 10 years when we were under the unprecedented sanctions of so-called. You have already promised 6 billion dollars as soon as you come to power to go straight into investment, to develop not only small and medium-sized enterprises, but the entire economy. Today we have a completely different picture and a completely different situation in our economy. We have a situation where the minister says that flexible, as he put it, layoffs should be made in the direction that they are employed in small and medium-sized enterprises, which white-world mechanics and hoistuplers will come to the Agency, in the role of some advisers, to advise what they should do. I think they will advise them as they have probably advised Vlahovic himself so far and, as I once said to the unpopular black Djindjic troika: Vlahovic, Djelic and Milovanovic, who came to Kragujevac and fired 15,000 workers in just one day. That's not all. There will be no restructuring of the flag as promised but be at... (President: Time and Theme. )......................................................................................................... These days, ladies and gentlemen, to you who find that funny, a colleague from Kragujevac who is also funny, who belongs to the ruling nomenclature, it should be clear that in the worst possible way, over 500 disabled workers are being smuggled into the flag group, which is not known what their further destiny is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13898	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? (Yes) Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13899	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law has few members, but this is one of the most important members of this bill. I think the core of this is how the funds will be provided and, of course, the users of the Agency's work surveillance services. What's this all about? Article 4 shall consist of two parts. One part that speaks of how funds are provided for the establishment of the Agency and the other part which speaks of the Agency’s resources being provided. In the first part, the establishment of the Agency does not avoid the budget of the Republic of Serbia. It is said that funds for the establishment of the Agency will be provided in part from the Republic of Serbia's budget and part from donations, sponsorships, domestic and foreign, legal and physical persons. However, the Agency's budget is no longer mentioned in providing the Agency's work. The question arises: why is it that if donations are already, if sponsorships are the source of the Agency's work resources, why don't they go to the Republic of Serbia's budget first, even if they are dedicated? To go to the Republic of Serbia's budget and to be forwarded to the Agency for Assistance or for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. How the inflow of these funds will be controlled and how you think it's determined what amount came; how it's spent; how justified abroad; how much it had to return immediately to whoever gave us a donation, because it's known in the world how donations are handled, that the percentage is even up to 40%. Second of all, what revenue will the Agency make with its work? We are now saying that we and the European Union will probably finance agencies that will help our small and medium-sized enterprises. An item of the Agency’s work shall appear in its clothing. Will the Agency charge its services? How much will it collect in this country, then, every product in this country; what is its percentage; how much will the Agency be able to charge on behalf of its services. It doesn't say anything here. This will be determined by the statute of the Agency, how much a state institution will charge its users for its services. This third: "other sources in accordance with the law", what other sources we have for the Agency's work, if we have already foreseen donations and funds that the Agency makes with its work. What law still provides for other sources, other sources of funding for the Agency's work. If this is the law, there is no mention of any way of obtaining funds from the Agency in this law. If it's some other law, then there's got to be some law here. By which law will we provide for funding for the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. If it's a budget law, then England can't charge its services, then it's a budget user, then it spends budget funds. Then everyone -- a complete economy, will count on next year having to finance the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. I think this bill was done very quickly. It has not been seen in detail, it has not been seen until the end, and perhaps this $5 million has been returned abroad, perhaps some million left and these 300,000 marks from Serbia's budget should appear to be withdrawn from the new year, not to fail, not to be transferred, so that there is no cheaper oil to eat, if we remain with these funds. That's why I'm proposing to the one who always presents himself to us here as a serious man, a man who takes his science seriously, to withdraw this bill, so that he can give us one serious bill of law, behind which he will stand by all his knowledge. Then of course, depending on whether the bill is quality or not, and we decide how we vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13900	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? No, I don't. If not, I put it to the vote. For 47, against 95, abstentioned 39, no vote was cast on 20, a total of 201 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petrovic submitted to the 4th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go, Mr. Petrich.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13901	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, in today's debate in the principle of SPS MPs explained why they do not support the adoption of such a law. This is basic, which is not provided with any means or means to help materially and to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, since all the odds of the law being passed, the SPS wants such a scrawny law to improve its proposals by submitting amendments, to better predict some solutions than are given in the government's proposal. In that direction, I submitted an amendment to the article. 4th of this law, and this is a question where the funding of the Agency's work is regulated. It envisions funding for the establishment of agencies from the Republic of Serbia's budget and donations and sponsorship. It's for starters okay. However, the future work of the Agency is likely to be insufficiently in line, as funds from two basic sources are provided from donations and sponsorship and, secondly, from revenue made by the Agency through its operations, i.e. through the provision of services under its jurisdiction. Starting with the fact that the agency can contribute to the establishment and operation of small and medium-sized enterprises, and thus to encourage the overall development of the economy of the Republic of Serbia, the Agency should be provided with safer sources of funding. Both proposed sources of funding do not provide any firm guarantee that the Agency will be able to work uninterruptedly. In fact, we will not receive donations and sponsorship indefinitely, and it is inappropriate for the country to constantly beg someone for such a kind of help. Another projected source for funding the Agency's work, which should be realised as its own revenue from providing services, is also uncertain from the assumption that the Agency can successfully operate. Well, it is expected to generate some significant revenue from the collection of services provided to those who have yet to start a small and medium-sized enterprise. For the abovementioned reasons, in order to ensure the material assumptions and conditions for the Agency's work, in order to really work, I propose, with my amendment, that a provision be put in place that allows the Agency to provide funds from the Republic budget for the work of the Agency. It is understood that the competent authorities will appreciate the engagement of staff at the Agency for the achievement of their own income and will accordingly propose the amount and whether, in a later period, the allocation of funds from the Republic budget for this purpose. But at least for starters it's necessary and that possibility should be left. Finally, given the fact, I think there are reasonable reasons for the amendment to be accepted and to leave the possibility that funds can be provided for the Agency's work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13902	Anyone else want a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 46, against 100, with 35 abstentions, did not vote 17, a total of 198. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 5th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. He has the word Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13903	I think the government should at least, when she's the bill promoter, keep one terminology that she's going to run through all the bill proposals that she's delivering to us, so that whenever you mention small and medium-sized enterprises anywhere, she always knows what kind of company you're dealing with. Article 5's stance is as pointless as that of Article 15, which says that agencies can be organised in the territory of the entire Republic of Serbia, in position 2 said -- the Republic of Serbia is the territory defined as the Republic of Serbia by the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. That is the case with this article, which states in Section 1 that small and medium-sized enterprises within the meaning of this law are considered companies that meet the requirements of the law governing accounting. Well, that's understood. You say, "Small and medium-sized enterprises" and immediately anyone who does any work, where he needs that definition, is drawn from the Company Act and the Accounting Act. It's simply a small or medium-sized company. I think it's just written for writing and that this first attitude is not necessary at all. It's not necessary because it redefines the term that's already been defined. Then the laws would have 200-300 members if each time you would have something that was further defined and explained. That's why I suggested erasing this attitude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13904	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 48, against 96, with 35 abstentions, did not vote 21, a total of 200. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Article 6 The 6th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. There's a word from MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13905	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 6 lists the users of the Services Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. However, I note that all these jobs defined in Article 6 are already under way by the existing Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which I quote: "Founded to create conditions to promote economic and regional development, to restructure businesses and to develop the market". What kind of professional assistance is needed for small and medium-sized enterprises, businesses and individual agricultural producers who intend to produce primary agricultural products, and here we are supposed to educate our agricultural producers how to make chips or how to make jam out of raspberries. We didn't have to set up an agency because of this, and the excellent recipe for jam making was given by the president of the SRJ, Dr Vojislav Kostunica, because that's what he does, while his wife writes the constitution. But, behold, the government has found it appropriate that these recipes of Vojislav Kostunica also be collected through one such agency in public. I think that's enough intelligence. Make you, gentlemen, Mr Dinkic draw from the straws of those two billion foreign exchange reserves, which he came to, not because he is personally capable or that the economy records some economic growth, but because he has committed all the business banks to keep large funds mandatory in the National Bank. When these funds are used for new investments, we can expect both small and medium-sized enterprises, and great giants to come in some of the funds based on which they can invest and start production and bring life back to life. Until then, you're free of commercials on TV, to convince the people to bring their money, to get out of their straw, if there is one, and to hand over any business bank to be saved. Because if Dinkic keeps state money in the straw, then why don't the citizens and their earned money keep it in the straw. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13906	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13907	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think the point of Article 6 is to invest in our troops or, as the promoter called them, to agricultural producers. In addition to everything provided for by this law, which is the whole work on project design, project review work, assistance in the provision of funds, individual producers who intend to produce primary agricultural products suddenly appeared. Just as much as they write something, is it going to help him grow nuts and sell shelled nuts at the market, or he's going to fold and hazelnuts, and he's going to make money there, or he's going to bake peppers and fry jam; or he's going to open a freezer where he's going to dry raspberries; but it's not a agricultural producer anymore, it's already going to go to a small and medium-sized company. He must have his employees where he'll keep the products specified until he takes them out. There's no gap at all in what an individual manufacturer has to do. Imagine a peasant who will come to the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency to explain to him how he's going to work? Whether it's some agricultural institute or a consulting agency, intellectual-type services, completely other services than those that the neighbor intends to do, is necessary. Will that peasant make a slaughterhouse, that I'm slaughtering bulls, and then he's not a agricultural producer and he has to register in a completely different way. I think it would be acceptable for you to remove these delusions with this amendment and to make the authors of the bill serious so that the laws look like something to them that will be applied in practice. If this is just a prescribed regulation by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and this is about the establishment of a Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, it should not have been prescribed, someone should have hired to do this bill a little better.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13908	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 50, against 97, with 37 abstentions, not 22, a total of 206 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 7th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13909	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've proposed to be a member of the 7th. The bill is deleted because it is at least ridiculous, it is archaic and reminds me personally of the period from the self-managing concept of becoming in our country, at the time of Broz and Cardela. What stands there is really, at least, hypocritical and cynical. To write, in points 1 to 7, that this agency will perform a miracle, that it is educated and that it is ready to do all of this under points 1 to 7, it is hard for anyone in our country to believe. What hurts everyone's eyes is, first of all, point 5. If you're reading in a row, you're starting from the first, but point 5 says -- it's establishing a unique information system of statistical data, information of importance for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. This is due to an agreement personally reached by Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia Zoran Djindjic, with Bill Gates and a commitment that stems from this, the establishment of a single information system. As far as the jurisdiction, i.e. the jobs to be done by this famous agency, all of what is stated here is already in the jurisdiction of the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. If you came to the institute, let's say Mr. Vlahovic at the Faculty of Engineering in Kragujevac, who is one of the most recognized in the world, who has such a professional teacher's staff and a cooperative staff, and if you told them that your agency will prepare and implement an education programme and that it will provide assistance with innovative inventions, as well as for their application in small and medium-sized enterprises, then they would say - well, we don't need that agency at all, we can advise you. It's just that there's a bill here without the innkeepers, and yet it's something that's your international obligation, what's been taken over since August of the month, and what's been ratified in the federal assembly on September 27th. These donations, allocated to $470,000, of a 6 million donation, should only serve to pay consulting firms from donor countries. Now the question really arises, if at all you need help from those who seek to develop small and medium-sized enterprises, why consultees from abroad, why, when only on the case of one institute with a highly professional professional staff, have given you the opportunity to have someone understand all these patents they have, that they can sell them or enter our market. However, as I said earlier, it is only one passing account and the question arises when will the Government of the Republic of Serbia put before us a proposal of the law of the agency to open a jury account through which funds will arrive in multiple, million or hundreds of thousands, of dollars. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13910	Is anyone else answering for this amendment? Here you go, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13911	Today, the minister informed us that the agency's work could not be subdued under the Development Fund because, with criticism of behaviour so far, the minister said that the fund has mostly been financed by large social enterprises so far, safeguarding social peace, providing support to only social programmes within the factory, while at the same time proposing a law here that a whole new agency will carry out all the jobs provided for in the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, which he says will no longer be financed by large enterprises. The question now arises, if the funds from the Development Fund will be channelled into small and medium-sized enterprises, which will no longer be performed by the Development Fund, but will be carried out by the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises under this law by nature. Although Article 12 provides for the statute to determine what the agency looks like, I have to ask the minister if he's been doing any projections, how many employees will have the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. In particular, if regional agencies are set up and each of them, and according to law, should be able to carry out all of the tasks listed in points 1 to 7, where experts of different profiles are needed, but also experts where many different market-related transactions are carried out, to provide various services, projects, project implementation, financing, markets, and who knows what not. How we are now inserting some new mastodon and what will happen to the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. All of our amendments to this bill were guided by the fact that we believe there is a Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia. The fund is decided by whoever is in power in the Republic of Serbia and there is no dualism of the government. No one else in the Development Fund decides, so now the government has to form a small and medium-sized enterprise development agency, so it can command funds that are collected. It's all in your hands. Why do you avoid the Development Fund and what the Development Fund will do, if we have now heard that large businesses remain without any support from the Fund, and support that comes to small and medium-sized enterprises will be controlled exclusively by the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. What will happen to the Development Fund, or if there are funds in the Development Fund, where will it go? Who will now decide on these funds and will the agency decide on the funds already decided once by the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia? I think you're overly bureaucratizing this and that, led by a small donation from abroad, you've prepared the law expecting some huge donations, and Article 13, which you've provided for the engagement of both foreign legal and physical persons, speaks enough about why the law was even made.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13912	The word has Minister Vlahovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13913	I promise I won't answer again until the end of the discussion. But since all the amendments are similar to this -- to double the activities of the Development Fund, for the sake of the public, I mean that's not true. The Development Fund functions as a financial institution, like any other financial institution, by having some of its respective regional priorities and industrial priorities, given that the Fund for Development is owned by the Republic of Serbia. How does it work? By providing investment studies to companies seeking credit arrangements, they deliver their projects to the Fund for Development and on this basis, first of all, the Fund’s professional services, and then the Fund’s Management Board makes a decision on the placement of funds. Do you, gentlemen, see in article 7 that there are even one sentence relating to the allocation of financial resources? Why is the Agency working on preparation, education, a unique information system, expert assistance for the coordination of specialised programmes, assistance in the realization of domestic and foreign investments, support for improvements in work, development, innovation and invention, aid for the development of business plans? Because large businesses have their own special professional services that make investment projects that are directed to financial institutions. That's exactly the point. The task of this agency is to define a unique methodological approach for the education of entrepreneurs, which includes, among other things, helping to develop business plans or feasibility studies, which are later directed to the Development Fund, but also to other financial institutions. Therefore, there is no overlap between the Development Fund and, on the other hand, the agencies to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. On the contrary, there is one strong support for small and medium-sized enterprises, bearing in mind that there are no standard personnel available in large enterprises, aid for the development of business plans, for interpreting economic regulations and in general legal regulations, for the creation of a single information base. That's exactly what I was just talking about, that the idea, at minimal risk, is to break into the project and to bring to the project's bearer, which is the entrepreneur, is actually the necessary rentability of his project. That's the point, among other things, of the whole law. The financial institutions are there, including the Development Fund, to finance projects prepared by potential entrepreneurs. Therefore, the finding that activities are being doubled, that the Development Fund is already doing this, is not true. The Development Fund, based on the investment studies received, approves the funds, assessing the rentability of such projects. Please, I wouldn't want the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises to be misrepresented in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13914	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 52, against 94, abstentioned 39, 18, a total of 203 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 7th amendment was submitted by MP Radojko Petrovic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not accepted the amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13915	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, honourable ministers, in Article 7. The draft laws are taxed on the Agency's activities and are systematised in seven points. Just a little while, Minister Vlahovic explained this further. I have submitted an amendment to this article and I have proposed that the following provision be put in place: "That the agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship specifically co-operates with the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia". That's my suggestion, which I think is a requirement. When submitting the amendments, I had in mind that the existing Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia was established and I quote that -- from the provision of the Law on the Fund for the Development of Serbia, where it says, "To create conditions for promoting economic and regional development, for restructuring of businesses and for the development of the market". In fact, it also fits with what the Agency needs to do, only that they are materially encouraging, and here in terms of organisational support. Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia funds to start, further development and consolidation are provided with credit, part and non-refundable funds, where an area is wanted, some part to support. Given that the Agency provides consulting services and participates in the preparation of the development strategy and the proposal for an economic policy measure to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, while the Republic Development Fund provides financial resources to promote this development, in which small and medium-sized enterprises firstly come in this context, it is appropriate to accept the amendment to provide for the obligation of co-operation, to synchronise certain institutions that have the same tasks in certain conditions. It is normal to provide for a legal obligation that they must co-operate with each other, not that from case to case provides for optionalness or to bypass certain institutions. Therefore, in this sense of synchronisation, this obligation should be accepted. I do not see why the Government did not support this part of the co-operation as an obligation between the Agency and the Fund in its proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13916	Anybody else answer for a word? The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13917	The SPS MPs voted in principle against the law, viewing it as a partial solution, which is not comprehensive, which does not fully support and does not stimulate the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The key development is precisely that the Agency, having those tasks it had and a proposal for such a same agency in our law on supporting the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, acts as an independent entity, without any financial support, potential, those who want to form small and medium-sized enterprises. Assessing that the development of small and medium-sized enterprises is the essential task of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, especially in the period when it is adopted, such as the Privatisation Act, which will inevitably result in an increase in the number of unemployed, in particular taking into account the need for rural development, we believe that, if it is already adopted in the principle of this law, with such an amendment, which in financial terms relies on the Agency for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, conditions are created that this agency can indeed do something in essence. If the Agency is in place of the Government, which would be far better, which through the competent ministry defines those priority production programmes behind which, hopefully, should stand local intelligence and define these priority programmes, then there must also be a cake from which it will provide cheaper funds for investment and development, and thus motivates those people who want to invest, that behind the agency stands a fund for the development of the Republic of Serbia that will give them cheaper capital, with a longer grace period, with lower interest, with longer time-limits. Because the interest of the state is not to open pizzerias, cafes, but to open production plants, to open in villages production plants in the area of the food industry, not to be reprocessed by Germans and Slovenians, and sold to us here as healthy food juices, to develop high tourism, to develop rural tourism, to develop production plants that replace the import of equipment and imports of repromation plants that now our large systems import and spend foreign currency. So it is the state that has to define priority economic areas and priority business programmes behind which the state stands, because it is interested in completing the economic structure in the territory of the Republic of Serbia. That's why it is our motive, and our MP, to propose such an amendment, that at least through the Development Fund, if it couldn't have been otherwise, we have a chance for the government, that this state, through the Parliament that requires it to the government, says -- it's fine, please, you have financial support with cheaper capital. If we let privates depend exclusively on banks, and as Governor Dinkic works, it means foreign banks, because all our banks will destroy, they will have a set of capital and there will be nothing of it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13918	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 90, abstentions of 39, 23 MPs, a total of 200 MPs, did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 8th Amendment was submitted by MP Aleksandar Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13919	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, and in a law that essentially does not bring anything to our business entities, for small and medium-sized enterprises, other than the possibility of obtaining consulting and management services (understanding this is somewhat cynicalally pronounced) in the inability to get any more serious neither financial nor technical assistance from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, from our country, Article 8 provides for the authorities of the agency. Now there's something very interesting. In fact, since the definition of a liberal market economy with only as much State interference as is necessary, as was the government's definition, the government's formal commitment to the adoption and adoption of the budget, there is almost nothing left. Namely, the Agency's authorities are foreseen by the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, and all bodies are elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. What will be the control of the board of directors when both authorities elect the Government of the Republic of Serbia? What monitoring measures will be carried out by the Supervisory Board when it, as well as by the Management Board and the Director, is elected by the same authority, in an almost identical manner? The Management Board shall be elected by representatives of private entrepreneurs, i.e. representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, as well as three members and two of the three members of the supervisory board. Will the government ask for market formation, to bring to itself the best representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises, who will favour, who will potential, who will help, who in this way will be above all other representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises in Serbia or for which something like this exists at all. Why is it not given to any other body, if the law is already passed in the National Assembly, that it may exercise control, at least by selecting board members or board members. If this is the case, if the government predicted that the Agency's authorities were the Management Board, the Supervisory Board and the Director, and elected by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, it did not have to come before the National Assembly. She could have solved it by sublegal acts and it wouldn't have been the first, not the last time. If it came before the National Assembly, I guess some kind of control is expected, I guess some kind of interference of MPs in the National Assembly is expected in the work, in the performance and way of doing this work by law, not in this way. We'll have organs, these organs will work exclusively as the government says, there will be entrepreneurs and they will do as the government says, because there's no other way. If that is not the case, the Government will replace them, although you will see in the text of the law that neither the choice nor the shift itself, if it happens earlier than four years, are not regulated, so you do not know how, in any way, which way the Government chooses, or appoints the Director of the Agency. I think that if we need serious control, serious help in performing the Agency's tasks, then the authorities that control the work of the director should choose another body, and not in the same way in the same procedure the same body, because then there is no control, then there is no system, brakes and balance, there is no one who will prevent the director from doing the job in a different way. This is where I brought the text of a bill adopted by the federal parliament in the Federal Assembly on September 27th. I'll just quote part of it, to make sure the words that we, the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party today, speak from this pay phone. It is said that six million dollars (that is not the six billion) from the Trust Fund will be divided into several categories. The privatisation of state and social enterprises 3,560,000, the Privatisation Agency 1,090,000, the Foreign Investment Agency 380,000, and then the Agency for the Support of Medium and Small Enterprises comes in 470,000 dollars. So, just to bear in mind that this is the reason why this law is passed, that this is the essence, so the agreement signed by Labus and Peterson, not that the government has come to terms with the enormous need to help, develop, invest in our production, etc. I think it's becoming quite clear now, if the IMF determines our price of electricity, it's no wonder they determine and bring us from the hills -- from the valley and to the shortcut of some laws, in order to meet the form they require of our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13920	Mr Vlahović, the promoter, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13921	It seems to me that this is my first promise that I have broken, but of course I have to react, for the simple reason that the Serbian Government, when it comes to donations, has nothing to hide. Because of the mention of the Trust Fund Treaty, it is otherwise called (in English), which means that it was the first time in the history of transition countries that the World Bank, instead of credit assistance, has approved grants for the development of institutes. And it's true that we got six million US dollars for the development of the privatisation agency, the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, the Export Incentive Agency and the Bank Rehabilitation Agency. These are the four institutions that have been helped by these six million dollars. But, gentlemen, we don't make laws because of these institutions. And here, the clean information works, the European Agency for Reconstruction is ready and has already allocated 1.8m euros to support the development of the Agency for the Encouragement of Small and Medium Enterprises Development and Entrepreneurship. The European agency GTZ has allocated a certain amount of money to the Privatisation Agency. So wait, what does that mean -- that means our citizens, our country, will cost less. That means we're gonna take that much less money out of the budget. So I think that's the thing we should be proud to say, that this reform government, that the economic reforms we've defined deserve support everywhere in the world, through the free financing of institutions, doesn't cost our budget, through the write-off of a 67% debt that happened a few days ago in Paris, and I'm going to remind you that no country in transition has received such favourable conditions for write-offs. But I know that it's always a big problem, at least for the opposition, to discuss budget savings, given that they were mostly in the previous period, which you have a substantial budget inspection report, about budget spending, not budget revenue and budget redundancies. So, all of these poor things, that we're trying to spend money on consulting firms, they're not true. Whoever knows something about consulting knows where they belong and knows what they're doing. Then, the story - why it has nothing to do with the Development Fund. I have to say, it's a conflict of interest. The financial institution cannot be related to an institution that means support, educational, for small and medium-sized enterprises, we are entering a conflict of interest. So, all we do is really set up the right institutions to develop any part of the economy, and we work so that the budget costs less, to save, because we are aware of the situation in which the state is located and where our citizens are, the taxpayers. That's why they won't pay for it, but thanks primarily to the reputation of economic reforms implemented so far, we have provided it for free. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13922	Anybody else answer for a word? Come on, you can't do that. You have no right to a replica. [[Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]] Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 48, against 90, abstentioned 36, no vote was cast on 26, a total of 200 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The amendments were submitted by MPs Dusan Ilic and Dragan Shormaz. Dusan Ilic withdrew the amendment, and Mr. Shormaz? Ambassador Shormaz is giving up the amendment. I find that the amendment has been withdrawn. The 9th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He's got the word of the MP Gordana Pop-Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13923	Ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, Article 9 refers to the choice and jurisdiction of the board of directors. The first is said that the board of directors has four members and the second is that the president and three board members are appointed from the ranks of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs, as if the law had been written by little Perica. They've forgotten one board member. There's no telling who's naming him. The amendment was then removed, as I noticed, so another member of the board of directors was appointed from the staff order. What the Management Board is doing -- it adopts the statutes, adopts general acts, the annual work programme, the financial plan, adopts an annual report on business and the final account, and this annual report and the final account, as regulated by Article 14 of the Regulation, is submitted to the ministry of Mr Vlahovic, who is required to notify the government of the Republic of Serbia within 15 days of the date of receipt of the report. What about the Serbian Parliament and the MPs in the National Assembly? The question arises, given that there is a special giro account of this agency -- how will these assets and the financial operations of this agency be expressed in the final account of the budget, and will we have the opportunity to see how much funding has come from donations, how much from the funds that the economic operators, or those who are the service users, have paid for these services? And that won't be small funds, because we note that this agency is profitable, that is, income and works on the income principle. What about those funds, where she will and how she will be used - we will never obviously know about it. I have one question -- what will your ministry do, Mr. Vlahovic? Oh, yeah, you're gonna sell out Serbian companies, and you're probably gonna go to this agency. So there's no knowledge in your ministry. And Mr Djindjic said in his government election that our greatest treasure is that we have knowledge and intelligence. Well, if we have knowledge and brains, then why in article 14, you predict that we're going to hire some other foreigners, smarter than us, who are going to teach us how to make chips out of potatoes. We, Serbia, the Serbian economy, Serbian peasants, don't need that. Leave yourself to some Western models you read on a web site. You give these people and these business entities the opportunity to get to living money and how that money to invest, they know very well, they've learned for these 10 years of hard survival on the market, where they're worth investing, and the risk always exists. You can't free them from that risk. In addition, the question arises who is proposing, how do you choose these board members, whether it will be some clan members, home clans, perhaps your ministry, or Mr Djindjic, or some third clan -- that's what you haven't regulated by this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13924	Is anyone else answering this amendment? Yeah. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13925	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister did not convince us that this bill should be adopted, and in particular he did not convince us by further argument that there would be some conflicting interest between the Development Fund and the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, as if the Fund was not responsible for the projects coming before it being prepared and well done, as if it were the lack of the Development Fund and as if there were some investor in the world who had no services to review the projects and who would help whoever the money was going to pass on, to make such good projects that they also benefit from the money and the money that the money was being paid. This management of the Agency shows us that the Agency will have guardians. The agency is obviously not designed as a kind of system through which the state will conduct education and help and spend state money or money that comes from donations. Well, it's state and people's money, no matter what the minister's name is during whose ministry the money came. That money came to the people. The people have the right to check what happens to that money through those they've authorized. The government is scheduled here to appoint members of the board of directors, supervisors, directors, chairman of the board of directors. I can accept that in the case of public enterprises, so, let's say, agencies like this. It is indicative of why it is not said - the government will appoint members of the board of directors, and the job is done, it says, the government will appoint three board members from the ranks of representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. The question now arises, who are representatives of small, medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs. What kind of association, what kind of congregations there are annually, how it chooses its representatives in various bodies, and especially in one of these bodies. Although I have to admit, and the minister will admit it, for sure, even if at night at the bar, this imaginary board of directors doesn't have any function. Take a look at the competences of the Management Board - to adopt the statutes and to adopt general acts on a proposal from the Director. This board of directors won't run the Agency. He's not allowed to do that by this law. There's no decision at the board meeting. I ask the question, which the minister did not answer, and here I'm going to ask him differently: what if 1,000 representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises turn to the Agency, will you have 2,000 employees or will 15 employees do the order in which to help small and medium-sized enterprises? What's that order going to look like, when it's known that whoever gets to the girl is getting married, about. But when there aren't enough girls, this money is rare and I don't think you've thought about it, but I'm interested in what it's gonna look like? How will the agency convince Serbian citizens that they are doing their work in line with the interests of Serbian citizens, and that before they account for anyone other than the supervisory board to watch the business of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency. We hear here that the current agency has been reporting to the Finance Committee, and I already don't know which Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. I think the government has to communicate with the National Assembly. The government must communicate with the president of the National Assembly, and he is obliged to forward any acts he receives immediately to the People's MPs of the Republic of Serbia. I don't know about the other parliamentary groups, but the MPs of the SRS have never received any paper in which there would be any report on the work of agencies established in February of this year. They say, between 15 and 150, we don't even know how many there are, and we don't know who they've been reporting to, who's been reviewing these reports, and why at least the reports of those who have been reviewing the reports didn't come before the MPs of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Or we have some closed circuits on which to control the work of the Government of the Republic of Serbia... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... And what I think about a government like this, of the plexigas, was unimaginable, I think it was supposed to be very transparent, it was transparent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13926	Is anyone else answering for a word under this amendment? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 44, v. 83, abstention 37, did not vote 28, a total of 192. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. It shall be subject to Article 9 of the amendment, on the basis of Article 145. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to coordinate with the solution contained in the amendment of the MPs Dusan Ilic and Dragan Shormaz to article 10, which became an integral part of the bill's proposal. The Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad has adopted this amendment. Is anyone answering for a word? No, I don't. I am putting the amendment to the vote. For 105, against 40, with 14 abstentions, did not vote 36, a total of 195 national MPs. I find that the National Assembly has accepted this amendment. Members of the 9th amendment were submitted by MPs Dusan Ilic and Dragan Šormaz. MP Dusan Ilic has withdrawn the amendment. Mr. Shormaz, too. I find that this amendment has been withdrawn. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 10th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13927	Mr. Martian, you said three hours ago that you voted in favour of the law in principle to have colleagues who are preconceived, so they'll look at who isn't one of their fellow MPs present and they'll take the cards out. However, more and more of them are in the parliamentary units, and the MPs are getting smaller and smaller in the hall. After explaining this amendment of mine, don't be so nervous, you who put in other people's cards, which is punishable by the Rules of Procedure, and for that you get warnings and get away with MPs from the session, take care. Perhaps the President of the Assembly and apply that provision of the Rules of Procedure. Indeed, it is groundless for me to now tell Minister Vlahovic why I am asking for Article 10 to be deleted, and if it is a normal trail of events, when the board of directors is established that the supervisory board is going after it. Mr. Vlahovic and his associates, those who wrote this law, act as if the Agency for the Privatisation of Small and Medium Enterprises were some kind of company, so there must be both directors and board of directors and supervisors. It has not been defined here, but it is clear that the Supervisory Board is appointed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. I'm going back to that story of mys from earlier, that an interesting group and a circle of people can literally say that they're doing whatever they want. If that were the case, Mr Vlahovic's appearance also tells us after several months in front of MPs in the National Assembly and the fact that we have not received a single report. Remember, Mr. Vlahovic, when we criticised everything that was wrong with the Privatisation Act, which was voted in the spring, when we said it was necessary, that it had to be mandatory and armed, that the amendment included a new member or a new point, which says that the National Assembly of Republika Srpska, as the most legislative body, must have a report on everything you do. And if we hadn't met you for some time in front of the National Assembly building on which the Ministry of Privatisation is relying and, behold, a miracle firm where you were the CEO, one of the authorities in the privatisation process, right next to the National Assembly building, we wouldn't know where you were. The question is whether you yourself and those people who will be members of the board of directors and supervisors will be on a secret mission far hidden from the eyes of the public, and above all from the MPs, because you are today asking the National Assembly to vote on such a law that will establish this agency. You thought, when she broke up at the Mitrovdan session, that the opposition MPs would not come out with such donation data that you received through the federal government and which are strictly addressed to the Republic government, and part of the funds was allocated to the establishment of this agency. But from now on, you need to understand that there is nothing to do, and that is not being pushed through at any level of the executive, whether at the republican or federal, without the Serbian radicals finding out and not being harshly criticised. When you were already forced to join the whole story today, because you saw that we know that it was about confirming a grant agreement from the Trust Fund, of $6 million, today you had to strongly defend your position as to why we need this agency and that it was a completely isolated and different area than what the Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia does. While you are already proposing this supervisory committee that will oversee the legality of the work, I am asking you again, and you now need to, as someone who has a responsible post in the state and the minister is such an important speaker, to answer why so far MPs, at least not SRS MPs (if others are, we don't know) have received one single report on what you have done. It's not funny, it's for one serious answer, you owe it to the entire public and to these MPs here; you haven't delivered a single report since the adoption of the Law on your own transformation. One time in Kragujevac, I said, and then some media reported that you were for that one night, and how much you ate for 25,000 dinars... (President: Mrs. Jovanovic, time. ....................................................................................................... You could offer a much better bill to the MPs than you did. The next day, you said you'd pay, so you didn't pay that bill that you made to a single shoplifting restaurant on the night you made a hell of a plan to fire 15,000 workers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13928	He has the word of Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13929	I had to react, since it was told a series of lies in the previous presentation. First of all, I was not the executive director of the Dilloyt-Tush, but I was co-owner of the Dilloyt-Tush, one of the hundreds of partners in Dilloyt-Tushukoja, has its branches in 118 countries of the world. At the moment of coming here I came out of partnership with other co-owners about which the Serbian Government, and this assembly, should also have paper. On the first day I came here, I showed that paper. I'd like to see that from other participants in the executive government, whether they have, or whether they had while they were involved in the executive government, respecting the principles of conflict of interest. However, the budgetary inspection tells us that they and how they had a conflict of interest and that they had the opportunity to make pretty money completely non-intentional from the budget. The second thing, the Delloyt shower is not, please don't spread false information in this assembly, authorized to privatize. Such an institution does not exist in a consulting, but it is an international auditory house and a consulting house. The third thing, we spent three months here talking about the Privatisation Act, we talked about MP clubs, and it's clear to you that financial advisors are elected in the tender, that they're so chosen as cementists, that they'll be elected by the end of this week for 15 businesses, that they will be elected for 12 new companies. You could hear in public opinion, among other things, that those who lost in these tenders came out, and these are also internationally recognizable, respected financial organisations, financial advisers, and that they said the procedure was completely fair. We didn't have a worse offer, who did it to us. But it's important that everything is transparent and that we not only talk, but we realize it. The next thing I wanted to say when we had the chance to listen to a bunch of false things -- it's not about any secret. The 6m-dollar donation contract with the World Bank was, among other things, ladies and gentlemen of the people's emissaries, the subject of the federal parliament's debate, because the federal parliament ratified the contract. So no one with special channels and connections came to that contract. Among other things, it's on the Federal Government site, and you'll be able to find reports and agencies that were established by that government regulation for what little time did you ask? The next thing you know, as far as the Ministry's report is concerned, visit the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation's site, along the way, you will find out what's going on there, and we invite the MPs of the opposition to regular board meetings where they are members of the Assembly committees. We had a session in August, September. You've had opportunities to get not only a report on the Privatisation Agency, but a detailed review of the Radical Ministry, including reports from the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. So I know that this speaker is a public place which is spectacular, because it's being transmitted directly, but because of the public, I mean there's nothing spectacular about the information on donor aid, the federal parliament has been discussing it, ratified; and I also want to say that this ministry, which the public has had the opportunity to convince countless times, has nothing to hide. On the contrary, the public is a key dam that this ministry will make maximum use of the potential impact of various speculators and manipulators. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13930	He has the word Branislav Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13931	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the president of the parliamentary group has the right to report to every amendment. I understand and understand as minister that the speaker is a spectacular place and that there is a need to show a variety of knowledge, from not saying "current Manian systems" but "carent Manian systems". Only so much about English knowledge. Please, the bottom line is the next story - whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia will look at Serbia's economy, see if there are places in the production process that are necessary and important for the functioning of Serbia's economy and in advance, through the Agency, to propose business programmes that may not be so profitable, but are important for the country to be developed in this country, that not only pizzerias, cafes, pancakes, but also to open production companies that will substitute imports of repromaterials and equipment by producing their products. Today, it is said whether the Government of the Republic of Serbia, if it has not already adopted a real law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is proposed by the Socialist Group, at least now that it has the Agency, will tie up the Development Fund and offer cheap programmes (and we will), cheap money, motivate privates to invest their capital, perhaps in something that is not highly profitable, but instead of 50% to provide 3%, but they get cheap capital from the Fund government to develop it and that this is what the state needs. Finally, the Law on Privatisation, which is unscrupulous to workers, who make businesses, will result in hundreds of thousands of redundancies. The government must create business programs that will employ mass citizenship. How will they stimulate someone who has capital? He'll be stimulated by what he says -- you'll get a five-year loan, a three-year grace period, and the interest is 2%. So he'll risk knowingly providing the capital he has, but he'll open up jobs and hire workers, and that's the whole story. When we talk about the famous abuses, say more, if the budget inspection has been in control and found little or nothing, why did the government of the Republic of Serbia waste state money to hire other control to find what they want those who gave them money.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13932	By amendment, in the absence of Mr. Nikolic? Here you go, and why do you keep wondering? A man can make a mistake, he needs to see if Tomic is there, or Nikolic, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13933	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'm going to take the opportunity not to run away from the minister just because I don't like to speak while he's gone and there's no way to answer, but to give him exactly what he deserves. Namely, the minister knew what I was going to say about this law. First, he didn't mention those baked giraffes, and he didn't answer them. I suspected it was roasted giraffes, and now I think it's true that giraffes were baked. I'm convinced he couldn't answer that. He knew I was gonna ask him that, and that's why he got out of the O.R. As for other things, he didn't flee the country, unlike the other two he was with in Kragujevac. He was allowed to come out the right door, and these other two were running faster and better than their feet were carrying them out the back way. As far as the proposed member is concerned, our goal is of course not to accept this law because it is a bad legal solution, because it is a solution that does not make anything in our economic operators, but only makes our legal life complicated, our legal life anyway; it is a law that did not even have to be a law but could have been done under the law. If the law had already been passed, it had to be done in a different way. As for those calls and every time -- public, public, transparency, I don't know what you're saying, I'm tired of it. Your transparency is just that every time a man asks you something concrete, why that and that in the country doesn't work, why this doesn't work, why this doesn't work, why we have problems, then one of you points that hard and says, and you, you, who are, on the orders of budget inspection, are doing that sort of thing. For the sake of the public and the citizens, there is no here, at least not in the SRS parliamentary group, no criminals, no thieves, anywhere else, and in some other places, in some other political organizations, and no one must insult people in such a way. Not only is there no judicial verdicts, but there are no proceedings anywhere, no one or anyone. So all I have to do is tell you one more thing, don't call for inspections so much. Wait another year, you'll get inspections in everything you've done, and you'll see what the results of those inspections are, and you'll see what those inspections find. Don't make too many calls. Secondly, this law is not good and it is not a question of the exclusivity of the material we have brought from the Federal Assembly. Nothing is exclusive, we just brought it as a fact that the citizens of Serbia understand on the basis of which and why we are passing such a law, and not that I don't know it, any miracle. One more thing, about how money comes into the budget and how it now cares about how to get money into the budget, and not just how to spend it, and that's true, but if that's how much money is coming in, then why did you bring the tax and the trough that's put into the river without any engine, without anything, and that's what the tax has to be paid to. If money is already coming and you care so much about citizens, why are electricity prices so much, why are people so hard to live for, why pay taxes and taxes three times as much as before, why don't you cancel that tax on a mobile phone but increase it by 100%? Is that transparent, is that the difference you were talking about, is that how he cares about it and talks about it? I think that's the thing and that's the difference. I call on MPs, MPs and DSS MPs to vote for our amendments; for one to vote, the whole law will fall, which will be a great happiness for the citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13934	Anybody else answer for a word? If not, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 41, against 92, with 35 abstentions, he did not vote 31, a total of 199 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Members of the 10th amendment were submitted by MPs Dusan Ilic and Dragan Šormaz. The amendment was accepted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible and thus the amendment became an integral part of the bill's proposal. The 11th amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do you want a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13935	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the legislator of the law is in collegiate when he dismembers the functions of the Agency and only one member of the 15th. (on whom I shall have to speak more closely when the amendment is made to Article 15) mentions regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. We are now being referred here by the Proposer to function and responsibility, on the duty and tasks of both the Management and Supervisory Board and the Director, Article 11, and the question must be asked how the regional agencies will be organised. If he's going to have a director, if he's going to have a board of directors, if he's going to have a board of directors, if he's going to have a board of directors, if he's going to have a board of directors, it's up to the law. Or perhaps the director of this agency, as Article 15 provides for the Agency to provide professional assistance (but only for the organisation and coordination of the work and operations of regional agencies), will also be the director of regional agencies. Whether or not these agencies will have some management, whether they are established for the territory of one or more municipalities, they will also carry out the same tasks performed by the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises. If they do the same jobs, then they must have the same structure, which means regional agencies have to have a director. Basically, this is how it's imagined, the director is everything and everyone in the Agency. The board of directors only has a few general jobs. It does not decide at all on business policy and in any way does not interfere with the work of the Small and Medium Enterprises Development Agency, it only executes the director's orders when he invites them and when he proposes a decision, they make the decision, and in the modern world, no board of directors behaves anyway. The management boards of private companies in which the owner decides everything, but only because of meeting the norms and laws, are obliged to have a board of directors, so he hires or some politicians (naturally, with authority, not out of opposition) or some of his friends who allow for the possible additional acquisition of funding to support the family. I think this is how an imaginary director becomes one pillar that no one really can do anything about it. On the one hand, the legislator treats this as a public institution, as something that is under the government's dubious control, and on the other hand gives too much authority to the director of the Agency, as if it were an independent economic operator who must go to the market and manage it or fail. I think there is only a conflict of interest, one of the interests of the government of the Republic of Serbia, to establish this, we argue for one reason, the minister claims from the other, and in the end you will, most of the votes here, resolve what is the primary interest here. On the other hand, the Government gives up a large part of the Agency's management and leaves it to the Board of Directors, but exclusively to the Director of the Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises, which is the immediate development of a power structure. It doesn't matter, both in regional and in this central, what to call it, the agency, who will be the director, how it will understand this job and how much it will affect which small and medium-sized enterprises will be better, faster, with better support, with a better programme, with better consultations to develop, and which will remain in the seal. Maybe even because the agency won't have the capacity to react quickly to his business plan, to review him, to help him, to supplement him, but to be on some waiting list. During that time, someone with the same idea or someone who buys ideas in the agency itself, which is the most profitable market - the market for ideas, contact the Agency and before the basic choice of ideas comes to order and before it reaches finance. It's a custom for you in this business world -- the first one to work, the one to earn a little more money, and the rest of them have to suffer competition afterwards. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13936	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 49, against 94, with 35 abstentions, 25, a total of 201 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. On Article 12, the amendment was submitted by MP Alexander Vukic. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept the amendment. Does the promoter want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13937	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think it would be important to adopt this amendment, because the adoption of the whole law, in principle and in particular, would be partially unthinked, or other acts should regulate the establishment of the Agency and through which acts, general and individual, could operate such an agency. The activities of the agencies shall be listed in the Statute. For those who are not sufficiently informed, and especially because of the citizens, I will read part of what should represent the Agency's work, so that people do not think that this agency will provide some real help to our small and medium-sized enterprises, that it will benefit greatly from it. Namely, "The Agency performs the work of consulting and business management; it participates in the preparation of a strategy for developing and proposing economic policy measures to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises; it prepares and provides professional assistance for the coordination of specialised investment funds programmes; it provides expert assistance in the realization of domestic and foreign investments in small and medium-sized enterprises." It is precisely the essence of what Minister Vlahovic had just denied, saying that the consulting companies do not participate, i.e. that Dilloyt-Tush is not participating in privatisation. No, but he's taking part as one of the consulting firms that I think is, to date, one of the top five global firms, the only one who has entered our market, seems to me, if I'm not mistaken, but the minister has more important business talking on a cell phone. In any case, it seems to me, and I think it would be good if it wasn't provided for by law like this and if citizens were left alone, that is, if less opportunities were allowed to give arbitration powers to such agencies and such consulting services companies. I'm not getting into whether someone was or was an executive director, as far as I'm concerned. Then the minister said he owned one of the company's owners, not the executive director. It's particularly interesting that this firm is right in a building where the Ministry of Privatisation is, nothing else, and it seems to me, not so long and not so long ago, but recently. Maybe it's just an accident. I would say that, under the conditions of falling industrial production, in a really more difficult economic mile of the Republic of Serbia, we must find the right way to help grow production, develop above all private sector, but also state-owned enterprises, to see what are the serious and objective criteria that we can influence to speed up production. And not only how and how fog will be sold, and how and in what way in the sale of fog can as much of it be clouded in public and people thinking -- that is, how much does it seem to help people and citizens, how someone is particularly reform-oriented. I just forgot what that word meant. If these reforms are constant additions, constant price increases, real wage declines, maybe even nominal growth, but certainly a real decline, then we do not need such reforms. They never were. One more thing, which I am obliged to point out - Mr. Vlahovic is not a stupid man, I'm sure he knows well that what you get, even if only six million dollars (which for one serious state is nothing significant), we didn't get in the sight of it and we didn't get it because someone was particularly successful in their perfunctory reforms or so on. reforms, however you want, but if we got it to do something. Well, these people won't give you lunch for free, not for ladies, let alone for countries to give huge money, because they like someone, because they like someone. Mr. Vlahovic knows that. They gave it because we are obliged to meet their large political conditions, because they want to govern this country as a colony, because they want to be able to ask and receive at all times what they ask of this country and this people. We are going to lose more and more of our country and people because of all this, and every time we get carried away and talk -- well, they love us very much, thanks to our reforms, they've reduced our debt or they've given us money. No, they're not. (President: Time. They're just expecting some money from us right now. So far they haven't had them, so it's easy for them to say, don't give us three billion, but give us a billion and a half. And from what, how, how do you find that money? They've never been here before. Where will we find them now, when we are not able to fill our own budget from our own sources, given the needs of our people, our citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13938	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'll put this amendment to the vote. For 51, against 90, with 37 abstentions, 27, a total of 205 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. The 13th Amendment was submitted by MP Gordana Pop-Lazic. The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have not adopted this amendment, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13939	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 13, is a key member of this law. It refers to the fact that other legal and natural persons, domestic or foreign persons, may be employed by the Agency in order to carry out certain professional tasks under its jurisdiction. What exactly is behind this? Money so-called. the donor, who has given a church to start work or to work this agency, and the money is lying on the Agency's account, means not on the budget account, but on some account uncontrollable by this assembly - and then we do not know (this law is not regulated) who decides on who these minds are to be consultants; who is here in the country, who is the smartest; who is the institution, which is the institution; or, abroad, who is the one who has enough knowledge and intelligence to help with these jobs that concern primarily professional support, professional assistance, education and so forth. Who do you think that's gonna be? It will be the same ones who, in the form of donations, gave some church to this agency, in support of this government, which promised in the election campaign that some money from abroad would come in the form of donations. The donors and those foreigners who supported today's government, then the opposition, keep those promises, and the money comes. And then the modes are made, these and similar agencies are formed, which should only be used to launder money, or only to enter money from abroad through one account and to return that same money to those who gave it. Those who have failed to understand this do not understand the purpose of these agencies at all, because in this country (in addition to the ministry that must be in its composition, and there is, a department for small and medium-sized enterprises or resorts) the Development Fund, which has the opportunity to do this job without relying on foreign minds. We keep boasting that we have enough brains, and for the export of praise we have, except here it's not a matter of wit, but it's big money that's supposed to come from donations. Don't ask Mr. Vlahovic, neither you nor Mr. Labus to misinformed this public and to say that we have two-thirds of the debt written off. What's written off for us? Who owes who here? Will you tell me once that someone owes this country? This country owes the NATO Pact war damage. Do you know what this war damage is? You know and you have the information. Did you give up that war damage? You gave up. First of all, you were supposed to settle the bills, so let's see who he owes. They owe us, we forgive them, not us. Take care of what you say. Your interest was written off, your debts remained -- our debts didn't have to be paid. You gave up: the gold that Serbia has brought into this common state, the gold bars; you gave up the embassy; you are doing the succession to harm this country. That's why one day, not this budget inspection that you're threatening, but many other inspections and many other authorities will be dealing with, in a year, two years. But, Mr. Vlahovic, it won't be easy for you, believe me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13940	The word is Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13941	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, it is true that this entire project is worth six million dollars; but for the Agency which is today, the Agency which is the subject of this bill, when it was agreed in September, not for its establishment -- because it was already established in February by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, so it did not come under the same heading as the Foreign Investment Agency, an agency that had to be set up, so it is intended to finance its establishment. Therefore, only $470,000 is foreseen for the functioning and institutional strengthening of the Agency. If the Government of the Republic of Serbia sets up regional agencies (and not be in every municipality because the government has already predicted that certain municipalities either do not have enough business or do not have a high unemployment rate), but if they establish only 150 regional agencies, this means that around 3,000 dollars from this donation could be used by one regional agency, of course, with all the approvals that the Trust Fund has left for itself. That means we're writing here a bill on a six-million dollar donation, which Ellen Peterson predicted, but for this agency that we're discussing today, or for the agencies that we're discussing today, we have $470,000 at our disposal, or I'm counting about 3,000, it might be a little less or a little bit more, per agency. Is it worth the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to call for such amounts to be held at a session and offered a whole bill, so that one such insignificant figure could be accepted in the form of a donation. Our minister here reports that 66% of our debts to the Paris Club of Trustees have been written off, which is in the Western legislation as if you were sentenced to 100 years in prison, so you're a free man and he says, "I'm taking it down to 40 years, but I'm coming to you as a prisoner, and a man loses his freedom; they've stripped him of 60 years, and he's got to serve 40 in prison and he's no longer at large, among the living." So it will be with the repayment of those 34% who are not forgiven by God, and even we have a grace period of four years, a period in which we will enter into new loans, and the noose around our throat is increasingly tightening, because we, like the people who are looking for these loans, other than goodwill and acceptance of all conditions, have no industrial production that can cover it and that such borrowing abroad can carry. As a result, Article 13. that the Agency will engage domestic and foreign, legal and natural persons to carry out certain professional activities. And this was the project's task, to immediately provide that assistance in the functioning and institutional strengthening of the Agency should also be foreseen through the provision of consulting services, training and material resources. Really inappropriate for one country, for one National Assembly, I'm not saying it's inappropriate for the government. This government no longer distinguishes what is inappropriate for her, but for those of us chosen by the people, it is inappropriate to discuss such amounts under such humiliating conditions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13942	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 47, against 93, with 37 abstentions, 23, 200 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Natasa Jovanovic submitted to the 14th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? He has the word National MP Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13943	Well, here we are, nearing the end of the debate on the law in particular, on amendments. As for Article 14, it says that the Agency for its work will respond to the government of the Republic of Serbia. Now again, the question arises -- who will the government answer for its work, to which specifically Minister Vlahovic? The assembly's majority will be asked a question soon - whether a parliamentary group, which is today abstained from such a bill and is aware itself that the needless establishment of such an agency, that the Agency has already functioned since February of the month, and by Regulation (and these are over 100 unconstitutional) of the government of the Republic of Serbia, will be able to get the strength to recall such a minister and such a government at all. Until that happens, we need to keep in mind some facts, and I would especially like to point out that the terms of using these donation funds and these $470,000, which are made out of $6 million for the Agency for the Privatisation of Small and Medium Enterprises, are precisely defined. So, for domestic market purchases, less than $50,000. This is all strictly dictated by Ellen Peterson, or already by an aging fund; international purchases of less than $100,000; involvement of consultants, where the donor bank approves the selection of consultants by procedure of consideration and approval, even in the stages of planning selection and previous consideration. This humiliation is inappropriate for MPs of the National Assembly, for our people as a whole and for the Republic of Serbia, because if you already wanted to accept these conditions that they gave you from the International Trust Fund, you could or Mr Labus, who negotiated on behalf of the Federal Government, to say that much more important and much bigger problems at this time in the economy than we need to establish the Agency for the Privatisation of Small and Medium Enterprises. The biggest problem, Mr. Vlahovic, besides all the burning problems, is certainly the problem of the flag group in Kragujevac. If you had a little hearing, since they've already given you such charity, you could have invested $6 million and focused on the protection workshops project, as you've already called them, and not to (this is the second time I'm potentialing) over 400 workers, disabled workers, don't know what's going to happen to them. From month to month, they are promised that protection workshops will start working, and in the flag group, from one society to another is a real confusion and there is no telling what's going to happen to them. It says here that the Agency's work is being supervised by the Ministry of State. It's not just an indeterminateness, but maybe some space to manipulate, I don't know what, if that didn't even stand out clearly in reason. You might want to take a look at it, in article 14. It's just a -- a competent ministry. You didn't write down which ministry it was. One more thing, if we're already talking about the need to, as you say, flexible layoffs of workers, these workers are directed to get jobs in small and medium-sized enterprises, please explain to me -- which is a group of workers, a group, not just one individual, who got under such terms, a severance of only 200 German marks for each year of internships, for 30 years 6 thousand marks. With which it is possible to set up any company or to do so by a group of workers, when that amount is not sufficient in such a situation, in such an increase in the cost of life or for a naked survival, for the consumer basket of a family within a year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13944	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. ). I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 49, against 95, abstentioned 41, 23, a total of 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Now it's 17.45 hours, we've only got a few more amendments, but we're going to step down in time after 18.00 hours, so I suggest we make a decision to keep working until this agenda is over. Please plead. For 134, against 34, abstentions 6, was not voted 33, a total of 207 MPs. I realize we've made a decision to work overtime until the end of this agenda. Under Article 14(2) of the amendment, MP Dragan Markovic submitted. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? There's a word from MP Dragan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13945	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Unity Party has proposed only one amendment to this law, we believe that the law is not bad and that is why we have only proposed this amendment. I'll tell you what's going on. In Article 14(2), the words "the competent ministry" are replaced by the words "the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". In the 3rd sentence, the "competent Ministry" is replaced by the words "the competent committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia", and the words "Government of the Republic of Serbia" are replaced by the words "The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia". I think this amendment allows you to control the Agency's work. The law is good, not bad, and that is why this congregation needs to monitor its work, that is, the Agency’s work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13946	He has the word Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13947	The amendment of MPs, Mr Dragan Markovic, is essentially acceptable, from the government's point of view. However, I must just point out that the government has accepted the amendment of the DSS parliamentary group, where what is wanted is achieved, which is that there is a regular reporting by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Because, on the other hand, it would be very dangerous for the oversight of the application of the law to come to the Assembly, or the competent committee of the congregation, because I fear that this provision would not be possible legally. I think it is essential that the Assembly be informed in due time and that the committee responsible, together with the competent ministry, so the Ministry of Economy and Privatisation, be regularly referred to the tasks carried out by the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises, while the supervision remains where it belongs, which is at the level of the Government, or the competent ministry. That's why I'm saying -- what the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group was looking for is essentially being fulfilled. This is that the National Assembly and the competent committee are not only fully and timelyly informed, but also given the opportunity to respond adequately if they do not agree with the relevant projects, i.e. the Small and Medium Enterprises Agency's tasks, and this is done by installing the amendments proposed by the DSS MPs, who the government has accepted and proposed to accept. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13948	If no one ever answers their word again, I'm putting the amendment to the vote. For 21, against 84, with 74 abstentions, 29 of the 208 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The 14th amendment was submitted by MPs Dusan Ilic and Drgan Sormaz, who accepted the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible, thus making the amendment an integral part of the proposal. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, The government and the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with abroad have accepted the Amandan, and the Legislative Committee considers the amendment legally possible. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13949	Here, to ease some MPs from the DOS Group, this is the last amendment I submitted to the bill. However, that is not the reason for your joy and your liquefying, because such a legal project will be adopted. And because this is just one more signal that these and similar dictatorships from financial powers, your mentors from the West, will be more and more, and it won't start the production process and it won't make us have an increase in industrial production. Indeed, it was inappropriate today to assess and compare Minister Vlahovic's decline in production by only 1.4%, when it is known that in that defeating year after NATO's senseless aggression, we managed to restore the infrastructure in a very short time and restore production only in the flag that was successful for the first three months of 2000, and this is an interesting piece of information for you. This article. 15. Not only is it cynical, but it is really from the moral aspect of each individual, each member of the government is inappropriate because it says: The government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to organise a network of professional support for small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can set up regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises. Explain, Mr. Vlahovic, what kind of agreement you will make with Rugova, Hans Hekerup and how you will organize these agencies in Kosovo-Pomoravska, Prizrenska and in the Pećko district. There indeed, in addition to all your propaganda, against all the deception that came out there, I don't know how many Serbs, that percentage is not more than 4%, and it's known to be one faceless robbery, stealing votes. How are you going to explain to these Serbs, who are going to fight for survival there and who are hard to survive, and will be a little worse, after the legalisation of the Ship's occupation authority, that you will set up there agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, when it is known that all the regulations, in principle we are the masters of life and death, are prescribed by Hans Hekerup and his associates, Shiparian bandits and terrorists. Explain how it is possible to install such a thing in a member of the law, something that offends the dignity of the Serbian people, and especially those who cannot return to their homes and above all which of you as a member of the government, regardless of your portfolio is a property transformation, as well as representatives of the entire DOS and DSS, who allegedly reluctantly invited voters to the elections, as well as their president, Kostunica, how you will explain the fate of over 1,500 missing and kidnapped Serbs [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13950	Call for an encore. If it's not on the encore, nothing, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13951	Interesting behavior for a young moon. This is usually tied to a full moon. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, try some more seriousness to get into your work, don't just wait for a final statement on whether the law is passed in general or not. This member is problematic and interesting because of the presentation of Minister Vlahovic. Today, he said that regional chambers of commerce will also set up a development council, some from Europe, and private entrepreneurs, from the region. He forgets that Article 15 is clear: only the Government of the Republic of Serbia can establish regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship across the territory of the Republic of Serbia. The question is, did you at least agree with that Canca and the Cancolics whether they'd let you into the Vojvodina territory to organize it there? Has anyone consulted that tobacco factory in Rovinj? They'll probably fall into small and medium-sized enterprises, and already someone's done the lab, the business plan, they probably delivered everything to you. I'm very interested in how the agency has consulted on the factory. What's immersive here now? First of all, I would ask you ministers to stop looking at what the unemployment rate is and how many enterprises there are in Serbia, because since you've been looking at it, they've been coming at each other. There are fewer companies working and an increasing unemployment rate, more and more workers on the street since you took over, and first DHSS took over, so I ask them how many cars were produced. Since you took care of the car factory, there has been a new decomposition of the flag, and I don't know why you don't say that about this pay phone, where half of those who are now employed and employed will go to the WHO, so-called. The flag of employment and education. So probably the data you're going to count on if any small and medium-sized enterprises development agencies need to be innovated every day. But now there's something else that's bothering me. Why don't you tell me how many employees the agencies will have, how many employees the regional agencies will have because you predict, in Section 3, that the Agency is providing professional assistance necessary for the organisation of the work and business of regional agencies. If there are 150 regional agencies, how many employees will be in the Agency and only work on setting up regional agencies. A huge number of employees are needed, and everyone has to be extremely professional and extremely quality. You know about that law on geometrical multiplication of bureaucracy: two workers - brigadeer, four workers - two brigades and managers, 8 workers - four brigades, two managers and already some boss. That's how it's gonna be with this agency you've already predicted by the regional agency. And there will seem to be a lot of employees, and for these 470,000 dollars of other people's money, we get as donations by 2004, there will be a lot of money from the Republic of Serbia's budget just for the work of those agencies. I can't call this a law on the Agency. This is a law on agencies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13952	If no one ever answers for a word again, I'm putting on a gallant amendment. For 54, against 99, abstentioned 40, no vote was taken by 17, a total attendance of 210. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Radojko Petric submitted to the 15th amendment. The Government, the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with Foreign Affairs and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13953	Honored Presidency, honourable MPs, respected ministers, in Article 15(1). The bill says that the government of the Republic of Serbia, in order to organise a network and provide professional support to small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurs across the territory of the Republic of Serbia, can set up regional agencies for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and enterprises. I submitted the amendment to the first position and suggested that the following amendment be made: that the text "can be set up by a regional development agency" and that instead of "can" it be said "the government is established in the headquarters of regional chambers of commerce and in Belgrade a regional agency for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship". So it's not college, it's law to be set up at least in the headquarters of regional chambers. In submitting the amendments, I had in mind the current situation in the country, a large number of unemployed, the need for accelerated transition and integration into world economic flows, and that the agency could play a positive role. Not to the extent that the Socialist Party has proposed a law to provide resources and ways of financing small enterprises, but in any case, this agency can contribute in part and encourage this development. The role of the agency will be much more successful with the help of regional chambers of commerce. I had in mind this proposal that there are 14 regional chambers in Serbia and in particular the Belgrade Chamber of Commerce. Individually, chambers cover 10 municipalities with over 400,000 inhabitants. The funds provided for the establishment and later for the work of these 15 regional chambers, i.e. the agency would be quick to pay off, the economy would be paid off and would benefit the Republic of Serbia. When proposing that agencies be necessarily established at least in regional chambers of commerce and Belgrade, I had in mind and the necessity of ensuring even regional development, as it is also a constitutional obligation to encourage regional development in the area of Serbia, that certain areas should not be neglected. It should not happen that in terms of helping and developing these businesses, certain areas are favoured for who knows what reasons and others to neglect. In the position of the 2nd member, a quite acceptable proposal has been made that regional development agencies can be established for the territories of one or more municipalities on this proposal to the Government, my amendment does not apply. So, the possibility remains, since the government suggested it, let it be kept. It is my suggestion to establish a bar in chamber areas. However, the materials that we received from the government that expressed her views on the amendments submitted show that my amendment is not fundamentally seen at all. I'm not surprised not to accept my amendment by the government, but I'm surprised by their incomplete and superficial consideration of the proposal. My proposal is not to establish a maximum of 15 regional development agencies, my proposal is to set up 15 regional agencies in chamber headquarters and Belgrade. It is desirable, and my proposal is not contrary to that, and what is wrongly interpreted in the material, that agencies can be established for smaller areas, for one, two or three municipalities.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13954	Thank you. National e-mailman Branislav Ivković.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13955	Your Honor, I'm sure we shouldn't have continued our work because after six hours of patience, patience is weak and mostly when I go out, I hear "don't Bane." Well, Bane has to get out, because Bane worked in the economy, worked with businessmen, and he knows very well how hard it is to come up with a real business program, win technology, win tools, teach workers, secure resources and secure the market. It's no joke to run the business. You've been told here. You compare the results at a time when Serbia is free and loved, and Yugoslavia, with last year when it was under the embargo. And still production, dear Mr. Minister, was higher and more quality last year than this year when we are very loved in the world. Please, Mr. Radojko Petric says nicely in the amendment, and I do not understand the government of the Republic of Serbia in the same trend, at least to set up agencies where regionals are commercial chambers, and may be more. But the legislator obliges the agency to go wherever the regional chambers are to set up the agency. Nothing more. Oh, it's more than that. Why is the government against it, the Holy God knows. But I have to tell you, when we did a law on support and development of small and medium-sized enterprises, which, unlike this unnecessary law, is completely complete, because it has sophisticated knowledge, education, but it also has capital to support what is in Serbia's interests, with cheap money, and not with expensive money from the bank, then we passed all the regional chambers of commerce. All businessmen, state, social and private business owners, have shown us that it is very important that in every location where the headquarters of the regional chambers of commerce is formed and the regional agency, which will offer the business programmes behind which the profession stands, it is estimated that the development of these specific routes is important and necessary for the area where the regional Chamber of Commerce is located. Because production programmes must be developed adequately with resource potentials, both in terms of natural resources and in terms of the staff that this job knows how to do. That's a lot of serious stuff. Don't look at what the Socialists suggest, forget about it, vote for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13956	Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. I put this amendment to the vote. For 52, v 97, abstentioned 39, did not vote 19, total present 207. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. Member of the 16th Amendment was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic (deviating from the amendment). I find the amendment has been withdrawn. National emissaries Dusan Ilic and Dragan Šormaz submitted to the 16th amendment. Dusan Ilic and Dragan Shormaz have withdrawn the amendments. I find the amendment has been withdrawn. This ended the search of the draft law in particular and the decision on amendments. He's got a job as a representative of the proposed law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13957	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank you for a very comprehensive debate on the law on the agency to encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises and entrepreneurship. I think at the end of the debate today we realized the difference between the Development Fund and the Central Agency for the Development of Small and Medium Enterprises. I think it is clear to all of us that the government's policy is to strongly support the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, that through the central agency, which we will establish by adopting this law, defines the methodology for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises, and that regional agencies, which will be established in each region, and in every major place within the region, do policy implementation for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises. This law does not prevent business chambers, entrepreneurs, from preventing associations of private initiative from setting up their regional agencies. They will only mark the government of the Republic of Serbia if they implement a methodology defined by the central agency. We need a unique approach to benefit, to have a truly developed part of a flexible economy called small and medium-sized enterprises. So that tomorrow we can resist the challenges of the global economic recession when it happens, that we have stable economic development and that we have new jobs. We need new jobs after the ten-year collapse of this economy. We will make the privatisation law a quality of existing jobs, create new jobs in existing businesses, create large new investments, create opportunities to develop those industries that do not exist today, and create new jobs there, and small and medium-sized enterprises to develop an existing enterprise initiative and create a large number of new jobs in a flexible economy. Once again, on behalf of the Ministry and Government, I thank you for a very constructive discussion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-11-19-0.u13958	I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I put the draft law on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development, in general. For 112, against 52, with 40 abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 211 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has passed a bill on the Agency for Small and Medium Enterprises Development. We'll continue work tomorrow at 10.00 hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the Second Session of the Second Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, there are 137 MPs present today. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that they are ready to attend the following MPs: Nada Kolundžija, Vasilija Pavicevic, Radmilo Milosevic, Milos Lukić, Višnja Nežić, Nenad Lemajić, Milos Lučić, Melank Shandor, Dragor Hiber, Vladimir Garčević, Pal Shandor, Marko Djurisic, Branislav Pomorijski, Sredoje Mihajlov, Dragan Jočić, Biači Anton and Predrag Bajčetić. Zeljko Tomic is late, and Torde Lasslo is prevented from attending in the morning. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. We're continuing our work on the agenda. We move to the 9th item of the agenda: - PROPOSAL OF THE CONTRACTING LAW You have received a bill submitted by a group of 8 MPs, as well as the material "Employment chambers in market economies - side of experience" to use when considering the bill. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the bill. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by MPs Zivica Predojev, Dragan Kovacevic, Vukosav Tomasevic, Branimir Trajkovic, Radojko Petrovic, Dragisa Marinkovic, Tomislav Nikolic, Natasa Jovanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazic and Aleksandar Vukic, the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as amendments to the legislator. You have received a notice from MP Radoslav Veselinović, representative of the motion, on the withdrawal of Amendments 1 to Article 2. You have received the Government's opinion on the amendments made. You have received reports from the Committee on Development and Economic Relations with the Foreign and Legislative Committee. Before opening a principle search, I remind you that, according to Article 90. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the total time of debate, in principle for parliamentary groups, is five hours, and that this time is allocated to parliamentary groups in proportion to the number of MPs of the parliamentary group. Is there any other proposal regarding the length of the debate in principle? No, I don't. ) I would like to inform you that according to parliamentary groups, the time of debate is 54 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Serbian Radical Party 27 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Party of Serbian Unity 16 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - New Serbia 10 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - the League of the Social Democrats of Vojvodina - the League of the League for the Shumadija 8 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - the Reformists of Vojvodina and the Sandzak Democratic Party 7 minutes, the parliamentary group of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica - Movement for Democratic Serbia 6 minutes. I ask the MPs' groups, if they have not already done so, to file statements for the word, with a order of MPs, and to indicate whether or not they are defined for or against. I can conclude that the presidents of the parliamentary groups have delivered the lists of speakers. Before I open the principle search, and since it's already been a lot of suggestions, we've already agreed on planning tomorrow's session, on working hours for tomorrow, so there's been a proposal to do it by 2:00, until the break, because of the great fame, and that the time of the MPs could be planned, although there was a proposal that we weren't working tomorrow, so I'm asking you to make it clear. The most suggestions were to work until the break. I'm asking you to make that decision right now and let us know that we're going to be working tomorrow by 1400 hours. For 136, against four, abstentions nine, 24, a total of 173 MPs did not vote. I realize we've made a decision that we'll be working tomorrow by 1400 hours. I'm opening a principled search. Does the proposing representative, MP Radoslav Veselinović, want a word? Here you go.
