ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10166	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, in accordance with Article 79. Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, which regulates the time of the session, I suggest that today the extraordinary National Assembly be held up to 18 hours. That's right, gentlemen, you've offered yourself. [[You can't hear a lot of comments.]] Be good enough to hear the explanation. Because one day it may happen that your leaders are also traveling to the middle of nowhere. Therefore, I ask the National Assembly to state that today is up to 18 hours. At 18 o'clock in the Republic Square, a large protest rally against The Hague is being held. That's a national question. So, please let the National Assembly declare that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10167	Mr. Baralic. I'm making Mr. Baralic's suggestion that today the National Assembly is working until 18 o'clock. For 43, against 106, there were no abstentions, five out of 154 MPs voted. I find that the National Assembly has not adopted Mr Baralic's proposal that we work today until 18 hours. The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic came to the floor, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10168	Ladies and gentlemen, in his address last night, the minister misread my words. In my presentation, I said that I doubt that citizens in the free division will get something more significant, because under the law that is before us citizens only share actions in privatising large enterprises, which are privatised by the method of public tender. Such companies are very few, hundreds. Given the large number of citizens, very few shares will be distributed to citizens free of charge. In his presentation, the minister said that I was disabling the public and that citizens would get the actions of our largest companies, such as Telekom, such as NIS, such as EPS, etc. Mr. Minister, in the light of this law, I now quote: "From the very difference in the definition of state and social property, it can be concluded that the prejudicial objective of the law is to privatise entities operating by means of social property." So this law primarily deals with social property and calls for privatisation of social property rather than state property. Even that is decadent and said, "The legislator does not limit the time limit for privatising entities operating with state property assets." So the state property will remain even after four years and will be privatised perhaps in some future period, but that period is significantly longer than this four year period. This means that, in due course, Serbian citizens will not have, under this law, any or symbolic action in the privatisation process. For the simple reason that a small number of enterprises in social property are privatised by a public tender, which is small capital, a large number of citizens, and the amount will be symbolic. And when they come to the turn of public enterprises, the odds can immediately go to full privatisation, over 49%, so they're going to have to leave at least at first that the state has a re-determining influence, so the citizens will be left without action in due course, and I have to plead precisely - for the next ten years, and maybe more. Which puts citizens, i.e. employees, working in these public tender companies, and other citizens working in other companies or not working at all. The law also left without any possibility and employees in public services, means all budgetary users, in education, in justice, in health, in the police, in the state administration, without any possibility and any right to action under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10169	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic. The next reported is Predrag Patic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10170	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, after the topic and debate on the constitutional framework for Kosovo and Metohija, this issue of privatisation is of importance and gravity right behind this topic. And for what? Because the issue of privatisation is a taboo topic for every worker, because he thinks about his job, thinks about his salary, think about life's existence. Normally, everyone is afraid for their jobs, for their stay in the company, because if he hasn't received his salary, and if he spent most of his working time on paid and unpaid leave, he was still hoping for something. He was hoping for the DOS promise you gave him in the election campaign. There's no hope for you now. Reality is coming to an end. Their own transformation of social and state capital took place in our country for a period of less than or more. By 1994 44% of total capital was privatised, and then in 1994 there was an audit and cancellation of everything that was then privatised so-called. Djindjic's revaluation. The economic policy of a single country is effective to the extent that it manages to create optimal conditions for the functioning of the economic system, in which it is produced rationally to satisfy the material interests of economic operators and citizens in general. The total economic performance results are expressed by the size of the national income, which is allocated according to a given criterion. The main objective of economic policy is economic development and economic prosperity in general, and the success of this depends on the quality of life and maintenance of all other areas of organised social activity. Economic development is shown not only by national income but also by employment rates, general level of prices and services, exchange rate and rational availability of resources. With its objectives, economic policy is regularly focused on improving the economic situation of society, but given that they are determined by excessive political factors, they are often burdened by disagreement with wishes and possibilities, by a non-economic approach in the choice of priorities. Dilems occur for more relations, such as whether the economic growth rate is more important or fairer distribution of national income, whether it is more important to accumulate or reduce unemployment. A positive growth rate and a favourable balance of payments with abroad, full employment, low inflation rates and stable prices, the objectives of each economic policy are set. Ladies and gentlemen, all attempts at economic reform in a socialist society, with the preservation of social property, have ended in failure. It is indisputable that socialism's dideology has failed to penetrate the essence of the market and its legality. Obviously, when the problem of privatisation is put on economic grounds, they don't seem complicated. If people can have money so they can buy goods, why can it not be acceptable for the social enterprise to become a slave and be bought by a private, legal person? The Serbian Radical Party advocates an economic structure based on known property owners. Privatisation is a necessary and necessary condition of the entire market system, but its implementation must involve buying enterprises for finished money and old foreign savings. Privatisation must be carried out under the supervision of the public and with the direct responsibility of the state and the authorities of the local state, depending on the strategic importance of the company, its size and number of employees. In the privatisation process, the state, government and local self-government authorities must ensure a real price of social capital, the security of collection from future owners and address employee issues. The economic development strategy must define the activities in which privatisation will be carried out as soon as possible. It is also necessary to define strategic actions, in which the majority ownership of the state needs to be maintained. In the privatisation process, all errors in the transition of countries in the environment must be avoided, which, applying the prescribed shock therapy of Western senior doctors, have led their countries to a catastrophic position. All the countries in the environment, which in the 1990s uncritically implemented privatisation, are now facing low social growth rates, low standards, destroyed production and poor prospects for development. They turned their production plants into stock stores of Western countries. And Mr. Prime Minister Djindjic said about this pay phone -- we'll sell the market. If that happens, then really this program has nothing to do with it. Ladies and gentlemen, if we look at the economic map of the entire Serbia, we will see that since the 5th October DOS revolution, you have to admit that no economic branch has returned to the previous level of production, let alone that there has been an increase in production. All that you promised voters, you didn't meet, it didn't come true, and that's: six billion dollar donations you needed to start and revitalize the economy and production -- they're gone, you'll probably get them now, when you deliver the Serbs to The Hague. You think that in the first tender bids, several profitable domestic companies will attract strategic foreign partners and thus provide capital for new programmes and business. We saw this in Montenegro, out of great media noise, noise and promises, there's nothing. I'm afraid by the appearance of our domestic customers, whose capital (money) they want to buy the factory, is of dubious origin. I'm saying this because we have the continuity of a criminalized state. It's a symbiosis between the mafia, politics and businessmen, which is completely preserved. That instead of a liberal ideal, where officials stay and politicians change, we have a system where criminals stay and politicians change. Today we have a holding company and businessmen who have become this through extreme, dubious activities -- it's about drug trafficking, cigarettes, oil, etc. Most often, this capital is owned by those who were in JUL by yesterday, or the SPS, and are now in DOS ranks. They came to you to sponsor you, to preserve and increase their stolen capital, as well as many of your ranks. It is necessary to preserve the sale of workers' companies, many who are co-affiliated and medically downgraded, so that it does not happen, because they cannot provide maximum work capacity, so as not to be fired, a social map should be made. The DOS's coming to power has cut off total privatisation, but it does not break down for DOS officials. They're in this vacuum looking for profitable factories for themselves. He was honored to be Mr. Djindjic's advisor, Mr. Dragas. The latest case is with many banks in Serbia, so it happened that the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, Mr Dinkic, closes the Sabačka Banka. She hasn't been invisible one day since her founding, all the claims were that day's closure, they had their basis on the bill. On the arrival of the new government, this bank was immediately declared undesirable and it was constantly granted new conditions. This bank has 25,000 current accounts. He also pays pension pensioners, 70% of the Sabbath economy had its own business through the account of the Sabačka banka, and the Sabbath businessmen are its founders. It was actually a condition of closure. Today, the accounts of many companies and companies in Sapco are blocked, workers do not receive salaries, and many have lost their salaries because they have not been able to raise them, as Mr. Governor shut down the bank during the night, probably carried with the experience of doing so by the minister of justice, Mr. Batic. The president of the municipality, Mr. Dusan Petrovic, drew money for the municipality, and for factory workers it was not done and it was a big mistake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10171	Mr. Zivanovic, I have to interrupt your analysis. You're already 12 minutes past the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10172	Mr. Vlahovicu, what about the tobacco factory in Šumadia, which has no tradition.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10173	Mr. Zivanovic, thank you, really, it's 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10174	I'd like to read it, I only have one paragraph.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10175	Why did you analyze why you were talking past the subject, I'm sorry. All equally are subject to minutes of limitations.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10176	Ladies and gentlemen, every day meeting with the citizens of Serbia, for a reason they are angry with us, MPs. Citizens approve that anyone who comes out for this pay phone comes out with the goal of bringing up the citizens' problem. It has been said that the Assembly, as a legislative body, has been tasked with controlling the executive and judicial authority, independent of the person they represent. But citizens are angry at us, sitting in benches and our behavior, as if we were children in kindergarten, not taking seriously the situation in which the country is located, contributing to the unserious work of this Parliament. The chairman must also have hearing, strength, the will to be just where he is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10177	The chairman has the strength and will to give you a notice under Article 101. I'm giving you a warning about time travel, 13 minutes. Sir, you're talking about the seriousness of state affairs, and you've exceeded the time of three minutes, how long is the right of replication or violation of the Rules of Procedure. The word has a folk MP, Predrag Patic, and the next is MP Milutin Svedovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10178	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the Democratic Party has been in the past two days since this discussion, under this law on privatisation, often mentioned by SPS MPs as a non-discipline party, because in time it advocated a different concept of privatisation, a voucher privatisation, and now advocates this concept as it is before you. The Voucher concept of privatisation was the concept of privatisation that the Democratic Party advocated, but in one very different condition, not in what our country is today. We stood up for that concept at a time when we had companies that worked, when we had employees, when we had companies that didn't have blocked accounts, which had repromaterials and which, most importantly, had a market. Then there was anything to be shared with the workers, then there was anything to be shared with the citizens. We're in a completely different situation today, and there's none of that today. We don't even have companies that work, we don't have unblocked accounts, we don't have employees and we don't have a market. What do we share today for the workers? That is why we have defined ourselves, along with our DOS coalition partners, for this concept, as it is before you. We are pleased in the Democratic Party that the Democratic Party has been recognised as a party that has been in favour of economic reform for ten years and has focused the issue as the main one. If the Socialist Party of Serbia had focused on the issue, we would not have gone through all this that we've been through today. This concept and this bill is good because, firstly, it has gathered all the good experiences of transition countries and it is in a fine and elegant way put into this law. The other good side of this law is that it is not favored by the one who gives the most money to buy businesses. So, a future investor is asked to pay for what he gets, to create new jobs, to hire workers who are currently employed in these companies, and I think that this is a very important moment in a social programme. We've heard a lot about the social uncertainty of workers, about how this law on privatisation will drive many people out into the street. I think this privatisation law is just gonna call things a real name. The workers who sit at home and receive some compensation are not workers. Their real name is social cases and they get social benefits. If we succeed through investment, through the opening of production, through investment in new products, if we succeed from investors to get new jobs, I think we'll make the biggest contribution to the social programme. It is also very important that this law implies and transparency of privatisation, so that what happened earlier will no longer be possible when it is not known that the factory in Pancheva, and I come from Pančev, so Pančeva Azotara won't be allowed to build a new carbamid plant past the decision of the authorities in the municipality, past the decision of the Assembly of the Municipality, and with the signing of the then Minister of Construction of Mr Banet Ivković and under the agreement Mira Markovic with the Chinese on obtaining a certain loan. In addition to these economic moments and the protection of the environment is also included in the criteria for obtaining benefits, for including in privatisation, which we in Pančev are eager to expect, because we are very aware that these companies that are now working, primarily chemical factories, Azotar, Petrochemy and Refinery, cannot solve their problems with their own forces, and they are related to the protection of the environment. You know for a fact that the land is poisoned, that the problem of air cleanness is also large, and these companies cannot provide themselves with air-cleaning filters. The application of this privatisation law will also bring about a whole new relationship, new relations between businesses and the state and new relations between workers and employers. We will no longer have State intervention in certain businesses and rescue businesses, we will no longer have political factories and we will no longer have political directors who, by political criteria, will place people inside companies to make political power as strong as possible. On the other hand, we will have entrepreneurs who will aim at profit and who, of course, will be addressed in that direction. So, good workers will be put in place, those who work well with private entrepreneurs and have never had a problem with employment. Good workers have always had jobs, and that's also the point of privatisation. So, to conclude, perhaps in the opinion of the opposition MPs, this law is the worst law in the world, you might think to fix it, but I think the application of this law will deny you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10179	The word has been made by the MP Milutin Svevinović, and the next one is the National MP Radoslav Veseinovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10180	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Chosen Ones, Mr. Minister, as a member of the Finance Committee, I'd like to say a few sentences about this law. One of the most important features of the privatisation law is the sale of capital, not free share of shares. Free division of actions for workers is a vision of seemingly just privatisation. Why would workers become owners of companies that only make losses? Each of the potential owners expects to invest in a factory to restructure the factory. Unfortunately, in our Serbia, there are no such workers who could invest in the economy, because none of their houses can bring savings, as the previous regime has sucked everything out and drained all the straws. Those who have shaken out straws cannot be strategic partners this time, since their interest is not to restructure businesses but to legalise stolen and kidnapped money. The second feature of the law is that the new concept of privatisation is not forgotten employees in state services, peasants, unemployed, etc. Contrary to the privatisations so far, the new concept of privatisation is more socially acceptable, as it promotes a fairer balance of the interests of the employees and the unemployed. In fact, 15% of the sale of capital will be allocated to the privatisation register, and shares of the privatisation register will be distributed free of charge to citizens after the full privatisation has been completed. For the past 12 years, the previous regime has conducted uncontrollable privatisation through commercial flows. Uncontrollable privatisation or better said robbery took place through harmful contracts, suspicious business arrangements and always one-way, from social enterprises to private businesses. This resulted in large private empires of people close to the regime overnight. The emergence of private property at the end of the 1980s and the existence of social and private property created conditions for the transfer of capital of social enterprises to private enterprises, and thus the extension of double parallel ownership was also an extension of the robbery of social enterprises. It is a very important feature of this law and the way the return of property to former owners, which was kidnapped in the middle of this century by communists, will be done. Restitution will be applied to land, apartments, houses, bars, businesses and the like. The restitution will correct the great injustice committed by former owners, and Serbia finally needs one such law, in which there is no place for robbery and no place for corruption, because mechanisms that prevent this robbery and corruption are within the law. All those who criticise this law don't want anything to change, they want to keep their positions acquired. Unlike the previous regime, which did not want to implement privatisation, today's government seriously intends to implement it and has given it four years. Carefully selected strategic partners will be obliged to invest in businesses, solve social problems, and guarantee business continuity and they will take care of environmental protection. In addition to all this I said, the DSS has submitted amendments to this law, which are generally accepted, and the most important thing is that amendment that prevents newly-roasted rich people, who were close to the previous regime and big money from creating, that simply those who wanted to legalise and launder their money through this privatisation process, it predicts that everyone who participates in privatisation, must prove that they have paid a one-time tax on extra income and extra property. I hope you will support this amendment. Privatisation is a process that encourages positive selection of personnel and only the best and most capable will be at the price, thus correcting the 55-year negative selection. The DSS will vote for this law in principle, and I hope you will support it, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10181	Thank you, this discussion is over in the sixth minute and the previous in the seventh minute, which means you don't have to speak at all costs for 10 minutes. The word has a folk MP, Radoslav Veselinović, and the next is the pronoun Miodrag Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10182	Dear Presidency, honourable ministers, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, today I am speaking here as president of the Chamber of Commerce of Serbia and a member of the Committee on Industry as well as a private member who deals with 30 years of private business in the economy. First of all, I want to tell you that, in addition to the political changes that took place on October 5th, this country needs radical economic reforms. Economic reforms that have corrected many things can be said to break up with the communist system, a system that has lasted 50 years and destroyed the Serbian economy. It began to destroy the moment when the most capable, the smartest and most popular people of the Serbian economy were killed in 1945, and expelled by the year 60 outside their families and all those people who were at that moment had to leave this country. Economic reforms in this country will not be easy, they will be painful, but they have to come because unfortunately we have to protect ourselves, gangrene has caught and in any case, surgery is necessary. We just make these economic reforms less painful because they are less painful today than in two years, but they are much more painful than they could have been 10 years ago when this privatisation was to be carried out. Anyway, we stop politics being over the economy. We stop that politicians are setting up company directors and often setting up incompetent company directors because this is not happening in the privatisation and legal economy in the world. They're looking for each other and they're setting up capable people. You know what the criteria were for such things. What is the position of social enterprises? Social enterprises lost their personnel, no market, no initiative, and all that was good, everything that was smart from these companies in the most part came out of these companies, opened their private companies or left this country. In the state we're in, social enterprises have no perspective. The only way is to make privatisation, and it's quick privatisation, because that's the only thing that can make it better. You have in the previous period, there was total imbalance between the private and social sectors, there were enterprises that did not pay contributions, taxes, electricity, gas and other companies that had to pay for it. It doesn't exist anywhere in the world. It'll all change by privatizing. We now, at this moment, during the process of last privatisation, have got companies that have stock management, which have run out of markets, no capital, no ideas and don't know how to go on. Serbia's Chamber of Commerce and regional chambers of commerce on these laws led a broad debate, a discussion that lasted up to two months, over 5,000 company directors, both social and private, led to a debate on this law and I must tell you that throughout the territory of the Republic of Serbia and in all regional chambers, this law has been positively supported everywhere. No one said, there was nowhere to be fenced by the privatisation law. The state has an interest in working effectively, and the state is no matter who owns the company, it is important that the company works, that it has a good standard of workers, that it pays its taxes and contributions. What do the businessmen want from the government? The businessmen are looking for the same conditions of commitment. They can only be sought at that moment if the government is not interested or if it does not have its own businesses, which is only if this privatisation law is implemented. The private economy is much more efficient and we know very well how it works and thanks to the private economy throughout the sanctions, the country survived thanks to private economy. We expect an inflow of foreign capital, and it can only come if the conditions of commitment are stable. In any case, after the adoption of this law, I'm sure the state of workers will be better and the businessmen will see the opportunity to privatise in private, seeing the chance to get involved in the privatisation process. In the previous period, we had too much protection for creditors, not debtors, people were afraid of bankruptcy. The bankruptcy of gentlemen is not the destruction of one company, but rather the change of owners in all economies in the world. We have to deal with a lot of things that have happened and are happening at this point, which is that we don't have a paid leave worker, but there's a surplus labour force. We need to call some things a real name, we have cases that the employee who is on paid leave, goes and now works in the private sector there receives one extra salary, and here is the status to receive social, pension, as well as other contributions where his company has this obligation. I think that worker, when he's declared an overwork force, he'll be aware that he needs to get along and get a job, and we'll come up with the fact that people in the economy will be able to go from one company to another in a transparent way, where it's better. The economy can't recover overnight. It's clear to all of us. The economy has been destroyed for 50 years, and the last 10 years have been destroyed and cannot be completed overnight now in three or six months to recover. It takes us tens of years to recover, but it is certain that in a year or three years, we will not recognise the economy in Serbia. All Serbian citizens must be aware that everyone must do everything and try to make their own work to get to a better life and a better standard of workers. I think we at DOS took that responsibility to make it happen or we'll do anything. We may be making some mistakes, but believe me, those mistakes are not because we want to make mistakes or because of some interest. Those mistakes are when someone's working, they can be wrong. We are still going through the political changes that have happened, into a world of success, and with this law we solve a lot of things. The money we get from sales under this law is partly going to pay off former owners, to settle the injustice that was done 50 years ago and over, then to pay off foreign exchange savings, the order of people who have been saving and working abroad have invested here money. I think it's been eaten by this economy and she has a commitment and we all have an obligation to get that money back. What some MPs here have said about this law. Many have pointed out their concern for the fate of the workers. I think the fate of the workers is in our hands, in the hands of the DOS. I have to tell you for sure that there will be difficulties, but we'll do everything we can to ensure a better standard of workers and employment. We must also say what is in other countries. We see very well what is in Hungary, very well what is in Bulgaria. If some have the opportunity to visit these countries, they can make a very big difference in the standard of living of these citizens five years ago and today. It's a huge difference in the quality of life. What is unclear about this law? This law makes everything very clear. No one's property disappears, because the social property was nobody's, and that property was all deafened and no one cared about it. It's been a historical injustice since 1945. Is this law transparent? It is transparent and everyone has and will have the insight to see how and what the privatisation process is, and in any case companies and managers have the opportunity to find their partner. He says this law is by the dictatorship of the West. I don't think a huge number of these MPs have had a chance to see how companies work in the West. If they had had the opportunity to see the companies in the West work, they'd say, well, give us something from them to learn. They say the story of investment is for small children. I wasn't in Segedin. I think we had a lot of stories like that in the past, which were basically stories for little kids. What about oil, our Kuwaiti in Vojvodina, what about the loan for Serbia's rebirth, what about foreign exchange savings, what about Dafin and Jazda, what about inflation from 1993, what about exchange rates that were between 6 and 30 dinars, what about the Serbian economy that was waiting for workers, that workers had salaries before 5 October 80 marks, and they still have a lot more. Innopartners expect stable conditions of rejuvenation. Why private property, clear and unchanged laws... (President: Time, Mr. Veselinovic. You said there were those in our ranks who were in SPS and JUL. Probably they're trying to move in with us now. We all at DOS have an obligation to eliminate them. As president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce and as a member of DOS and DHSS, I suggest you vote for this law, which I will vote for. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10183	Thank you. The People's MP Miodrag Stamenkovic has the word, and the next is the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10184	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, this law on privatisation is the crown law of the reform package of the law and it is historic, as soon as the previous system pulls root, removing one anti-natural property, which was the basis of their holding power on the ground, not only in the economy, but in all spheres of life. One of my predecessors mentioned that this law by nature of content should be one of the last in the reform package of laws. However, we New Serbia MPs disagree. We believe that when we are late, we regret that it was not at the very beginning, it can be towards the back specialis because this law is the only instrument by which we can launch industry, increase production, increase the efficiency of industrial enterprises and raise the standard of employees. Analyzing the predecessor's speeches, first of all from that critical part, I pulled out a few premises, as they construct their attacks. Well, according to the points, the orderly look like this: the decline in production in the last few months is the only result of the inability of the new government, so they say: the previous government has left a huge social property, where happiness lies; the sale of capital that employees have created by seizing part of a very modest income, investing them in buildings and machines; leaving the course of the social - legal model of privatisation; the right-wing concept of the laws against workers is only for the government and capital; and finally, the previous government has preserved businesses in the most difficult times. As she saved companies in the hardest of times, I want to illustrate to you the language of numbers, because otherwise, as a technical face, I can't speak. I have here a report from the Chamber of Commerce for the Jablan region, which clearly states that since 1,193 business entities, and 29.586 employees, 46% of workers are at a loss. But, gentlemen, out of those 1.143, 146 are social enterprises. They're 100% working with a loss. In doing so, the Chamber of Commerce in its report only provides information on short-term claims and debts, not due diligence. These dubiosiss are more than the value of the company in most companies. What about the other component, which is the social component, again one report, made by the So Leskovac Survey Board. He visited companies in the municipality of Leskovac and pulled out the following data, out of 109 social enterprises with 16.144 workers, 31 companies with 9,238 workers were processed; debts to the PIO Fund are 212 million and so on, and 9,238 employees have literally stopped their employment from 3.34, and in some enterprises up to 6.5 years. They're not employees. It represents 60% of the employees of the woodworking industry. But for the other 40%, it doesn't mean they're not in the same position, we just don't have data on it. It is precisely because of this data that toxic demagogy acts as a statement from one MP who says you have reduced production you have increased taxes and you are doing everything to reduce the value of the company. That's how it is in these companies that I was just talking about, because I'm talking about that county, because I know the most about you. I don't think it's any different in other districts. The decline in gentlemen's production is not the product of a new government. This is due to huge debts that exceed the value of the company. Then the loss of market due to outdated technology and the inability to achieve any quality or deadlines, the lack of any craftsmanship. This is why privatisation, along with the inflow of investment funds, is the only way to start production, increase business efficiency and raise labour standards. Most of the 7,000 social enterprises, which handles this privatisation law, due to over-indebtedness, negative performances and permanent inability to pay their commitments, are the regenerators of the dubiosis and are responsible for a large part of the 835 billion dinars of internal debt and would have to move among the first to the process of restructuring and privatisation, even by coercion. It's a very ugly word and contrary to everything we're trying to do. But I have to explain why I'm talking like this. On the scene, first and foremost, many of the mechanics who in the previous period, in the conditions of the parallel existence of social and private property, have poured the capital of social enterprises into their pockets and now, in all ways, obstruct the negotiations with the right partners and the start of privatisation, expecting to buy them themselves, after a certain time, for a dinar or a dollar, and the obligation to launch capacities and investments, use alienated capital from these companies, normally, washed over foreign companies. Therefore, although decentralisation of government and decision-making is one of the party's basic principles for political change - New Serbia to which I belong, I advocate the addition of Article 16(5). A proposal for a privatisation law, which reads: "The privatisation process can also be initiated by the ministry's initiative in the privatisation business and by interested capital buyers. ". There are few times, and many examples based on which I could confirm this opinion. Gentlemen and ladies, there's only one case from our Leskovac to mention-- a company where workers are not workers for 6.5 years, because they were not paid anything into funds, which is a large company with 1,200 workers. We brought in three Australian companies that wanted to invest and start production. The obstruction came to an extent that after two months of negotiations, among other things, one meeting was at the Ministry of Privatisation, that a letter came from a partner in which they said - gentlemen, we don't have time, we don't have a competent negotiator, we interrupt negotiations so as not to lose people and capital. We turned them a little further south and went to the company, which, however, was privatized under the old law, but new young people work there, and in two days a $10m deal was concluded, with 8.5m euros of credit to start production. That capital has been missed by woodworking companies in all the textiles that stand. This company, which refused to cooperate with its partners, asks the bank 30,000 dinars to buy a dozen lagers and make a single machine possible, and there is no gram of raw materials. This is why the launch initiative must not only start from business, but also support the ministry if there are serious strategic partners. In order to speed up preparation and implement the privatisation process, it is necessary to immediately bring in the announced regulations which specify the process of restructuring the privatisation entities listed in Article 20 of this Act, because most of our businesses will have to go into restructuring, precisely because they are doing negatively, are not able to service their debts, have no opportunity to start production. (President: Time. ) We will support Mr. Minister's recommendation to establish parliamentary control over the entire privatisation process. However, we, New Serbia MPs, will also support an amendment proposing the decentralisation of privatisation funds. It cannot fail to participate in their distribution of local self-government from whose areas are privatised companies, as it avoids the threat of Serbia's Belgradeisation and lagging behind in the development of other regions. I just wanted to point out that this program that we DOS ambassadors promoted in our campaign, we carry with us all the time, because it's not just a list of good wishes, it's a list of our obligations. There are two of us who need to be particularly potent. I'd like you to listen to me for one more minute. (Chairman: Please, it's the 12th minute.) We've got 15 more reported. I will be angry with you, Madam Vice President, all those who write to us that we must introduce a law on denationalisation, so as not to legalise the robbery of citizenship by the communist regime, etc. We've even proposed their amendments. I apologize to them for not being able to bring it up. I also have laws that are still in force, and they directly threaten those people I wanted to tell you about. Finally, the third group of our tasks is a programme to combat poverty. In part, I disagree with Mr. Minister, who yesterday said it was difficult and impossible to quantify social programmes before the privatisation process began. We promised to make social records. (President: Sir, 13th minute.) ). I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10185	The word is made by the MP Vladimir Dobrosavljevic. Next reported is MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10186	Madam Chairman, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of the People, Mr Minister, in the political history of one nation and one state, there are few fateful moments. Rarely one generation has the opportunity to pass such essential and important laws. The law represents a kind of civilization act that Serbia today is doing, Serbia's political elite. It represents a kind of return, or civilization continuity after 60 years of the authoritarian regime in which we lived and a kind of civilizational discontinuity in which we lived. That discontinuity was also economic. Let me remind you, Serbia is the only country in the world where the capital holder was something called society, which was in fact just an excuse, just a substitute for the political nomenclature managing also the economy. That's why we were the only country, even in the moments of the establishment of a pseudo-party system, in which it could happen that ministers were at the same time the directors of leading social firms in this country. With this act, Serbia is returning to the order of civilized European peoples. It is our obligation, our obligation as a member of European civilization. On the other hand, we should be very clear and precise. Privatisation is not a simple process at all. In many cases, he is even very painful. But I repeat one more thing that's been pointed out here several times. There are two main problems that have been discussed. One question is the social dimension of the privatisation law, and another dimension is what some MPs also talked about - denationalisation. In order to be absolutely clear - social dimensions of social policy are not available in a country where there is no strong economy. Please, give me just one country in the world that leads a successful social policy without the economy being strong. Such a country does not exist. This is neither Cuba nor North Korea nor Vietnam. Only industrially highly developed countries, such as Sweden, all Western European countries, such as the United States, Australia, lead a strong and good social policy. In order for us to be able to take care of it, we need to run a cycle of production. Only then can we talk about filling the budget, filling the funds, which will implement certain social programmes. Without it, it's quite clear there's nothing. There's been a lot of mention here and one more thing. There was a mention of capital and the need for domestic capital to take part in the privatisation process above all. People, citizens of this country, so the instructions, with much more patriotism, refer to the country, which is not true. There's no such thing as capital territory. There's no such thing as patriotic capital anywhere. Capital, like it or not, has no country. The supreme, patriotic interest of our country and our people at the moment is to come strategic investors to this country, to invest in our factories, to employ our workers, to pay our taxes here and to pay our workers. It's the greatest patriotic duty there is right now. The other thing we're talking about is denationalization. No matter how unfair, no matter how unfair it may seem at certain times, it's something that has to be done. Of course, denationalization is something that can't be forgotten in any way. But I'm asking one other question -- whether a country, such as Serbia, can now, with such resources, bear denationalisation. Unfortunately, I don't think so. I believe that the law offers appropriate solutions that former owners of certain business entities can compensate for, but I also think that this economy and this society currently do not have the power to complete this process of denationalisation on their own. I'll remind you of another thing. There is no country in transition, a country in Eastern Europe, which has succeeded in denationalising to the end. Both Slovakia and Estonia and East Germany tried. They didn't finish it. Therefore, as in the story of social programmes, it is important for this country to start up production, start foreign investments, train and strengthen the Serbian economy, strengthen budgets and funds and then then move on to this second one, so to speak, the kind of human, principled process of correcting old mistakes towards all those who have been damaged since 1945. That is why I am telling you that I also think in front of the party I belong to, which is the Democratic Party of Serbia, that we must support these laws, especially this one, because it represents the return of Serbia, the Serbian economy, to the entire Serbian society in order of civilized European peoples. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10187	Thank you, Mr. Dobrosavlevich. The word is Mr. Zarko Obradovic, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10188	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, since the set of laws discussed today by the Assembly, I will say more about the proposal for a law on privatisation. Namely, the proposed law on privatisation, given its content, the issues it treats, but also the other one that does not mention, which will undoubtedly have consequences for the social system and the lives of Serbian citizens, which will arise as a result of the adoption and application of the law, i.e. for all these reasons, I think the bill should be withdrawn from the procedure, i.e. That he shouldn't be adopted. The law should be withdrawn for several reasons. First, because it is not in line with the Constitution of the SRJ and the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the federal laws on enterprises and the fundamentals of the change of ownership of social capital. And this law, as well as many others who have been under consideration and adoption in the National Assembly, shows in fact the real face of the ruling regime in Serbia, the attitude towards the federal state, respect for the country's largest legal act. While publicly favouring strengthening the federal state, respect for the rights, the Constitution and the law, at the same time, for the sake of its political interests and pre-election promises, the DOS adopts laws that are at the heart of the federal state. It seems very justified that the DOS in this way is silently doing what the public cannot or does not want to say, and that is to be denied by the federal state. The adoption and application of laws, such as the one discussed today by the Assembly, with provisions contrary to the Constitution of the SRJ and federal laws, is nothing more than denying the legality of the federal state and an argument more to all those opponents of the existence and development of the common state. The bill is directly contrary to Article 74. The Constitution of the SRJ and Articles 55, 57 and 64. Serbia's constitution, which guarantees business independence, their equality on the market, and to economic policy measures prohibit discrimination between certain types of enterprises. Article 14 of this bill, which we are discussing, determines the obligation of privatisation proceedings no later than four years after the entry into force of this law, while Article 16 allows the privatisation agency and the competent ministry to launch the privatisation initiative. The above provisions are contrary to the federal laws which leave the company authorities to decide whether or not the status changes will be made. The federal laws prescribe a way to determine and demonstrate the value of social capital, leave freedom for businesses to choose a model of transformation, sell actions under privileged conditions and allow recapitalisation, so many things that the Republic law does not respect. Another reason why the proposed law should not be passed is that the law is unclear in many provisions, does not give answers to the questions asked, especially when it comes to the powers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia to adopt sublegal acts, which in fact paves the way for the unlimited will of the government. Many of the provisions of this law, which confirm this, which leave the Government with the possibility that later, through special acts, he will be the main factor of privatisation, which judges and judges, will trigger and complete certain actions in the privatisation process or decide on the level of the purpose of the privatisation funds. Thus, in the numerous provisions of this law, I quote, the government makes the procedure and way of restructuring of privatisation entities closer to the regulation of the assessment of the value of capital, of assets, of the procedure and of the way in which the sale of capital and of property is made, of the method of obtaining, of distribution and of other issues, or of establishing the amount of funding for the purposes of Article 60. The law. So all these examples show great government powers. The law shows, and also confirmed by the Prime Minister and the resolution minister in their exhibitions, that the government is only interested in capital, the money that should be obtained in the privatisation process in Serbia and of course - how to spend it. The government doesn't say anything about producing, creating new jobs, hiring new workers. The government doesn't say anything about the social component of the law. That is, in fact, the third reason why the privatisation law should not be adopted. The government expects a change in the ownership structure of privatisation entities to automatically lead to an improvement in production, to greater employment, to economic development. At this point, without any dose of criticism, the private property, as the best, most efficient form of property, is Glorified as a solution to all our economic and perhaps social problems. This, in turn, raises the question of how to manage property, which is actually a necessary condition of efficiency and prosperity. Only good management, the management team, who cares about property, no matter what shape it was, and creates income, is a condition of progress, not private property in itself. This is very clearly confirmed by a number of examples, especially in countries where private property is dominant, and they are convulsing in poverty and poverty, as is true in several Central and South America countries. It is interesting that the government, in the image of the Prime Minister and the Prime Minister, did not say a word, even if not directly, about the consequences of privatisation. Both the Prime Minister and the minister spoke of calling the good sides of privatisation. It is logical from their point of view, but for the sake of honesty, they should have said something at least about the bad side of privatisation, which they will undoubtedly be. However, the Prime Minister confirmed this indirectly. He said we should follow the privatisation process, whether we are hit or not, satisfied or not, to act in accordance with the current standards in the world. If employees are not satisfied with the privatisation of companies in which they work and decide not to do so, they will do so on their behalf by the Government, or if, in new conditions, with the new owner, they represent surplus labour, i.e. they get fired, they, according to the Prime Minister, shouldn't cause problems for new owners, in the form of protests, let alone conflicts, because it's not polite and can scare other potential buyers. As with some other issues, the government is only interested in the level of capital that can be acquired and the image gained in public. The unemployed need someone else to take care of, the highest ones themselves. Privatisation will, by the logic of things, increase the number of unemployed persons. The government has not offered an adequate answer for this problem. On the contrary, a month ago, it reduced the scope and content of the rights of unemployed persons, especially those of the elderly in their lifetime and working hours, which will certainly not be sought by the employer on the future labour market. The future of this category of people in this way becomes a question with no response from the government and with possible, extremely negative effects. A man who runs out of work, in the conditions of an enormous increase in the prices of all products and the fall in the purchasing power of the population, practically becomes a man with no future. Claims that part of the funds will be directed to foster development are not more fully argued, neither by the law nor by the motionor himself. Much more attention is given to other issues under this law - paying compensation to persons whose property is nationalised, or the question of repaying debts, whose is an obligation, or guarantee, the Republic of Serbia. That is confirmed by the Prime Minister in his statement, through the view that we, as a member of the UN, must act in accordance with the general rules adopted, i.e. We must fulfill certain obligations, or in translation we must repay our debts. So if we want money from privatisation, from strategic partners from abroad, we need to accept international obligations. The same story could be heard these days on the issue of the extradition of our citizens to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10189	But it has nothing to do with this subject. Please, Mr. Obradich, so far has been a really correct discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10190	Please, just a little attention - so if we want the money, and we will, then we have to comply with the demands so-called. international communities. In both cases, the ruling DOS is no obstacle to the adoption of acts contrary to the Constitution, nor in the case of this shameful co-operation regulation with the UN tribunal, nor in the event of the adoption of this law. And let me, I would like now, on behalf of the parliamentary group, just two sentences to say, given that yesterday I was not in the assembly, and neither was the president of the parliamentary group, for the presentation of one MP here in the Assembly yesterday, and the information that could be heard by the minister of justice, that, call one or more MPs, or members of the SPS leadership, support the extradition of their president and other Yugoslav citizens to The Hague tribunal. First of all, it's a notorious lie. If anyone has a guilty conscience, he'll have to fight it himself. And what the Socialists think about that question, or other citizens, everyone in this room, who wants to, can see it tonight, afternoon in the Republic Square, at 6:00, at a rally that organizes the SPS. Come and see. It's a stone around your neck, which you will carry for generations. I don't know if you're aware of that, but you will be.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10191	Thanks for the call. Mr. Obradich, are you finished?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10192	The fourth reason, and I end up here, why the law should not be passed is because it offers solutions that are significantly more harmful and unfavourable to employees and citizens than all those contained in the old law. Our colleagues mentioned it, and I don't want to say it over time, but there are a number of solutions that are unfavourable to citizens and employees. For all the reasons I mentioned, and those mentioned by my fellow MPs, I think that all of this best says that the law is bad, that it should not be adopted, because Serbia, and most of its citizens, will not benefit from this law, nor will it bring Serbia any better. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10193	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10194	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, from previous discussions, it is quite clear that in the debate on the adoption of this legislative project, two concepts are conflicting -- one concept of clean, armed, mandatory privatisation, sales, with the planning of the protection social policy, represented by the SRS, and the other, along with those cute signs of the alleged "jindzic-Cardeljevski" concept of free division of action, is in the system of converting one imaginary category of social property into private, represented by some parliamentary groups. Between these two concepts, this government swims. Partly aware of the unsustainableness of its idea concept, but nevertheless, by sticking even to the legal text of social property, as something that really has a foothold anywhere in the world, or as a constitutional, or as an economic category. In Western democracy, there is a concept of social property, only there is known as the titler of that property. It's more expensive there, and you here have a chance to write, simply, that social property is a form of state property, and to solve all the dilemmas, by amending the Government during the debate on this legal project. Otherwise, you're in a position to privatize something that doesn't have a titlemaker. What's social property? Something that doesn't exist or something that owns all of us. If it's the property of all of us, then it's already private property, then it can't be privatized anymore. This should be written, that the constitutionality of the law, at least in that part that speaks of the equality of all forms of property, would not be questioned. You had, ladies and gentlemen, a law on privatisation that you could have passed the moment you abolished in this House the Law on your own transformation. It was a privatisation law submitted to the Serbian Parliament for the adoption of the SRS. For ideological, political or other reasons, you didn't do it. You're late, although the law differs from this law at a maximum of 10 to 15%. The vanity eats millions, my dear ladies and gentlemen. We see that you have not applied anything here, or almost nothing, from Romanian, from Bulgarian, from the Czech concept. You've applied some of the radical concept here, but say it, it doesn't hurt. There's not much to argue about in this law. However, what has been done to pass this law can lead to inconceivable consequences in its application. There are legal projects in this assembly that are economic and legal projects that are political. The SRS has never been against economic laws, but against political ones it is, and a being. The whole set of tax laws, which preceded this law, is once again "outstanding." The tax rate of 20% is anything but stimulating for any strategic partners. The law on one-time taxation of extra profits is everything but something that gives confidence to foreign investors. On the contrary, it causes uncertainty, especially as they surely heard of the promise, that in the event of a change of government, it would also apply to the pets of the regime here. The corporate tax law, which does not exempt investment from taxes as well as legislation, such as Cyprus or some Arab countries or even developed European countries, cannot be attractive to foreign investors. The government’s nebulous and thoughtless regulations certainly do not contribute to the security of strategic partners. The tax settlements of France, which do not need foreign investment, cannot be applied in Serbia and expect partners to flock under unfavourable tax conditions, I guess, out of some excessive love for us. In addition, in the pre-war era, based on the opinion of recognised and well-known economic experts, Yugoslavia was not a secure partner for foreign investment. Now, with such strategic accompanying solutions, it's even less. The partners for the facilities, so-called. The dirty economy, the dirty technology, and God forbid he picks up some more and nothing else. Anthony Rourke, you know who he is, says they're in the same zone of security in Yugoslavia, Iraq and North Korea. Imagine, now that you've come to power, you should also think about selling to domestic strategic partners, of course those who have come to the funds with normal business, but you strategic partners, domestic strategic partners, which are good small and medium-sized enterprises, you're destroying. You destroy them with legal solutions, you destroy them with regulations, and there will be no more such partners in this country. Minister Djelic said it is an honor to pay taxes to his country. I agree it's an honor and can you imagine I was an incredibly honorable man last year. My honor could last year be measured by tens of millions of marks. Since you started making regulations, my honor has been reduced to zero. Zero dinars of sales taxes, and 70% less other taxes and contributions due to layoffs of workers, etc. You think foreign strategic partners don't know about your genius solutions. 20% of taxes at a time when Cyprus is 7%, by not releasing tax investments at the time of 10 years in Cyprus, and you think that such accompanying legal solutions will attract foreign partners here? Of course you won't. That's why I'm afraid a pretty good law will have no one to apply to, so we'll go back to that Djindjic law free of charge. One more thing that's wrong. It's no good from this pay phone, no matter what you Tits are from before the eighth session, calling on Tito's words that you shouldn't stick to the law and the Constitution as a drunk float. We came here to protect the law and the constitution primarily. We can't say this isn't exactly constitutional, but we don't have time to wait, and this isn't exactly legal, and we still don't have time to wait. We have to wait as long as it takes to change the laws or change the Constitution. It is not true that there will be no political factories and political directors, because there are now. There are also political coffee cooks. There's no place in this country that anyone who's not a DOS can get right now. We can choose two from our strategic partners right now. One is the Lafarz, who has the money and the other is the Hague tribunal, which has the money, and we have the goods for both the Lafarz and the Hague tribunal, but I would still be Lafarg, even though it is not particularly good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10195	The People's MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić has the word, and after that, the MP Momir Radojićic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10196	Madam President, Mr. Government, dear fellow Members and fellow Members of the People, these few days we are discussing a set of privatisation laws that essentially differs from previous solutions by being more regorous for businesses, and more unfavourable for workers and citizens. In it, compared to before, there is no capitalization. By listening to the opening statement of Mr. Minister and Mr. Prime Minister, those who followed it could remain enticed because the minister said it was the best law, and Mr. Djindjic said much can be fixed in the law. The best law cannot be called one where much can be fixed, so the minister first had to convince the prime minister that it was the best law, and then convince us. We also had two re-exposures in the opening statement that, according to the minister, there are 27% of the unemployed, and that, according to the prime minister, there are 40% of the unemployed and then some other observations these days, so it goes up to 50%, etc. At least when with some of these facts you have to take one piece of information and stick to it, as the people say, like a drunk float, because when you talk this colourfully, it's hard for someone to believe what's really true about it. The extraprofit law and some of the other laws that we passed before this created only the preconditions, especially that extraprofit law, created the preconditions that the government, I will not say to the state, that the government of the state, nationalizes a fair set of companies and that this concept of privatisation can be implemented. We have to say in Article 16 that the privatisation process is initiated by a privatisation or a company entity, and then there says that it can be different, to be initiated by the agency. Then we have in Article 19, which speaks of restructuring if the agency assesses. So, if you're not good, the agency then assess that you need to be restructured, so you won't get your 15%, which is possible to wait for maybe the Beocian cement factory, since it wasn't good and obedient in this period and opposed the hiducia he wanted to conduct by the prime minister and some of the government. I say hiduchi because I'm going to read you a piece of paper, I won't keep it in my purse as a minister, and it's addressed to Mr. Philip Rollier. It's probably some family from Lafarja. Instead of a contract that was to be signed on 19 February 1999, in line with your authorised negotiators, insist on the new documents that were delivered to us on 10 March 1999, counting on the threat of being bombed and having to be accepted at least. The new strategic partnership agreement and the accompanying documentation depart not only from the agreements reached, but from your offer delivered in December 1998 on the basis of which you were chosen as a strategic partner. The value of the transactions mentioned in the contract from 10.03.1999 is lower by 220 million marks. So, among other things, these stories that were both prime ministers and some ministers, they just don't stand. It's not about the price, and it's not about the contract, because no contract has ever been reached between the Beician cement factory and Lafarza. Negotiations don't make a commitment. They're bound by contracts, and let's not throw some other stuff off this pay phone here because little kids know that's not the case. There is, after all, and the principle of a good host where it has always been said that a good host will never sell the best cow or any other beast from his flock, because when he starts doing it, then he won't be a good host anymore, then he'll go to the beggar stick. When the government sells out and sells out the best, then we'll probably stop hosting our own house. When there's talk of practically everything being sold out and that those who are employed in companies, practically, have no rights whatsoever, the law says, one aspect of nobody here has mentioned, and there's been a lot of talk. In the late '60s and early '70s, it was a politely expanded concept of GG to the company, and it celebrates 25 to 30 years of successful work, and then it became a social enterprise. Someone takes an ace, some shovel, some mixer, and builds a construction company. I know a lot of examples from my community. Now that doesn't mean it's theirs and it's going to sell the government the same way. I know that Beojinska cement factory in the '60s made one rotational furnace from its workers' coat of arms, 67, second oven, 73, third oven, and in 1974, it raised 220 million dollars of credit to expand its factory and again from the same working backs, not from the back of the government and no one else. So it should be someone's thing if it's a rule. Just to find out the difference between the shares of those who have privatised under the old law and the new one, and if at some point some companies that are privatized, if they decide to sell to a strategic partner their actions, they'll put money in their own pocket, and in this case, the government will put it in the budget, and I don't know where they're going to spend it. So one of his colleagues read Dushan's code the other day, and then this was supposed to apply to Dushan's code, and if it's someone else's that the government doesn't take it as its own. It's always called stealing, thieving, and whatever you want me to say. There's always a thesis here, that everything's ruined, that there's nothing, there's nothing, there's no one, and then what's going to be privatized when nothing's gone, then nothing can be privatized. Nothing is nothing, so they taught us when we were little that nothing is nothing, that zero is equal to zero. It won't be like that. It won't be because you expect decent money from that privatisation, so the ministers and the prime minister spoke earlier on about this law and when they passed it. There was also always talk about decentralisation, and now money, specifically for the Beocian cement factory, will be put into the budget by the government, and Beocin will not benefit from it. In decentralisation, some of these couples had to be purposely directed towards Beocino, or some other environments where these companies would be privatized. I'm not going to bid on the percentage, but it's certainly that the principle of decentralisation would drink water, and it should also be covered by the draft of this law to know that a certain percentage of all that should be focused on those environments, because it's also going to be that those environments are something that these companies are good at, so someone wants to buy them. Those who aren't worth it won't even buy them. In a particular case, what I'm saying about Beocin, it wasn't the state's debts, and the state alone in the Beocinska factory was pulling her hand in the right direction and not to say in an ugly way, she never touched her in any way. It's also going through all of this and let's talk about denationalization. Denationalisation is not a political pamphlet, because here a colleague said about what can be restored to denationalisation, houses, apartments, countries and so on. My dear colleague, when you return the land and the houses to Banat, the Hans will live there, and the Hans will not join the DSS, but someone else. Therefore, denationalisation is a much more serious issue than a political pammelette that will wave around here. And in the end, someone is here at the beginning, and Chad, Mr. Chief of Parliament Group DOS, and some others have said something like this, and if you don't believe read the stenogram, even if it doesn't matter if the law is right by the Constitution, you should count on the Constitution to be important. We have seen from the example that there is a Mitalj Jumbus from some group of G-17, flagrantly broke the Constitution of Yugoslavia and that it is not particularly eaten around it, and why should we then eat for the fact that the glow of the law in this assembly brings the opposite to the Constitution, so since Mitalj Jumbus can make such things, then I can invite you, seeing that some are very ready, let's say, when Mr Jovanovic entered the Assembly today, I see that he dressed very nicely, probably because he came to our rally tonight. I invite both you and those who listen to me come, they'll hear something smart, smarter than we hear here that the law is the best and yes, for Mr. Seselj tonight at 6:00 in the Republic Square.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10197	Ten minutes and 20 seconds. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10198	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm advertising a violation of article 93. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It's obvious that the Collegiate behaviour of DOS MPs, they're back in shopping, they're not here, please establish the quorum, so that, in accordance with the rules of procedure, we can work normally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10199	I ask the Members of Parliament to, as proposed by Parliamentarian Dragoljub Stamenkovic, whom I hope has been identified as present at the meeting of the National Assembly, determine the quorum. I find the National Assembly has no quorum to work at 12 o'clock. I set a 15-minute break, and after a break, the first registered MP is Momir Radoicicic. At 1215 hours, we continue our work. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, please insert your identification cards to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum, so we can keep working. National MP Dejan Mihajlov, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10201	Since MP Guduric, who I don't see in the hall now, is likely to have left to avoid quorum, the DSS mentioned, I am pleased to conclude that only the DSS in parliament has mentioned the great historical injustice that has been done to the citizens of this country, by taking away their nationalised property. The only one in this House who has always been in this Parliament, and until now has always advocated that this property, that these citizens of this country, whose property has been taken, are being satisfactory and compensated, that the property is being compensated in the extent that it is needed and that was taken away. We do not expect those who took away this property or who are the heirs of those who took away the property, and who have come and gone to these places to return the property. I expect that from all those who sit in this hall and who have real intentions and who want to make one state that will be based on private property, which is sacred in all states whose forms we seek, even in our own country. It should also be borne in mind that one wrong should not be corrected by doing other wrongs. It's the only principle that we'll be handling in the course of a severance grant through nationalization. Owners, former owners of these assets must receive satisfaction and must receive a fair fee for the property they have been taken from them. One of these forms is mentioned in this law. After this, the law on denationalisation needs to be passed, physically returned to the property that can physically return and thus damage all citizens who have suffered from the state and the previous regime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10202	According to the Rules of Procedure? Yeah. ) The word has a People's MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10203	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think he's a broken member of 96. Rules of Procedure. The apostle who spoke before me did not understand many of the messengers who spoke before him. A lot of MPs here are talking about injustice. He spoke earlier of Rade Veselinović from DHSS, and the other day Mr. Micovic spoke of it, Mr. Marijan Risticevic and so on. I'm just calling to point out that, I'm not saying it's not true because it's not nice, but it's not true. That's all I had to say. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10204	Before I give my word to the People's MP who's registered for discussion, just one notice. The third session of the Committee on the Protection of the Environment will be held in the break at 14.00 in Hall 73 on the third floor. I give my word to the MP Momir Radoicic, and the next one has been announced by MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10205	The Honorable Presidency, respected ministers, respected fellow MPs, the current moment of our businesses can be characterized by its extremely large identity crisis. It grew out of the indistinguishable economics with a lot of experimentation in its organisation and operation, found itself in the whirlwind of a turbulent world market. Over the past period, the company has been set up between labour management and bureaucratic-political management of the firm and attempts to legally define it, its efforts and its existence. Two basic principles are the organisation of companies. Business efficiency and the humanity of the relationship are not fulfilled. Humanity has been widely declared, and in practice it has increasingly eroded low efficiency, by putting a material base and a drastic decline in living standards. We began to change that trend back in 1991, and with the start of the transition process, where it was the beginning of privatisation. Long-term international isolation and very severe sanctions have hampered the process and put the company in an even more complex situation. The new privatisation law, with the accompanying law on the privatisation agency and the action fund law, which is ahead of us, should solve the problem of social and state property. Without a solution from the owner of the property, there is no progress and results in the economy and society. The extreme effects of this law are difficult to assess. The whole process will take place in a very complex economic and political climate, which cannot be predicted in our terms. The law was made in the case of Hungary's privatisation and it is true that the model of privatisation of Hungary by analysis of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development showed the best results in the transition by all indicators. But that can't be a criterion, because the question is whether it can happen again with us. Each country carries with it completely different circumstances. And that's tradition, culture, etc. Well, surely none of the Eastern European countries have made the perfect transition. The move, however, changed both the economic and political climate to a significant extent. When it comes to our country, I don't think there's gonna be that many strategic partners, because we're the country that last joined the transition. Due to these circumstances, there is certainly no way to expect the spectacular interest of foreign investors, who have often invested their money in some of the Eastern European countries. However, it is our obligation to attract as many foreign investors as possible to invest in our economy and to carry out as much employment as possible. In this proposal, some rights of workers are legal and that, in Article 45, the time period for the free part of the action is limited, with the proposal being to bear in mind that all entities do not create the same and are not in the same circumstances, and they should not be treated the same. Under two, the value of free shares is reduced, as the time limit of transformation is extended, so the worker is punished twice. The first time he worked in a bad entity, and the second time that such an entity cannot find an immediate strategic partner and thus the value of the shares for each time period loses its value. Under three, the right of employees to free shares is completely abolished unless more than 50% of the company's capital is sold. Under four, the right of farmers to the right of the championship, including the right to apply for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises, is lifted. Under five, a discount is lifted for wartime disabled people buying shares. Under six, it is limited to obtaining free shares instead of for a maximum of 40 years, to 35 years of work experience, where many will be denied for five years of free action, which is not negligible. Under seven, the right of citizens outside concrete businesses to apply for free action in each company, which is unrealistic and so on. This part of the remarks was to be taken into account, that another review of the proposed solutions and adapt them to the environment in which this law will be applied. It is normal for foreign investors to be interested in large monopoly systems, such as cementers, food industry, NIS, EPS etc. The sale of these strategic enterprises of our society should be put under the control of the parliamentary commission of the Republic of Parliament. In addition to a number of problems, we must not forget the unsettled political opportunities in our country. How many federal units our country has, because every investor will not invest and buy something that owns and can negotiate with. All that our country has, and these are non-drying sources of raw materials, energy, cheap labour, low asset value and a new market, makes us protect maximum capital and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10206	The People's MP, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and after that, MP Vojislav Jankovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10207	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the President-in-Office, the Honorable Minister Vlahovic, had a lot of discussion about the law on privatisation and what was expected, as the promoter said this was a historic law and was expected to bring prosperity to the country. We Socialists are not against the law, because it is DOS law, but with our proposals and suggestions, as well as amendments, we want this law to be even better and not to be at the expense of our citizens and not to benefit from all of this only individuals. Following the bill's proposal, Minister Vlahovic is under the impression that the privatisation law is excellent and that it should only be adopted in the Assembly and everything will be fine, everything will be resolved. The adoption of the law only opens up problems, and its application in practice will bring to the surface all the shortcomings the law carries with it, which the MPs pointed to. It's not going to be easy, because it's about the property, it's about the money. When it comes to money, I wouldn't recommend anyone swearing to honor for this pay phone. I would like to put the issue of applying this law in practice after one year of this Parliament's agenda, not to be after this beautiful story of the law -- this one is in the works, this factory is sold for small money, this is the link of that functioner, this functioner has the majority of actions in the company, etc. There was a privatisation law that was put out of force because it gives greater rights to businesses, workers, pensioners, farmers and other citizens. Secondly, what customers from abroad won't buy our businesses if the workers have some rights that they had under the law that was put out of force. And this law is prescribed by countries whose property is interested in buying our businesses. In order to make a successful sale of our businesses, a favourable environment is already being created. The various lobbying companies are disabled, disabled, shut down, all in order to get the impression of employees that companies cannot function alone and that they have to sell themselves, because why, as long as they do, it's not free. The proposer in the government law provides great powers, as well as in the adoption of previous laws. In many members of the law, where the proposing should not have been clear, and where key issues are concerned, it leaves the government to adopt sublaws, allowing unlimited self-will and the Agency and the Government. In privatisation, free action by the employee of a given company is limited to a maximum of 15%. In many companies, workers will be damaged. The right of employees to receive free internship actions in other companies is lifted. The right of farmers to compete for free actions in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises is lifted, although farmers have all created it through the sale of their agricultural products. I will give only one example - a freezer was built in Merošina, the producers of the surplus were involved in the construction, because the sun was invested in the construction and they have neat documentation about it, they have books at Agrobanka and for 10 years no one pays them anything. It's 4,000 farmers. Why don't they have and can't they have the right to action because they've invested their money? When the refrigerator is sold, i.e. privateizes, who's gonna pay the farmers back their money? The law gave great authority to the action fund in the sale of company shares. The rapid export of large quantities of shares on the market knocks down their price and value of the company's capital, because when a lot of goods are exported to the market, it has a very low price. The previous Tax Act on extra income and extra property does not fit the privatisation environment. Can one of our citizens apply to buy a company? Is that going to be a sign to examine the extra assets? What does it mean that companies will only be able to buy foreign bosses? Secondly, there is a danger that someone invests money and buys a company, and that in a few years, when you are not in power, and the authorities of a party that is now not and only activates your law on extra property for the period from when privatisation takes place. It will be an hour to find the use of special benefits and the customer can be left without money and without company, so it will be said that you were in office when you bought the company, you bought a cheap company because you were in a party that was in power, you bribed people from the Agency, you shared with some difference to the real value of the company. Privatisation was done in our neighbouring countries, and someone said that about the pay phone. I must say, there are similar laws in neighbouring countries that have been privatizing. I'm afraid we didn't prescribe Bulgarian law, because in Bulgaria, of the 28 experts doing privatisation, 25 were arrested. There is room for repairs of this law and probably it needs to be repaired through amendments, only for the benefit of our workers and our citizens. Small enterprises, which are based on local administrations, were to be left to municipalities to privatise and receive income. And more than that, because these companies will continue to do services to the municipalities, so that there is no problem. It is thought of utility companies in smaller municipalities, because the municipalities will depend on them. If it's excusable, there might be a problem. That's why the entire budget of some municipalities can only go to these companies. Next, why is it not better in law-sighted land? It's not about the company. It's about the buildings. It's about the land taken away. If it is known whose country and what is its price, why didn't we give these citizens free shares at the cost of his part of the country? I will give an example -- in Merošina there is a SKC Cloud Lake, built on 100 ha of land, in the morning of the people of the village of Clouda. They didn't share the morning to use it together. Why can't I take part in a division of action now, where justice would be settled? In the end, the Prime Minister said the public was provided. The public in the work is probably supposed to be secure, because the promoters say there's nothing here to hide from whom. Since party property is not privatised, but state and social property, I propose that all commissions formed be composed of representatives of all parties in parliament. At the very end, I want to give the citizens an invitation to come to protest The Hague, so that no one ever delivers to The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10208	The People's MP Vojislav Jankovic has the word, and then the MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10209	The Honorable Madam Chairman, Mr. Minister, honourable MPs, are the proposals of these three laws -- the privatisation law, the privatisation agency and the action fund really historic or not going to show time. But we can already say that the government's historic determination to make a quick and complete break-up with social property. Social property was created as a surrogate of state property, but all of us who have lived in Serbia for the last 10 years know that social property is a different name for party property, i.e. even more precisely, for family property and the Markovic-Milosevic clan. That this is thus evidenced by an accelerated property transformation, it was called under the previous law, in which socialist directors set off after the September elections and after October 5th. It is also the government's determination to make the full and fastest possible privatisation, saying that we are not dealing with the Government of Routiners, but that we have before us a government of true economic reformers. The previous law on its own transformation in its essence was internal and meant free division of shares to workers. The basic flaw of this concept is that there is no fresh capital, there is no development that is necessary for our economy. As a result, it comes to the further collapse of our economy. The final result is that workers who received these free shares today sell them at 5-10% of their nominal value. Whether it is an unforeseen flaw of the previous concept or a strategic projection of the most powerful people of the previous regime -- you can judge for yourself. My answer was that this was about the most serious intention of the previous regime's summit to transform social, read -- party property into personal property, and that the moment they came down from political power they were the owners of Serbia. Fortunately, events have past them and failed to realise that plan. Today we have a law that has a different concept and I expect more positive effects from this law. First of all, this law defines ownership and places a Serbian economy on the basis of which every successful economy on this planet rests. Then, the next quality of this law is the obligation of procedure. In four years, virtually no more social property, and today there are no economists who, regardless of political orientation, are going to confirm whether left or right political orientations, that social property is an economically successful model of rejuvenation. If that's the case, and it is, there's no reason why we shouldn't break up quickly and resolutely and bury this economic dead man. This law provides public proceedings as a defense for possible abuses. The privatisation process involves the authorities of companies, trade unions, privatisation agencies and the government. The opposition's remarks that the government has taken too much power and that it opens up the possibility for a variety of abuses I don't think they stand. On the contrary, the government and the public in the work are the dams that should deter other participants in the privatisation process from possible abuses. But certainly the greatest quality of the proposed concept is that it implies money for investment, which is what is most needed for the Serbian economy. So this law has a strong development component, and this next step means opening new jobs. The opposition's remarks that there will be job cuts do not stand. As a consequence of this law, there will be an abolition of jobs, unfortunately or fortunately. I mean, lucky. Namely, those unworkable places are the one about the neck weight of a weak Serbian economy that threatens to drag it to the bottom. The task of the economy is not social. Socially, it's the state's task. That's why this government is the government of reformers. This government is the first government to move the social community out of the company and move to the budget, where it belongs. We are all witnessing that the government's social programs are working very well right now. The economy in which fresh investment capital will enter, means -- an economy that will open new jobs, which means in the next step, new jobs will be created. As a logical consequence of this law, good corporate governance and stock exchange traffic are expected at realistic, market values. The remarks from the SPS deputies-ada are a public fraud and that the conspiracy of multinational companies is inconclusive and I don't think even those who pronounce them believe them. The point that this is a socially unfair law is, by my judgment, political demagogy. Social justice, namely, exists only in economically successful societies. It's the societies that came up with the idea of absolute social justice, I mean communism and socialism of communist implementation, that in their developed form, they gave the greatest social breakdowns. Ladies and gentlemen, the path to social justice leads to an economically successful society. It's a real order of moves, and it's good that this government is running its own policy. That is why I and the other MPs of the Democratic Party will vote for this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10210	The word is by MP Veroljub Arsic and then Milan Stanimirovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10211	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the old law on privatisation on a proposal from the minister, was abolished about five months ago. I can say that during this debate there was a lot of mention of that law. In particular, he was mentioned by Mr. Minister, as well as Mr. Jovanovic. The old law was criticised. They also called it "burazer's privatisation" and "hoist law", but I must tell you, and especially those who passed this law, to take care of how these people are declared behind this speaker, because the law was voted by the SPS coalition and the New Democracy, with the vice-president of the Republic government, and the current interior minister. So, when it comes to adjectives, bro, or -- thief, I couldn't plead for this pay phone, because it's still about your minister. Hand to heart, this law is better than all those before, and it is also one of the best legal proposals the DOS has ever passed, although it has that characteristic of most DOS laws, which is that it does not comply with the federal constitution on property that is privatized. The law itself is, as it can be seen, about the deadlines foreseen for privatisation are extremely precise and these deadlines, given the very technique of privatisation under this law, are extremely short. This raises the question of how much the ministry and the agency could implement this privatisation within such short deadlines. Furthermore, the law could also provide that companies, which are classified as small enterprises by the number of workers and the crafts capital they possess, which do not require a specific assessment, because such an assessment is already the real PDO, i.e. the NBJ, to be privatised through the authorities of local self-government, and thus these authorities would have access to certain resources. Only the ministry and the agency would be relieved of one part of the companies that are privatised. It could be predicted that for a certain period of time, a customer should not fire a certain number of workers. This would give the government or buy a certain amount of time, avoid high unemployment at one point, and thus the government would get, with one proposal, the possibility that later, due to the opening of the market, new jobs. When it comes to large public enterprises, such as NIS, Elektroprivreda, RTB Bor, or their privatisation, two things should be taken into account. The first is that, given the current economic power of the country, for these public enterprises we would not get 10% of their actual value. The funds collected through the privatisation of small and medium-sized enterprises could, among other things, be invested in the reorganisation of large public enterprises, their modernisation, the establishment of torn production continents and thus increase the multiple value of what we would get today and what we would invest from today to their final sales. The second reason is the current political situation in the environment. For these four years, I don't believe anything important would change, but it had to be borne in mind that these are enterprises that are important for the functioning of the state as a whole. Until political conditions are acquired for their sale, they should not be sold. And the more expensive we sell them, the more guarantees we have that these companies will not be abused, but because of the amount of capital that the buyer invests, that this amount of capital will be the guarantee that they will be used for the purpose for which it is intended, which would also be the engine of Serbia's development. However, as much as one law, and with such changes, was good, the success of its application depends on who enforces that law, i.e. Mr. Minister, from this government. I doubt this government has enough courage and honesty, as well as abilities, to carry out this law in a good way. For example, in article 56 of this law, privatisation costs are determined by the minister, and you, ministers, worked in one company, which dealt with the valuation of the value of capital and, although you said to this speaker Thursday that you first withdrew your actions from the company, you said yesterday that you had sold those shares. Let it be as you say. Or what makes me more suspicious is the prospectus for the value of the company, in part D-1, where the next parameter - the accounting value of the company is listed. According to the Accounting and Accounting Act, the accounting value of the company is between five and nine times smaller than real, Mr. Minister. So that's what you should have taken care of. And just one more question for you, Mr. Minister, from the moment you abolished the Privatisation Act, many businesses in Serbia have been leased for 25 years. Among other things, he was hired by the Centre for Agriculture in Pogorevec for 25 years. A criminal complaint has been filed against the director and the tenant. The tenant is Dusan Markovic, the godfather of Zoran Djindjic. And now I'm asking you -- how do you think you privatize such a company, which has already been leased for 25 years? You have to admit that it's already privatized, and the price of that company will be determined by the tenant, because it's a 25-year-old monopoly. If earlier these laws were Burazer's privatisation laws, now I'm asking a question -- what is this law, when the Prime Minister's godfather is doing something like this? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10212	The word would have been by MP Milan Stanimirovic, but it is not present, nor does MP Ljubomir Kragovic, who cannot get the word, because according to electronic records, can be compared to the copy, is not present in the hall. The word is by MP Vitomir Plužarevic, who is also not present and can be compared to a computer copy. The word is made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10213	This insolence has not happened in the congregation to this day. I order a breach of the Rules of Procedure, Rule 93. If you are already so persistent as to see which of the MPs of the SRS are not registered, because we wanted to determine exactly how many of you there are in the hall, that then your conscience and morality allow you to skip the document: Radoslav Vesenović, who came out as soon as he finished the speech, was no longer back, Vojislav Došen, who did not come at all today to the session, was not registered, Boris Karaičić, who was not in the hall at all, was not there, Nada Kolundžija, who was not coming, Bojan Kostreš, who was not registered and was not there, Jelena Milenkovic, who came in five minutes ago, and the card was not put in, as if there was not there, Meho Omerović, who was not coming at all, Mr. Bojan Pajtic, who had not been in the sitting for three days, Mrko Petrović, who was not present, Srda Popović, who was not there at all, Dr. I apologize only to Jakov Stamenkovic, who has now come; Aleksandar Stefanovic, who has not come at all today; Dr Predrag Stojanovic, who has not come at all; Miroslav Christodulo, who has not come at all. How can you even call the MPs of the SRS when you stole 15 presences to secure the quorum? We're discussing a very important law, gentlemen of the DOS, get as much as you want, you're not interested in this law at all. You're not interested in anything anymore. You've secured the extradition of Serbs to The Hague and the donor conference, and you're putting all your hopes into it, and that's your excuse for letting things happen here. Mrs. Komic, you're a quorum for 15 minutes until all the cards arrive, as long as you need them, and until they are deployed to the MPs from these political parties, who are responsible for quorums. I'd ask this monkey not to throw me out of the O.R., shame on you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10214	I thank Parliamentarian Tomislav Nikolic and I owe an explanation for the objection to the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 93. The fact that MP Tomislav Nikolic follows closely and knows all the MPs in the hall is, of course, commendable for the MP, and there will already be some elections, in which I assume that someone from the SRS will also chair and take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I would like to explain that the fact that when I call upon a MP of the people, who has a word, which he has the right to do, is that I have an obligation by the Rules of Procedure to see if the MP respects the position of Article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly to be identified when entering the O.R. Since that was not a fact, I then found that, with the claim that it could be checked, of course, with a computer copy of the record, that MP Ljubomir Kragovic was not in the O.R. at that time, as I would be obliged, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, to give him notice, because he acted according to Article 101, the last position, the last provision in that article, acts against the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Both for him and for every other MP, I say he's not in electronic records. Therefore, I find that there is no breach of the Rules of Procedure by the views that you have made, and if you wish, we can plead that by voting. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10215	I warned you there was an abuse of cards. You now resent an MP who does not identify himself with his card when entering the hall, and you do not find a word of rebuke for those who abuse other people's cards, and for MPs, who have not been in the session for days, here to verify their arrival, perhaps even travel expenses and the collection of the logs for attending the session. And since you're getting into it, and in the forecast of the next election, that I tell you something nice -- you can do whatever you want, you can now, based on article 127. - don't mind, but I think I've guessed - to bring one recommendation to the Republic Government to follow the federal government, so to bring, the Republic Government, the regulation that, let's say, all of us who were in the Republic Government at the time of NATO's defence from the aggression to The Hague. You can, you can, you can, you know, Marian's looking forward to it, you're all looking forward to it. It would be a great pleasure for you to keep the political field clean, for you to bleed, finally, from DOS, as you intend, so you will never get there. I recommend it, from my heart, because you have caused such hatred in the people, and so you have a blood fight with your political rivals, that the question is, are we ever going to make peace again? That's what I'm telling you as advice, because I know you'll deserve your behavior to have someone shine on you. I don't want to, but I can see what's going on.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10216	Mr. Nikolic, please remain under the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10217	Is that some kind of a hoot behind me? In the transition of power, someone else will laugh while your children cry. Don't ever get that out of your mind.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10218	I find that MP Tomislav Nikolic, I am sure of my best intentions, by reporting for a word on the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, does so himself, and I really ask him not to allow himself, neither, nor, by calling on the rules ourselves to contribute to the violation of the rules, and I would ask that the debate remain within what is the subject and subject of this item of the agenda and what are the facts about the events at the sitting itself. I replied that what I find to be an electronic record of the presence of MPs, I can react to it, and we can agree on an informal order in the Assembly that a computer copy is being continuously delivered and that it is being followed, because all MPs must respect the provision of Article 113 and MPs who have not received a word because I have not been present for anything since I have not singled out Milan Stanimirovic, who is not an MP of the Serbian Radical Party, who, for the same reasons, has not received a word because of the lack in the electronic record, is not present. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Jakov Stamenkovic answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10219	I am advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 96(1), which says that if the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insulting to the MP from another parliamentary group. Mr. Tomislav Nikolic, I've been here all day and I was yesterday. You have said in your additional explanation - I apologize to Jakov Stamenkovic, who has now entered and therefore, the truth works I have been here since the beginning and I think I am one of the most regular MPs who attend the meetings of the Assembly and I do not think it is correct to say so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10220	According to the Rules of Procedure, a reminder should be made to the MP who acts in a way that is not true to other MPs, but I am sure that Mr Tomislav Nikolic has made an unintended statement, and there are other names on that list that he untruely called after the pay phone, so we will be left without notice following the remarks of Mr Jacob Stamenkovic. National MP Natasa Jovanovic, objections to the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10221	Gentlemen, I'm advocating the violation of Rules of Procedure of Rule 113 and of Article 101. I have to do it for the public and for those of you who may not have a Rules of Procedure or you don't know it, I need to read what's in article 113. "For the MP who uses the identification card of the second MP, otherwise abuses the electronic voting system of the National Assembly president, proposes a move away from the session, and the vote in which the abuse was carried out will be annulled and immediate access to identification and re-voting." This is about attitude 101, where it is said "If any other procedure is in breach of the order of the sitting or against the provisions of this Rules of Procedure, he is told a reminder." The deputy president of our parliamentary group, Mr Tomislav Nikolic, has taxed on which MPs have also made an official record of the entrance to the Assembly Hall and for the apparent lack of presence in the O.R., please be determined by the chairman, the competent services and that, in accordance with Articles 113 and 101. The Rules of Procedure give notice, and the future distance from the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10222	I thank National MP Natasa Jovanovic, with the second position of Article 113 referring to the abuse of the electronic voting system. I really thank you, because the abuse of the electronic voting system implies and the disrespect of the 1st member of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which means the obligation to identify MPs at the entrance to the hall. The names of MPs who have misused their parliamentary cards, if any, will be determined truthfully, and on the first position of the same Article 113, I can determine that in the third row of the National Assembly there are three MPs sitting in seats two, three, and eight. In the fourth row sits in seats two, seven and six, fifth row in seat one and six. On the recommendation of National MP Natasa Jovanovic, we should give a measure of distance to MPs who abuse their cards and do not identify themselves when entering the hall, but I think it is wrong, because MPs still participate in the debate and use their cards as a method of parliamentary struggle. National MP Stevan Z.Gurudic, violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10223	Madam Chairman, hold our letter so well and then look at the other side, so you can figure it out. In a few previous days, you have been referred to this observation, and you have not once taken any action that follows the Rules of Procedure. Therefore, do not keep us on speaker watch, but keep order in the congregation and treat everyone equally. According to article 113 here in one row, there were six families, and there were eight cards, nothing changed, no one came in, no one came out, and therefore, if you look at one side, look at everything and have the same archaic. You chair the entire assembly, not individual parliamentary groups.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10224	To the entire assembly, if we want to figure out the order where the MP sits, and that's not the problem, from line to line on the monitor, so the public can see. So what I see is what MPs have identified themselves as they enter the O.R. I believe that it is necessary for all of us to respect the provisions of Article 113, and I will certainly ask that it be determined whether the true allegations expressed by Tomislav Nikolic and I ask all MPs not to abuse the position of Article 113 or other provisions of this article, which implies our relationship to the truth regarding the official presence of the Members of the People's Parliament in the National Assembly. The word is made by MP Dragan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10225	I think the Rules of Procedure was hurt when a break was given because of the lack of quorum, because the Assembly had a quorum. Even if what was placed on the number of ill-identified MPs is true, more than 30 MPs do not insert their cards and therefore, the actual and factical Assembly had a quorum and a break due to the lack of quorum is not in line with the Rules of Procedure and if we are to compete each time, then the only solution is counting. We're gonna ask for it from now on, because we're looking for rights, not fulfilling obligations, I don't want to describe what it means. Therefore, the public purpose of this is propaganda, attempt to compromise, etc. So to add all of this up, the Assembly had a quorum. The point is whether the congregation has a quorum or not. The assembly has a quorum, she had a break. So we'll always suggest counting and see if there's a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10226	MP Alexander Vukic, breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10227	I was there when I checked in, so don't be nervous.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10228	Please, let's hear from each other.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10229	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10230	I ask the People's Parliaments to listen to each other and to respect all the provisions of the Rules of Procedure concerning the obligations of the Members of Parliament and of the People's MP who is behind the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10231	In accordance with Article 93, a few things just to tell the ruling majority MPs, who are trying to take responsibility for the quorum and the lack of quorum to transfer to opposition parties. There aren't 30 of us who don't give you quorum. Only one parliamentary group in the National Assembly of the Republic of Drbia does not want you, DOS, to make quorum, which is the SRS's parliamentary group. We from the parliamentary group... (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: What are you doing to make a quorum for us? Don't yell, come out and yell from this pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10232	I ask the MPs not to receive the speaker. (Milka Marinkovic, from the place: I want to yell, what are you going to do now? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10233	What do you say, you want to yell? So, responsibility for making and creating quorum, I didn't say that, that's what they threw, I mean from socialist lines, I didn't say that. So, as far as you're concerned, there are 176 of you in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, which is supposed to be you, and you're never even 80 in this room, and you're the majority. That's why you can't be allowed to do that, such insecureness and such irresponsibility. That's the point. I would suggest, since you're saying it's not true about Jakova Stamenkovic, although Tomislav Nikolic said he was only wrong about Jacob Stamenkovic, where Bojan Pajtic is your third day here, he's not even on record. How is it possible for him to be on the document with his card? Get anyone out here to say that. He forgot his card three days ago, so he's registered for himself for three days. Don't make a joke with all of Serbia, it doesn't make sense what you're saying. It's not funny at all. There are more MPs, there are Stefanovic and some others, three days have not entered the Assembly, and their cards are here. What are you talking about? What are you talking about? I have one proposal for you, Madam Chairman, to solve all these problems. In order not to be troubled, I accept that the National Assembly brings guidelines to the Republic Government, which you should now hear, to bring the regulation, Mr Risticevic will immediately accept, I'm sure, and others in this room, to bring in the regulation by which you will radicalize us all to shoot.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10234	Three minutes and 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10235	I agree, and I strongly recommend you, I strongly recommend that you bring in the regulation and shoot us all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10236	Three minutes and 45 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10237	To bring in the regulation and shoot us all, here I am. I'm not joking at all, because after everything you do to both Serbia and the Serbian people and political opponents, that's much better, not to say, but the best solution for you. Just don't throw anymore how you love us, the hard Serbia you love the way you love, especially us with radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10238	I ask the MPs for some peace and order. The MP has the right to present proposals from his party's programme, and now and always during the session of this assembly, but this is not the subject that the chairman will put to the vote. Are we done breaking the Rules of Procedure? A Rules of Procedure or a Replic? The basis for the replica? (Marian Risticevic approaches the speaker: He mentioned me...) ) I gave an explanation for such a proposal, the People's MP Vukic mentioned your name only and of course there will be no talk of anything that is like a proposal for the Assembly. You have no basis for replication. National MP Dragan Tomic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure. I ask the People's Messengers not to earn and honor the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10239	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this problem can easily be solved. That's the one from the corner, he's always yelling "come on," he understands this right here. And you are from which there was a party, that you should replicate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10240	I ask MP Tomic to say which member of the Rules of Procedure has been broken.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10241	Article 113, which you use all the time from the pay phone, and since you are referring to the fact that there is a well-established record here and that it is determined every day, I suggest that the Assembly make the next decision, yes, around Sloba and The Hague, I'll do it a little later...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10242	I ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure and not to earn.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10243	The proposal is to establish an accurate record of the presence of MPs participating in the debate, which the citizens of this Serbia have chosen and expected some of them for their interests. They're very nice these days, and believe me, especially when you get out of here and talk about the history of the Serbian people. I ask that a decision be made to read before tomorrow's session begins to record the presence of 250 MPs in this room for each session over the last month. From the beginning, it would be a lot, but for the last month, yes, so we're going to be able to figure out who wants to do something in the interest of the Serbian people, and who's just minding their own business. About what you've been commenting on, about Sloba in The Hague and about Serbian interests, gentlemen, we'll tell you all this tonight at the 6:00 rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10244	Please, MP Dragan Tomic came out after the violation of the Rules of Procedure, under Rule 113, and made no comment on Article 113, but a proposal on what should happen at the National Assembly session. National MP Tomic, are you interested in explaining the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? I find the MP is not interested in hearing the explanation. (Dear Tomic, from the scene: "Tomorrow we will win for the session..." ) But this applies to Article 67. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly that treats the presidency's obligation to notify the MPs of various issues at the National Assembly session, not Article 113. National MP Tomislav Panajotovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and a National MP Marijan Rističević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10245	Ladies and gentlemen, Article 113. The rules of procedure have become very popular. If anything is to be acknowledged to our colleagues sitting on the right in this assembly, it is a fact that they have been preparing very seriously for the sittings and that they are very seriously following what is happening to the Rules of Procedure. Of course, they occasionally forget about Article 113, paragraph 1, where MPs are said to be identified when entering the O.R. by inserting a card. Such forgetfulness is obvious and present now, as is the case with some of our SPS colleagues. The constitutional obligation of each MP is to participate in the work of the Assembly. What does that mean? Right and duty. The moment MPs do not perform their duty by attending and participating in the work, they must bear responsibility, not only in front of the parties who chose them, but also in front of the people. There's a very skillful attempt here to exploit the fact that sometimes there aren't enough DOS deputies in this assembly, and that's true. DOS MPs work, of course, the rest of the parliamentary groups, on the very serious affairs of the president of the assembly, the president of the executive boards, directors of large companies and companies, as the Assembly works continuously and continuously. They are sometimes obliged and obliged to remain in their jobs to coordinate the work of their congregation. Therefore, an attempt to qualify the absence of DOS MPs as a leave due to the presence of the assembly restaurant, which unfortunately works as it works or beside the buffet, is absolutely not true. Please appreciate that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10246	One correction, I addressed to MP Dragan Tomic, whom a member of the Rules of Procedure should refer to intervention on other issues, Article 82, 67 refers to the agenda. Excuse me. I said I'm sorry. The word is made by MP Marijan Rističević, according to the Rules of Procedure, and by MP Dragan Todorovic, also according to the Rules of Procedure. I ask the Members of Parliament to respect the Rules of Procedure without being thrown away. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Do you chew teeth? )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10247	And you don't have a brain. Since you've made an insult, I'm obliged to answer you. You can experience the fate of dinosaurs. They were extinct because they had a large body and a small brain. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Article 96, which refers to the right and the giving of a replica, and I quote, "If the MP in his presentation at the session of the National Assembly is insulting to another MP," and so on, he is given the right to reply. This is where my name was mentioned twice, once my first name. For the first time, I was told to look forward to it because Serbian radicals are going to The Hague or if the government adopts a regulation that they are going to The Hague, I will look forward to it. That's not so true. Another time was said to shoot Serbian radicals. For two reasons, I wouldn't do that. First of all, I'm a thrifty man, and that's why I'm saving ammo, and second of all, I'm a human man. As far as the Hague court is concerned, I consider it partially anti-Serb court, and there is some assurance that it is an anti-Serb court. I ask them, who are you Serbs when neither will the Hague court? [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10248	National MP Dragan Todorovic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure, and a National MP, Aleksandar Vukic. National MP Dragan Todorovic called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10249	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to draw attention to this distinguished home for a constant violation of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, which says, "People's MPs must respect the dignity of the National Assembly, and they are obliged to address one another with respect. "So, in accordance with this article, I demand that the National Assembly plead on the injury of this member, in the case of my predecessor, and at the same time I would like to point out one fact about the falseness of this speaker. More specifically, those who have arrested for two years from being present in this assembly hall, those who have not wanted to appear at the meetings of the Assembly, are now coming and talking about how we should be making a quorum for DOS, which does not have a majority, a simple majority of its MPs. You have 176. You know very well that these were MPs from the Democratic Party, who had received their salary for two years, all had privileges, Mr Panajotovic, and they did not find it appropriate to appear here in the Assembly. Now they're holding a vaquela, as my great friend Mile said, about how we should behave in the congregation hall. Around The Hague, come tonight at 6:00 p.m. for a rally and you'll hear all about it, and it's a disgrace for our assembly to be so pessimistic and with such disrespect we treat this very important issue for the whole nation gentlemen. [[Sagar.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10250	Please don't abuse the pay phone anymore, so we don't privatise it anymore. I really need to ask and explain. I have to explain to MP Dragan Todorovic, no one here is obliged to make a quorum. It is determined here, and our common obligation is to respect the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, Article 113. Exiting the National Assembly session and non-identification or identification can also be interpreted as a method of parliamentary struggle. Every time we take for ourselves the right to fight in parliament in a certain way, then others take it. If you wish, MP Dragan Todorovic, does he wish to vote on the 1st Article's injury to the position of 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly? Yeah. ) National MP Dragan Todorovic expressed his dissatisfaction with the explanation of the chairman, I would like to make it clear that the position of Article 113 has been violated. Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. For 38, against 86, with two abstentions, it didn't vote 24, a total of 150. I find that the National Assembly has not made a positive statement about Parliament MP Dragan Todorovic's proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10251	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, should I mention you to get a replica? I will mention you, Mr. Panayotovic, to get a replica, we are gentlemen, unlike you, and we are not afraid of political answers. So now I'm going to the shooting, don't worry, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10252	I ask you to respect the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and that firing as a proposal be no longer the subject of talks between the MP and the speaker at the speaker of the National Assembly, without being thrown away. Please indeed, and I warn you of a common obligation to respect the decisions of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Excuse me, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10253	Strange things were happening behind this pay phone in a speech about Article 113 and Article 98. Namely, the man who spoke before me did not only insult the MPs and the National Assembly, it was Marijan Rističević, but I would say that it never occurred to anyone to say from this pay phone, tried to win your attention and got your mouse smiles, to me completely incomprehensible. For what? The fact that someone is looking forward to the fact that the government might hang, because they don't want to spend ammunition, that someone's looking forward to it and that someone's grieving that someone's not on the Hague list, and he'd like it to be on the Hague list and because there's no radicals on that list, so he'd like to say that we're not the ones who should be defending Serbs going to The Hague, I just have to tell him, and the breach of the Rules of Procedure is in the next. Don't worry, I won't make a mistake, the violation of the Rules of Procedure is that after so many terrible words and the worst possible primitives that have nothing to do with throwing what Milk or anyone else can do, but with something a million times up, he didn't get a warning. In addition to you, Mrs. Comic, sat down and now sat down, which excluded the SRS MPs because they said there were corrupt ministers. You warned the MPs of the SRS because they were saying DOS is the worst. He was neither interrupted nor internally warned, let alone officially warned that his word had been taken from him. Absolutely nothing. I have nothing against it, because it's good and it's the face of Serbia, let the people see who he voted for. Let him see what DOS is like. Let me tell you something else. You can't have double standards like that. For DOS is the worst, the warning, and for such insults for what has been said, no offense, but I don't know what name to call it, you laugh and you keep quiet and what you care what happened and what anyone said. That's the point. As for Article 113, which Mr. Panajotovic spoke of, he said in the first position, which was spoken of by Mr. Panajotovic, that MPs are obliged to use their identification cards. Who used Bojan Pitiæ's card. Who? It's from your client. Come out and tell us if we're wrong. Tell us, Mr. Panayotovic, who used his card, and the man didn't come to the Assembly for three days? Is that true? You don't know? Two seats sitting behind you. He hasn't come to the Assembly in three days. (President: Four minutes. You said you'd count me in on the minute you took away from me. (President: I did, 50 seconds. This is the first warning. I suggest one more time, and it's from yours, not our program, bring the tuning, shoot us and solve all the problems.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10254	I ask the MPs to listen to the message I repeat the third time, when it comes to Article 113, and not to replace the themes and themes, when it comes to procedures at the National Assembly session. The MPs have the right to indicate a violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Please, all those who wish to indicate a breach count to three and then do not repeat the provisions of the Rules of Procedure which have already been mentioned in the debate on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. Currently, all MPs present in the Assembly are violating the Rules of Procedure, for they do not pay attention to what is an explanation of the violation of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. National MP Aleksandar Vukic, reporting a breach to the businessman, gave the basis for the replica of MP Marjan Risticevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10255	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I haven't asked for a moment to hang anyone. I said I wasn't into shooting for two reasons. One is that I need to save ammo and another, that I'm human. So, I can't think of anyone to shoot, to hang, and no Serbian radicals. Secondly, I did not look forward to The Hague court at all, even rated it as a partial political court and anti-Serbian court. There's no reason to doubt my patriotic detachment. So, I'm not looking forward to any sense of trouble, any citizen, no Serb, no other citizen of this country. That way, I will not look forward to any Serbian radicals being delivered to The Hague tribunal. I want to remind my colleague of the following -- they're always complaining that they're being denied something here. I've been in the last session since I was 31 for the pay phone, 27 times denied for direct transmission, 23 times I didn't have a tone, and four times neither a tone nor a picture. At the time, my colleague Vukic was a minister of information. I'm not bringing him into this for a moment, and I know he wasn't responsible, even though he was the Minister of Information, that he wasn't responsible for taking his tone off. He's trying to tell me I'm responsible for The Hague tribunal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10256	National MP Marijan Risticevic had a replica, and according to the Rules of Procedure, no one else can have a basis for replication. National MP Gordana Pop - Lazic, according to the Rules of Procedure. I hope the MP Gordana Pop - Lazic is identified as being present in the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10257	That's what you check, that's your job. Mrs. Comic, you are an absolute culprit that we have been dealing with the Rules of Procedure for half an hour instead of doing the law, because under Article 28 of the President, in this case you, as chairman and vice president, should take care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Tomislav Nikolic, using the official ID your service has issued, is here read about not being present in this room, and has been identified as being present. What you should do as the chairman- what the second position of Article 113 points to is that, because of your abuse, you suggest a distance measure from the session of the person who has misused someone else's identification card. You have gone beyond that by providing an explanation that we should also take care of the position of the first member, who obliges all MPs to identify themselves when entering the hall. That's right. That's why you can give us a warning measure. But let me teach you. A warning measure of the escalator which is far weaker than the distance from the session. Therefore, step away from the session and determine who of the MPs has abused other people's identification cards, because in this way we can question all the decisions you have made so far, because even now that we have voted on whether the Rules of Procedure has been broken, there have been only 88 DOS MPs. Don't expect us to give the quorum to DOS and most of us. Of you 176, not to be present for 99 MPs, and you want to work in the congregation. We sit here for 23 days, we don't go out and work, while you walk around Prince Michael's, restaurants, etc., and then you call us for trouble or for but whether we've identified ourselves or not. When we came in this morning, we all checked in neatly, we all identified ourselves, and let's at least go out to the bathroom during the day, at least if nothing else, and you're sitting there working.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10258	Since we already had a theme, I explained that the MP has the right to a computer copy. The determination of whether the objections of the MP were in place we elaborated on the case of MP Jakov Stamenkovic. The People's MP, Dejan Mihajlov, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10259	Dear Parliament, under Article 99. Rules of Procedure, where it is said that the dignity of this assembly should be respected. I can speak on behalf of the DSS MPs, and I believe that many other MPs think so, that the way we work in this assembly and where we have lost more than an hour in stories about the Rules of Procedure is totally unacceptable. No one from the DSS has been involved in a debate over the Rules of Procedure, nor will they ever be involved, because we believe that the people did not choose us to spend an hour and a half of precious time, in the case of a law most important to the future of this country, on stories about the Rules of Procedure. I ask the President of the Assembly, when we come across the situation that there are too many applications for the Rules of Procedure, to take a break, to consult with the heads of Parliament clubs and representatives of the parties, to agree, if we want to work in the interests of these citizens, to make views and for and against, to express it in an atmosphere that will allow us to adopt some of the crucial laws for the future of this country as we like a home, and not from this home to create a circus, although it may be in someone's interest. But at least the parliamentary majority to refrain from having so many outposts in the Rules of Procedure, to concentrate on the adoption of this law and thus to undo the negative effects that the opposition in this Parliament wants to put before the citizens and thus show that we are different from them and that we want to work in the interests of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10260	The MP has an assessment of the way in which the Rules of Procedure was used, i.e. the right of Members of Parliament to call attention to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, but I do not think that it is a serious issue enough to be decided by MPs who are representatives or presidents of parliamentary groups. The use or abuse of the Rules of Procedure is unfortunately the right, or fortunately, of the Members of the People. Is MP dean mihail satisfied with the explanation? No, it's not. Or--wants to vote? He doesn't want to. ) National MP Slobodan Janjic, according to the Rules of Procedure, and MP Tomislav Nikolic appears on the replica of Parliamentarian Marijan Rističević, as representative of the parliamentary group, by the fact that MP Marijan Rističević had a replica to the presentation of MP Aleksandr Vukic. (Wolf, from the place: I have no right, but he does. ) Replica on the replica of the MP and representative of the SRS parliamentary group, please, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10261	Now we're going to find the quorum. To a comment from an O.R. that you don't understand. ) Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, here is the truth about the behaviour of the SRS at the time when it was in the Government of the Republic of Serbia and especially about the behaviour of Alexander Vukic, who was then the Minister of Information. And, he knows very well, MP Risticevic, that he was really covered here, as experts say, as I used to say, now those who do direct TV transmission, and could never hear Serbia in a direct transmission of what Marijan Risticevic is saying, but that is why it is in "radical waves", from word to word, conveyed everything that Marijan Risticevic said. Aleksandar Vukic even said at a press conference that television had carried out a kind of coup with Marijana Rističević, and I think Vesenova, covering here and not allowing them to speak. However, the explanation we received in television was that Marijan Risticevic has two larger teeth and is not understood by Serbian citizens in a direct transmission of what he says.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10262	I ask the People's MP to speak politely to the National Assembly in his comments on other MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10263	That was an explanation. That's what Marian knows. We showed that argument. And don't warn us of dignity in this congregation. We preserve the dignity of this congregation. We also preserve the dignity of this land, unlike many of you, unlike most of you who have trampled, cast under the feet and into the mud the dignity of this land... (President: I ask the People's MP to continue to respect the dignity of the National Assembly when speaking to the courts of such a kind. )......................................................................................................... the dignity of its citizens, the future of our children and the future of our future relations. Remember, you have irretrievably excavated a "war axe" with many Serbian citizens with your relationship with them and with their families. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10264	I'm taking a break because it's another 10 minutes to 14 hours, or 13.50... (Glasses - must be voted before it stops. We don't have to vote. We'll wait with your remarks on the violation of the Rules of Procedure. (The comment concerns MP Slobodan Janjic, who points out the violation of the Rules of Procedure and asks for a word. We continue our work at 3:30 p.m. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10265	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please insert identification cards into MPs to determine the quorum. I figure we have a quorum and we can keep working. I give my word to the MP, Mr. Vitomir Plužarevic, and the next one is Mr. Allen Selimovic. Before that, we have advertising violations of the Rules of Procedure, MP Mr. Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10266	I am advertising the violation of Rules of Procedure, Rule 113, which regulates the recording of MPs' presence at the National Assembly session. I would ask the chairman to tell me if his system can determine whether I am now registered here in the Assembly as an MP? You've got a signal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10267	Mr. Janjic, I can't see if you've been reported correctly, since I don't know which seat you're sitting in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10268	I'm sitting in the fourth row seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10269	If I have to, I'll ask for a copy. We have a quorum and to continue to work, please let us be effective. We've all been discussing this article 113.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10270	Mr. Ljubomir Kragovic put his card in and sat here in the O.R. next to me. You didn't give him your word and you said he wasn't registered in the O.R. Here's my card right here in seat number one in row four, says Janjic Free. So his card wasn't registered, and you didn't give him your word, and he was in the O.R. I guess it's more important whether the man is present or your electronic system.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10271	Mr. Janjic, are you talking to me about using a card?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10272	I am telling you that you have abused your place that you have not given a word to an MP who has the right to speak according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10273	You spoke, and I am now obliged to give you an explanation. Please step away from the pay phone. In fact, I've already given you an explanation during the dialogue. Are you happy with our conversation? Your colleague, Mr. Vitomir Plužarević, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10274	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party is earnestly seeking to implement privatisation and is a advocate of privatisation. However, the proposed text of the privatisation law has some shortcomings. It is unspeakable and leaves the government with the possibility, which identifies itself on many issues with the state that the privatisation process solves the ad hoc issue of privatisation only initially. Also a privatisation facility, a privatisation company has a small, almost no role to play. The right of citizens outside the specific enterprise to apply for free action in each company is lifted. The right of farmers to the right of the championship is abolished, including the right to buy free shares in cooperatives and agricultural enterprises. The status of farmers and all people engaged in the processing of the country should be analysed in detail. In my view, not to comment on every member and every item in principle, about 20 and more items are unclearly formulated in this bill. This law also has problems with the treatment of government authority. It is unclearly done and sold through the financial stock market (Articles 59 and 73).). The lawlessness is seen in the violation of Articles 64, 55 and 57. Serbia's Constitution and Article 64. The Constitution of Yugoslavia. The bill, which we are discussing today, is clear, says Minister Vlahovic. It aims to convert social capital into money as soon as possible, and that money should be transferred to the budget, which this year was on the agenda of this assembly, and we Serbian radicals have made concrete proposals regarding the budget, which is those six billion donations the DOS government expects, which it has promised to the people. Let them arrive, then this privatisation process will also be more peaceful, i.e. it will have reasonable deadlines. Functionality according to the real values of all companies will not be blackmailed, the value of the company will not be devalued. We know there's no social property anywhere in the world. We're pushing for that social capital to go to state capital. Then the state capital has its owner, and that's the state. After all the preparations that preceded this bill, which lasted for the last three months, were attended by various entities and institutions who believe this law should be accepted. We Serbian radicals comment on how much foreign investors will be interested in this privatisation, which are countries and for which branches they will be interested. We know it all depends on the external trade balance in Europe. The comment on the preparation of this law is the analysis of thinking with countries in transition, which had a similar or approximately similar law, but we have come to positive knowledge and these positive knowledge has been translated into this law. I don't think all this positive knowledge, which has been passed into the law, is enough for this law to be successful. The current situation in the economy is very difficult, and therefore the urgency of this legislation is legitimate. Investments and management should very dynamically complete the privatisation process. It's a good setting if it's known that we own both of these factors. If all we have is a wish, then it's negative. Foreign capital needs to speed up the privatisation process. Is he gonna make it and that's the question? Small and large enterprises are the basis of privatisation. The unemployment rate is 27%. We've got over one million people, formally unemployed. They need this legal formula to want privatisation. We mentioned the management in our country and it is one of the factors that needs to dynamic these activities, and it is believed to be at a higher level than Estonia, Hungary and other countries that have been in transition. Efficient economy, clear ownership regime, maximumisation of foreign capital inflows, investments, co-operative management, start building of the liberal economy and quotations on the stock market are a quality idea, but Mr Djindjic suggests that this law offers us an expectation that the foreign investor invests in our businesses to expect quality market, quality production and cheap labour. I think it's kind of an illusion. This law is better than the previous law, and the previous laws were better than all those previous laws. Today's experts change their minds from previous years. It may be a new comment to this law. I think that at the beginning of the law we need to build a new principle, which is that social property should be state property. If social and state property is treated equally here, it falls under the influence of the Constitution. Another problem in this law is the legal entity. They're talking about companies as legal entities. It can't be. The subject is the one who sells and the one who buys. That should have been made clear in this law. It's always the object of selling the facility. EPS, NIS and strategic enterprises must not be sold more than 49% by this privatisation. The denationalisation of this law is not well solved and it is one of the problems that is likely to have a negative flow of this law. A comment in Vojvodina has already been given to the broad conditions for the Germans who left Vojvodina in 1945. How can this be solved today? It's a big question, which this government needs to answer. Free shares under this law should be for all companies the same. In the issue of free action for citizens, a general provision has been left to regulate the government's regulation. That should be regulated by law. Public services must be equated if possible to purchase actions. They must be even with the others when it comes to citizens. They can't be limited for years, I mean adulthood. All citizens must be equal, from unborn to oldest citizen. It's a good thing this law doesn't play a retroactive role. This time, if the action is acquired, it must remain that way, from the point of view of the sale of shares, it should be regulated, i.e. set legal frameworks for the stock exchange. I'm afraid of corruption, because the people who need to do it aren't ready to sacrifice those values, which are called "fair". There's a commission planned, and that commission probably won't be able to monitor all that dynamic and activity if it goes any further. We Serbian radicals advocate privatisation. Obligation and constraint is our definition, but we couldn't do it for a variety of reasons, so we support these principles in the right sense of that word. In order for this to be safe, that is, for workers to have some security, and that security to be looked at within a five-year term, it is also foreseen by this privatisation law. We believe that social programmes should be done urgently, which will follow this law on privatisation, i.e. it will preserve some peace in the privatisation process. Here, and today, when the privatisation law is on the agenda, only certain ministers are present at the meeting of the Assembly. On June 21st at 10:20 p.m., 14 people from the government were present and immediately after Mr. Vojislav Seselj's presentation they picked up and left. So they were no longer interested in the debate or the thinking of the MPs who applied for this discussion. And today, when we discuss this law, there aren't many government interests in this matter. I am pleased that from these discussions, we have drawn information from Minister Vlahovic concerning "Deloit and Tuša", or the Economic Institute, let the people know that the capital is being acquired, i.e. that it is being achieved and in these ways. I'm afraid of this privatisation because the view of the fields is our businesses, and students in these field of observation have no responsibility in front of teachers or in front of the people. As far as Beocinski cement factories are concerned, and these things aren't clean, there's just a system of burazeric privatisation that you DOS gentlemen keep talking about. We'll see how it all ends.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10275	The word has a National MP, Allen Selimovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10276	Dear ladies and gentlemen, I won't speak for much longer, probably not more than five minutes, but I hope to get close to the essence of why this law should be passed. Why this kind of privatisation law, not free share of shares? Because workers will have nothing to do with the property of a company that will go bankrupt within a year. Workers need investments in a company that will provide them with safe bread, decent wages and dignity. Yes, dear ladies and gentlemen, dignity. That worker who knows that when he comes home, that he will be able to buy children food and clothing, to afford them perhaps a safe and decent life, that worker will have the dignity and that worker will have the motive to come back to work smiling and in the mood tomorrow and that worker will want to do his 8 hours quality work. That worker who came home and told his wife that the artificial salary was owned by a failed company, that worker has no dignity. That worker doesn't have a look forward, that worker only has a sense of shame and no free action will help him feel like a proud man. No, we don't need that. We don't need a society where parents are ashamed of their children and are ashamed to tell their children the truth, we don't need a society where kids are looking for a sponsor to pay for coffee or juice in a cafe and buy them a piece of clothing. We don't need a society where no one can admit how they live, and we don't need a society of people without dignity. We don't need, dear socialists, I'm talking to you, the kind of society you just left us. A society of people with empty pockets and a society of people whose heads are filled with promises you never made. We don't need a society where people will have pockets full of free action, not socialist gentlemen. Food will never be bought in this country with papers, free shares, or ID cards again. Food will only be bought in this country for money. It will be earned, there will be that money because our people are worthy and our people want to work, but there is nowhere to work. Work needs a goal, a motive is needed, and security is needed. To cut back and make it clear that someone would want to work and to meet their obligations, he needs a safe and decent salary. What kind of situation do we have today? If the job starts at half past eight, most people come to work at eight, people have no motive and they find it hard to face again the grief that awaits them at the firm. Then from 8 to 9 you drink coffee in most companies, but not because workers don't want to work, but because they have such leadership that gives them such an example and that taught them not to work, because if they don't, they won't even ask for their salary. We have executives who give them such an example. They have leadership, because it can't be called management, so they have management who drinks coffee and whiskey all day and instead of doing their duties, they finish their private jobs during their work day. Shame, dear socialists. So, by 9:00 a.m., you drink coffee, and then by 12 o'clock you do something small. From 12 to 14 hours most workers spend time waiting to leave work and thinking about what to tell their family when they come home empty-handed. And finally, at 14 o'clock most of them leave work and if the end of the day is at 15 o'clock in the afternoon, because since they haven't worked since 12 to 14, why should they stay until 15 o'clock? And so every day and so for all these years, socialist gentlemen. Why? In one sentence - because there is no motive, because there is no security, because there is no pay. That's why it's a law of privatisation, not a free share of action. That's why investments, socialists, because investments are an incentive, investments are motive, investments are safe and decent pay. And there will be wages in this land, and there will be investment, and not only for the people, and for those who voted for DOS, there will be for you and wages and investments, and therefore let us carry out the reforms for which we have fought so firmly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10277	Are you going first to the Rules of Procedure, or are you going to single out the real replicas, gentlemen of the Socialists? National MP Marko Culibrk, right on line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10278	It is good that the MPs of the DOS majority also started to talk, but it would be good if they read the first law they were talking about, but 42 discussed them, but other than the political hope and ideological criticism of the former system, they were unable to say anything else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10279	By the book, Mr. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10280	Rule 79, that would be according to the Rules of Procedure...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10281	What member, haven't I heard?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10282	Article 79. Since we've been told here that since the half-eight goes to work, and at eight comes, so it doesn't stay until three, then we could say, for pedagogical reasons, that we shouldn't let the children be in the assembly because the assembly starts at 10, many don't get any sleep, so they don't get any sleep, so we've never started since 10, and many don't stay here, so we don't have a quorum, and you're 176, so get yourself changed. Therefore, children should not be allowed into the congregation for pedagogical reasons, they are young and cannot endure so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10283	Mr. Guduric, you've actually abused the pay phone. You know for a fact that no member of 79 has been violated and that we respect the time prescribed for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10284	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a member of 79 has been violated who says the Assembly works from 10 to 19:30, with a break of one and a half hours. Our break today lasted two hours and 10 minutes and only after the end of the second hour, you have graciously welcomed the MPs to tell them why they should be late for the session of the National Assembly and so we have learned that the DSS MPs are analysing the press conference of their president and are asking for instructions whether they are allowed to go in with the rest of the DOS to continue the session of the National Assembly or not. I think the other MPs, the Washington-based DOS, as Kostunica and we Serbian radicals called them, don't deserve that kind of behavior, and we can't enslave the indetermination or lack of ideology of a part of the DOS parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10285	Right on the line.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10286	I have to say the DSS MPs were working on a break. The congregation works not only when it ambushes, but also when it doesn't ambush. You only work when TV cameras are on. We work when we have an important law on the agenda. It's true we stayed a little longer. That's why we apologize to all the other MPs, but we've been working and we've been discussing a very important topic, which is the law on privatisation. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10287	Thank you. We accept your apology. Now we can keep working. I give my word to the MP Ljubomir Kragovic, and after that, MP Jovan Todorovic. You'll get to the rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10288	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to expose my matter, I would like to address you and that you have unjustly given me a warning. In doing so, you have violated the Rules of Procedure and I am now telling you both the first and second reminders and I am taking away the word, at least in these next ten minutes, until I present what I have to say about the privatisation law. The draft law on the privatisation of Mr. Minister, here are the essential and key laws to go towards the market economy. [[Applause radically.]] The current model of conducting and agreed economies has proved to be unsuccessful and overcome. A model of ownership relations in Serbia's economy, due to an unknown who is the title holder, and who is the owner, has just led to conditions to be passed through the necessary privatisation law these days. Thus, the issue of the Serbian economy's titles would finally be resolved. The proposed Privatisation Act has its good and bad sides. It is good that privatisation is mandatory for all, what is armed and that after this privatisation of the economy in Serbia will be able to go through the market economy and economy, which is the only one relevant for the assessment of the success or failure of the economy of a country, including our countries of Serbia. The essence of this proposal for privatisation is to divide capital, sell capital, assets or parts of the company's assets. Believe it or not, part of the capital is intended for free division of employees and citizens. The proposal for this law introduces new institutions. There is a question of the necessity of forming these institutions, as their establishment and functioning requires huge financial resources. This bill gives him unlimited powers, as well as a guarantee for privatisation of the Minister of Economy and Privatisation, giving him almost the role of the "boss" in this privatisation process that awaits us after the adoption of this law. Why do I say "boss"? Because all the elements of the decision are to give to the competent ministry, i.e. to the competent minister. It is known that the privatisation process is a very complex business, a job that is being embodies with great opportunities for abuse, bribery, corruption, and the question is whether everything that carries the privatisation process itself can resist our minister. I doubt it. Time will show it best. The legislative proposal provides that the basic privatisation models have split capital and transferred capital without compensation, and the other methods of selling capital or property are a public tender and public auction. What's unknown is what companies are going to go to the sales model through a public tender, which is going to public auction. I think this bill should have defined it. In this proposal, the privatisation law, in addition to the sale of capital and the transfer of capital without compensation, lacks the recapitalisation model, sells the shares to raise the additional capital that could be applied to individual enterprises, which is most favourable to the company, to keep those assets in the company itself. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in this bill, we have one in a legal sense, an illogical and absurd member of the law who says that some of the funds achieved by sale will be allocated to the compensation of the nationalised property, i.e. for the restitution, that is this amount of five percent, and what is unknown is whether and when such a bill will be found in the assembly procedure and whether it will be adopted. This is a delegating approach to something that should be brought into this congregation. Furthermore, what is unknown is that there are no criteria on the basis of which the privatisation agency estimates that the privatisation entity must be restructured, as well as in which cases the Agency shall carry out restructuring, in which the competent authority of the privatisation entity should provide data in the restructuring process. Only creditors with majority government capital are given the opportunity to convert their financial claims or convert into the capital of the entity in which the restructuring is carried out. Then that capital is also sold on a tender or auction programme. So they're favored, the law doesn't apply to everything. What is illogical in this proposal for a privatisation law is that payment funds can also be bonds not paid out of foreign exchange savings, and they reach their conclusion on the day of sale of capital or property, and issued to natural persons who are citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Why old foreign currency savings are conditioned by limited maturity deadlines. I think this member of the law should be amended and removed or those conditions or deadlines should be eliminated, so that foreign savings can be involved as a means of payment in the privatisation process. What is missing from this privatisation law and what is not foreseen by law is that the purchase of companies is sanctioned with the aim of closing down the same companies. This is possible in practice, because various competitive companies will try to prevent competition from developing and thus buy and then close down a competing company. We are obliged to present the Prime Minister to this step, and the law does not provide for the abuse of this species to be prevented. Of course, if the prime minister honestly meant when he was talking about this problem, this proposal for a law on privatisation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the over-authorization of the Minister of Privatisation is seen as he educates the tender commission. And on the basis of which criteria he educates the commission and who are members of that commission. The question is, what is the role of the tender commission, if the privatisation agency proposes the results of the public tender to the commission. The process of selling capital or property through public auctions, also in general, without introducing any criteria for determining which companies will be privatised and through public auctions. There are no criteria on the basis of which the privatisation agency chooses members of the auction board. The question arises, that the law does not define whether one commission is formed for all sales through auction or tender or for each sale individually. All these unknowns which are not clearly defined by the draft law, which are pointed out by the MPs of the SRS today and in the further debate, will be removed. Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, one of the shortcomings in this proposal for a law on privatisation is the absolute absence of any social programme. The result of every privatisation, for example, has many from Eastern Europe, and this is also mass layoff of workers. Each government has to anticipate this problem and pre-warning everything it can bring and what the privatisation law will bring. The serious state must prepare and have serious social programmes and mechanisms, all in order to protect its citizens. It's not enough for the minister to promise that no one will stay on the street. A promise of crazy joy. Such statements must support good social programmes, as otherwise what will be very unfavourable for the minister and for the very government of the Republic of Serbia will happen. The next lack of the Privatisation Law proposal is the lack of an economic programme, i.e. the environmental protection programme, which had to find a place in this bill. In addition to the Privatisation Law proposal, the package also provides proposals for a law on the privatisation agency, as well as on the action fund. The question arises, how can an institution initiate, implement, control the privatisation process at the same time. The question arises as to the justification of setting up a special privatisation agency, and given the existence of the Ministry of Privatisation and the limited budget of the Republic of Serbia. The question arises, why is a special agency established as a state institution, if it is based on donations, contributions and sponsorship of domestic and foreign, legal and natural persons for the establishment and operation of the agency. It is known that one who invests in funds expects the funds to be returned to him. If donors provide funds, the agency as a state institution will protect the interests of the state in the privatisation process. The lack of this agency is the public's work, the control of an agency that has not been defined. I think the goal of establishing such an agency is not to protect the interests of the state, but to take full control of the privatisation process in the Republic of Serbia, in which foreign sponsors and donors, who are primarily interested in buying our businesses at very low prices, will play a crucial role. Mr. Minister, you said - this government will not stimulate and lend small and medium-sized enterprises according to party membership. However, these words of yours have no basis, because it denies how you can explain when you credited the Deputy Prime Minister to Lutra's company, which has no production process at all, but is one service firm. (President: Time. In the end, I would like to ask you how will you apply this law on privatisation in the area of Kosovo and Metohija? What about the fate of 50,000 Serbs employed in the economy of Kosovo and Metohija, and how they will find their place in this privatisation law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10289	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic. The next is the People's Messenger, Bogoljub Zečević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10290	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. Vlahovic, is probably before us one of the most important laws to be passed under this authority, but also independent of who the government is. So today we are talking about the law on privatisation, the law on the privatisation agency and the law on the action fund. It is absolutely certain that privatisation is one of the most important issues, I would say predominantly politically, then legally, economically and socially. There is no doubt that political consent has been reached, no matter where any MP is in this House, that it should go to privatisation. There are no disputes here. We're probably just arguing about how and in what time and means privatisation should be carried out. When it comes to law, here today and in previous days, much has been said -- that the proposed law on privatisation is not in accordance with the Constitution, is not in accordance with some provisions under the Company Act as well as with some other federal and republican laws. But DOS's majority of these objections don't accept. I'm going to say that, so I'm not going to bother to prove to you how contrary that law is to any other regulations. However, when it comes to the economic and social aspects of this law, I want to say a few sentences that probably DOS will not like. But I understand that the parliamentary democracy of such a type is that we can speak what we think and argue, and that at the same time we have a man in the image who will hear these objections and perhaps one of them accepts it as rational and respectable. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I want to make a few views about the basic concept of law. The law stipulates that privatisation is carried out only in two ways for the next four years, i.e. on the basis of two models: the sale of capital and the transfer of shares without compensation. Maybe those two things wouldn't be controversial if I didn't think it was rational to include a third model of privatisation at this point, which is capitalization. I see that some fellow MPs are waving their hands that this is not true, and I am asking everything here what is the problem if, at this point in time, a company that is in difficulty, and finally, it does not have to be in difficulty, we bring in additional capital from a foreign natural or legal person, from a domestic natural or legal person, so to some extent change the structure, but we allow this company to find itself in a position to significantly increase the price of its remaining actions that will be sold under this law? The recapitalisation can be spoken of in different ways. Of course, there are two concepts. One is the concept that applied in time by Ante Markovic, and he meant that for the amount of additional capital invested in enterprises, in a way, the amount of social property would be annulled and thus, at the time 100% of the capital would be entered in relation to the existing value of the company, then de facto privatisation in these companies would be carried out. I have submitted several amendments on this subject, and when there is an opportunity to talk about it, I will probably be able to make more concrete arguments about my opinion that the recapitalisation model should be included. Secondly, what would I like to ask the DOS majority in the form of questions here, but first of all to the Government, as a proposer, or Mr. Vlahovic -- why exactly 70% of the capital is being sold? Why isn't that, say, 51%.55%, 60%, why isn't 65%, which is 70%? Gentlemen, this seems like a formal question to you, but look at the other provisions of the law, then you can see that even this 30% of the capital, which is intended to be distributed to workers and citizens free of charge or excise duty, is not guaranteed. On the other hand, we have a mandatory sale of capital up to 70% of the value. If what would change the essence of this law if we had this law to sell 51% of the capital? So whoever buys 51% of the capital or, based on capitalisation, becomes the owner of that proportional part of capital, would essentially have an action control package and could manage the company without any difficulty. If it were to be a good host, as is said today, that remaining part of social capital would certainly in some time significantly raise its price on the paper market, or on the stock market. Precise privatisation, a four-year period, and bringing out everything we have for sale at one point on the market, you know yourself that it can significantly knock down the price of these actions. It is also clear to those who did not go to high school, and it was enough for just a few days to listen to this debate in parliament. Quick privatisation for me and is not disputed unless there are criminal provisions concerning employees in enterprises not privatised during less than 18 months. You know, ma'am, it's really punishment for those employees who work in companies without those companies privatizing themselves for less than 18 months. Because only in the event that privatisation is made during 18 months, workers in these companies belong to shares worth 30% of the capital sold through auctions. In which it is the fault of employees of these companies if the agency, the action fund and all other bodies not in the company have not carried out the business of selling enterprises. Then you say, if it's over 18 months and goes up to 30 months, employees only have the right to 20% of the stock. And if that 30-month deadline goes too far, then they have the right to 10% share. Who can answer that question without being a resilient approach. Why are workers to blame if the agency formed by this law, action fund, government and other entities do not do their job in the sale of capital? Ladies and gentlemen, you are calling for reasons for the experience of the laws of Slovenia, Poland and Hungary. According to my knowledge, and you deny me if that is not true, even the Slovenians predicted the right to prevent purchases by employees in these companies. According to my knowledge, 20% of the capital that is privatised, let Minister Vlahovic deny me if it is not true, the Slovenians gave right to their employees and in the second round, they can sell shares under more favourable conditions, with the right to intercept the purchase, buy up to 20% of the capital. (Milka Marinkovic: It is not true. Mrs. Milka, it really is. I'm not talking about what I don't know. You go out for the pay phone, and you deny me. You don't need to take my time. (President: I ask the People's Messengers not to earn. Finally, my questions are answered by the minister. I just want to ask Mr. Minister or Proposer, what's the problem? You know, it's half the answer. [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] Yes, it is. And when you ask a smart question, you can expect an answer like that. Right? Now, I'm asking you, colleague -- why do you support the provision of a law that says that in those companies where 50% of actions are not sold, workers have no right to any action? Why? Please, gentlemen, if anyone wants to see this thing rationally, it could have been sold 49%. If a 30% share of shares is given a total of 79%, what is the problem. Is he in charge? We still have 21% of the capital with a government or social sign, which will be sold at a later stage. Finally, you probably haven't read the law, that the action fund has no obligation to sell the stock for six years. And that when it's complete nonsense, he collects dividends based on actions he hasn't invested in. Or, in enterprises that are restructured, workers have no right to any single action. Please, companies like my password "Viscosis", which will be restructured, I hope, that the law meant companies of the type "Viscosis", the type of "Stat" and many other companies that have been on the list of 75 companies that are transformed according to a special programme, that through restructuring they will come to healthy feet and that such companies will be able to privatise themselves. But whether privatization, or restructuring of such enterprises, or rather Serbian-speaking -- healing, can be performed without employees in these companies. Finally, when that happens, gentlemen, after four years, a restructured company cares about healthy legs, you've made peace with trustees, and only employees in these companies have no rights and have no single action. (President: Time. What's the problem? Finally, I want to express my disagreement with another provision of the law. I think it is in Article 60, which says that the privatisation funds will be settled, i.e. to compensate those persons, legal or physical, of which nationalisation has taken away property, or that the obligations for which the state of Serbia, i.e. the Republic of Serbia, are guaranteed. Why don't I agree? Not because these people don't need to be compensated, but because, ladies and gentlemen, I see a much more generous source for that purpose. And that is, this DOS government must finally have the courage, the morals, and everyone else, to address... (President: 12 minutes. ..... The West is also seeking war reparations for the NATO bombing done. And according to your modest estimates, $32 billion is a pity, and the nationalised property or liabilities of the Republic of Serbia are certainly not nearly that big. Soak up your courage, squeeze the loop, ask NATO bombers to pay us $32 billion worth of damage, not make the funds that come out of privatisation make up your commitments. Finally, seeing as the time has elapsed, I want to thank Mrs. Chairman Natashi Micic, who promised me that I would arrive in time for the rally. I urge both her and all of you, all Serbian citizens, to come to the Republic Square at 18 hours and support the Socialist Party of Serbia in demands that no Serb should be delivered to The Hague. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10291	I give my word to the Minister for Economy and Privatisation, Mr. Aleksandr Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10292	Ladies and gentlemen, the Honorable Madam Chairman, the working presidency, the honourable MPs, capitalization is simply not a method of privatisation. It's a very good thing for the company. But there are so many good things in economic life that simply weren't the subject of this law, and with that, we couldn't even put recapitalisation as a special model of privatisation. The recapitalisation is the addition of capital to existing social capital or state capital, and since this law is subject to privatisation of state and social capital, recapitalisation is not a method. But essential investment in the company is the goal of this law of privatisation. A fellow MP well noted that all previous laws contained a method or model of recapitalisation as one of the potential models. But I'm sorry he didn't quantify the effect of those recapitalisation models at the same time. And to tell me here which firm, besides "Technoza", no other, had a capitalization as a dominant model of privatisation even though it was... (Glasses - "Gallenika. "Galenica"? That's not an example, believe me. You know very well how you did in 1990. ... The previous recapitalisation even offered a discount on existing social capital. So, gentlemen, recapitalisation is simply not a privatisation model and cannot be included as such in privatisation models, and capitalisation through a special model cannot essentially be achieved. Investments only come when you know who owns it, through tender or auction privatisation, as we suggested in the sales model. It is not the price of actions to be taken out of the action fund, because this is not the market, so if there are 15 kg of tomatoes more and the demand is lower, the stock will be shot down, the value of the action depends not on how much you offer on the market, but depends on the business and financial performance of the privatisation entity. Therefore, it is simply not true and it is simply a problem of lack of information. The right to prevent buying is an institution that prevents the development of financial markets. The right to prevent buying is an out-of-date institution and can only refer to closed companies, which are not created as a result of broadcasting actions from privatisation, and therefore the right to prevent buying cannot be good if we want to have the development of financial markets. Why is there no free distribution unless more than 49% of shares are sold? For the simple reason why in that variant, we assume, there are fixed offers that would come from within, from companies, which would buy 30% of the capital well and with 30% of the free capital have a majority. That's not our goal. Our goal is to get the right owners behind it, if they believe in the company, if they believe in the company's profit potential, to buy 70% of the capital and become majority owners and invest in the company. The action fund, I remind you, was created as a result of the application of the previous law on its own transformation. So, why the action fund and why the six-year deadline for selling shares? For the simple reason that in the second round of privatisation, shares were broadcast with a six-year payment deadline. And there's always a variant to give up paying off those actions that, according to the previous legal provision, automatically fall into the action fund. Therefore, the minimum life of the action fund must be six years, what is the period of payment of shares from the second round, in line with the previous privatisation law. Restructure, why workers don't get free shares after the restructuring process. For the simple reason that there is no capital restructuring process. Where property is less than the total level of liability, there's no capital. The capital is always equal to property minus obligation. If the property was a minus liability, it would not be necessary to enter into restructuring. It would not be necessary for the state to take on debts on its back and, later, by conversion, to enter into financial consolidation. There's no capital here, and that's why we have nothing to share. Where there is no need for restructuring, there will be customers, there will be attractiveness and there will be action to divide employees. As for the conflict of laws with the Constitution, one, the other, with federal law, I repeated twice yesterday that this law does not come into conflict with any of its provisions with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, or the Constitution of Yugoslavia. Of course, there is a discrepancy between the privatisation law and the company law, but I will tell you again -- the privatisation law regulates the area that is, among other things, delegated to the Republic. Since it's about the back of a specialis business that this law has to do, we can always apply a known rule, which I won't repeat at this moment. Since it's not my custom to say no, this law is in conflict with the Constitution, so what's wrong, because the Socialists and the previous government have been in conflict with the Constitution many times, and then, of course, they didn't mind. Of course, it wasn't the idea of leadership when this law was written, and we respected the existing provisions in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and in the Constitution of Yugoslavia, but it wasn't mentioned so much as a violation of the Constitution in the economic area, which you, among other things, had for your term of office. This many-named federal law on the foundations of social property conversion was in conflict with the Law on its own transformation, which you brought into this assembly in 1997. When it was in '92. Statehood, i.e. nationalisation of large public enterprises, was not at the time bothered by the arguments that you point out today, which is that social property is uncut and cannot be changed into other forms of property, in particular it has been changed to a state form of property. I don't want to say this - whether it was justified or unwarranted to do something like that, but I just want to remind you that the same arguments that you're working on today's payphone today, these same arguments, among other things, were supposed to serve you the moment you made the nationalisation of the greatest part of public enterprises in 1992 and, in the end, when many of the provisions were contrary to federal laws. And finally, once again on all of these rights, which we allegedly are abolishing, without those quotes, verbally, supposedly we are abolishing, which were spiritually existing in the previous period -- the right to free division of action. I would pray, if possible, for you to tell me, or bring here, at least two, not more than five people, the owner of the action, who, because the owners of the action had dividends of at least 10% of the nominal value of the actions they held in their hands. If we're talking about abolishing the rights of peasants, farmers, bring here, here, this public listens, let at least two come forward, and at most five farmers, who had a dividend of 10% per year, of the nominal amount, of the one who writes on the action, let's see what the rights are and what benefits they've gained through the free division of action. Instead, we had traffic of these same actions, with discounts of over 90%. And the fact that the previous law, with its revenues, which were directed into the labour market, into the fund for development, in the pension fund, strongly supported the institutions, which one of the MPs said yesterday, here, I have the figures here, how much the labour market for four years has benefited from the effects of this previous Law on its own transformation, in total for four years at the Republic Labour Market Office, has entered 1,300,000 German marks. There, that's the effect of privatisation. I'm just going to remind you -- this government has distributed two million marks for the development of small and medium-sized enterprises in a month and a half in the woodland area, and you've earned 1,300,000 marks for the labour market in four years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10293	Thank you. There's a word Mr. Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10294	I would like to advertise a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 88(2). - Let me quote Article 95 of Section 2 first, and then I'll start to have time to explain. According to Article 88, the proposed representative, or the authorised representative of the act, has the right to speak three times as much as the time specified for MPs in the first address and final word. During the search of the proposal, the motionary has the right to once again receive a word, to give an explanation, for the duration set for the presentation of the MPs. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the debate on the bill is not a judicial debate, and it does not run, as a rule -- the word of one MP, the word of a minister, the word of another MP, the word of a minister. The right to tell you, regardless of my humble parliamentary opinion, which was created on the values of today's minister, I must say that the poor minister who can't in time go seven times as long as time for the MP to explain the law. I think it's the minister's right and duty to write down remarks, to reject some of them, to concentrate on some, to have an opening statement to explain the bill to us, to come out more than ten times yesterday in the context of one of the rights he had during the debate, and he'll have the right to another half hour at the end, to bring down this debate in principle. I think that's enough. This is because we couldn't focus here either, on the minister and his behaviour under the previous law, and whenever he remembers something that didn't work out under the previous law, he comes out, so here he reads to the other MPs. I'm not asking the minister who participated in making this poor proposal for a privatisation law, I'm not asking him if there is a dividend, Hadzhi Dragan Antic, who, along with your suggestions, privatised "Politics". That's not what I'm asking, I'm not even asking if it's possible that under the new Privatisation Act, a goat will guard the cabbage.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10295	Do you, Mr. Nikolic, now violate the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10296	Why do you ask me that, I'll always say no.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10297	Mr. Nikolic, I am obliged to answer you now that you have made an objection to my violation of the Rules of Procedure. Well, you didn't get right to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10298	Have patience, explain the breach of the Rules of Procedure. First you hurt the Rules of Procedure, and then the minister, when you give him your word, speaks of something that is not a subject. Well, when we talk about something that's not a topic, it was attended by the minister today. What -- spring skin change, horning, and now, as the Democratic Party changes its view of privatisation, so all the people, who had one attitude, change their attitude by night and immediately explain the other to us, and the previous attack. We don't need that. We need people who have an idea, who will defend the idea, not defend the warrant -- what a new idea should look like, so I ask you, so that you do not drive us out of the room, to be patient and you, and the minister, when the MPs finish the debate in principle, the minister will get the word, to explain the answers to the remarks of the MPs, for which he believes he should answer.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10299	Mr. Nikolic, I don't know if you were in the O.R. yesterday, but it probably was one of your colleagues, I was giving a word to Mr. Minister when he had the right to reply, based on article 81 that I'm not reading to you right now, but that the Rules of Procedure applies equally to all participants. However, your colleague Natasa Jovanovic has asked me to apply Article 88 and I am now applying it. In addition to this attitude that you have advertised, there is an attitude 6, which says, "The other members of the Government are given the floor by the President of the National Assembly when asked for it, and their presentation may take twice as long as the time set for the presentation of the MPs." Mr. Vlahovic is also a representative of the government. You have no right to injure the Rules of Procedure. Are you happy or should I put you to the vote? Do you want me to put your advertising breach to the Rules of Procedure for the vote? All you can say is that. (Tomislav Nikolic: You have injured the Rules of Procedure. ) You are hurting the Rules of Procedure because you need to make a statement whether you want me to put it to the vote or not? You won't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10300	Now, according to article 6, 88. How can you not tell the MPs and the public that attitude 6 applies to the other members of the government? The full article of 88 speaks of participants at the session, so it sets out the representatives of the proposings, the heads of the parliamentary groups, the members of the committee who have singled out the opinion, the MPs, and then the Prime Minister, if he is not a representative of the proposings, then the other members of the government. You can't even talk about Minister Vlahovic as other members of the government right now. He is a representative of the promoter and is covered by the provisions of Article 2 and the other members of the Government are covered by the provisions of Article 5, which you always misread. The other members of the government have the right only to receive a word once in a time specified for the presentation of MPs, twice as long, but they can get a word whenever they ask for it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10301	I've already answered this question. We will apply Article 88(6) by giving the Minister a word as a representative of the Government, because the other members of the Government's position in Section 6 reads, that I am not now linguistically interpreting the Rules of Procedure, we are going to continue to work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10302	It is obvious that the minister also realized that we were right, only the chairman did not realize that we were really telling the truth and that he was correct in the Rules of Procedure. I'll tell you which member, because I read the Rules of Procedure, unlike those of you who don't read. It is a member of 88th and is precisely specified which rights and opportunities of the proposing representatives, and others include those who are not representatives. I'm a lawyer, Mrs. Micic, and I don't know who, who you've already attacked for such a thing and you can't explain this to anyone alive. Don't show your double standards, your double arches, when it's completely unnecessary. There's no one from DOS who's going to read this and who's going to tell you you're right. The minister won't tell you that, unless you say so, we put it to a vote, so press whatever you want. I ask you to really respect the Rules of Procedure as a sublegal legal act, to respect both the MPs and to respect the right, what is most important, because we may like it or not like what we're talking about or what some would like to talk about, but right, what's above us, like it or not, we have to respect it. Dura backside saddle, please respect the Rules of Procedure and let us do the most normal work.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10303	Mr. Wolf, I'm trying very hard to respect the Rules of Procedure, and I've already answered. Thank your colleague Natasha Jovanovic. Yesterday, I gave the minister no word under Article 88(6), but I gave the right to a replica, because I believe that a minister like all the other participants has the right to reply. However, Natasha advertised, and then I said that we would apply Article 88(6), and so can he, because the minister is indeed also a representative of the government. The word is Mr. Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10304	I'm advertising a breach in article 95. Rules of Procedure on the work of the Assembly of Position 2. Madam Chairman, according to this article, when an MP advertises a breach of the Rules of Procedure in the 2nd position, it is clearly said that the MP is obliged to specify which provisions of the Rules of Procedure have been violated, to quote and explain. Tomislav Nikolic, as president of the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group, has been coming out for the speaker for the second or third time, warns you that you are violating the Rules of Procedure. You keep interrupting and violating Article 95. Secondly, your interpretation, Madam Chairman, that the minister may be in line, has been regulated by this very rules of procedure. The replica is given to someone whose exposure has been incorrectly interpreted, which in several cases was not a question, but rather a question of the minister, issues related to the bill. Secondly, if something is mentioned regarding the minister himself, as far as I know, and many of the witnesses are in this assembly, it is rare that an MP spoke something that personally refers to the minister. If you are treating under Rule 81, then you do not have a foothold in this Rules of Procedure and you must invent some member of the Rules of Procedure. It is a little strange, Madam Chairman, that you warn Tomislav Nikolic and the members of the SRS when they make their remarks, and it is not strange when the minister shows, in addition to his presentation, some gestures such as provocations towards, I suppose, the female part of the parliamentary group, whether Serbian Radical Party or someone on this right. You must have the same arches and, therefore, you must respect this Rules of Procedure if you want to work on it. Don't give the Minister any more words when he wants it than under Article 88, not Article 6, but the attitude that regulates the legislator.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10305	Let's move on, there's no breach of the Rules of Procedure. What you said about the signs of the quote was used by your colleague Bozidar Vucurovic this morning in the afternoon's debate. It's probably about him, what you said. The word of the Messenger of the people is Bogoljub Zečević, and the next is the Messenger of the people Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10306	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, the law on privatisation is, in my opinion, the most important law to pass this assembly of the Serbian Parliament. The key to changing the system from socialism, if what has been happening in the last 10 years can be called any system, to the countries of the market economy is privatisation. This is a very complicated process. It was easy to confiscate private property, completely dismember previous owners, some put in jail, and some physically liquidate. Now state and social property needs to be transformed into private property and be fair to both former owners and employees and to the citizens of our country, while ensuring economic progress. In principle, I agree with the bill, but I have a few positive things to make and a few remarks and a proposal, so I'm going to make them this time. The first good and key thing is that the price is not a decisive factor in the sale of enterprises, but is investment and the social programme. This is in line with the declared DOS and the Democratic Party policy, that the meaning of the new law is not only a change in owners, but an investment in the economy, which will bring a higher standard and a better life for all citizens of our country. The second refers to nationalized assets. It is good that the privatisation is exempt from the nationalised property that has remained unchanged, while the property that no longer exists will be compensated to previous owners in money. True, this does not say anything about previous property in this law, but the government has made a public promise to implement it in another law. There are many locals, apartments, buildings, which are now owned by social enterprises and which as such can return to previous owners. Vomiting is important for the following reasons. First, these are usually facilities in the best locations, which can bring good profits to owners. Secondly, there are emotional reasons why heirs want these very objects instead of any compensation in money. Thirdly, we will attempt to bring back those families who are unjustly, by the will of the communist authorities, from it. My suggestions on the bill are as follows: the main objections to this law are the strong powers of government, resolution ministries and privatisation agencies, while the control of the Assembly, or elected representatives of the people, could be more significant. I think it is necessary to change this relationship to make law enforcement more public and more controlled, which is in the general interest of our society. Furthermore, the government, failing to accept amendments to the Vojvodina Assembly, which stipulates that all municipalities according to the privatisation entity's seat receive 5% of the privatisation money, and the territorial autonomy units by 5%, lead to an unequal position and municipalities in central Serbia. In fact, municipalities in Vojvodina will have an average of 10% of the capital from privatisation on their own, while municipalities in central Serbia will have only 5% of the capital available, and I believe that the central Serbia area should be leveled with the Vojvodina area. The third objection to this law is that it is also necessary to strengthen the role of local self-government authorities in the privatisation process. This refers to the privatisation of public utility companies, as local self-government is responsible for the functioning of municipal services in municipalities and cities. In addition to setting aside good things and objections to this law, I have a concrete proposal for the Serbian government. Given that the season of annual holidays begins these days and that a large number of our people living in Western countries will first come after all, I think it is necessary to hold a meeting with them in order to get acquainted with the law on privatisation, with the possibilities of investment in our country and in general with the intentions of new authorities. In addition to economic motives, which must always be in the first place, I think they have other motives to invest their capital right in Serbia. DOS MPs have submitted a lot of amendments to the bill, and some of them have been accepted by the government. I believe that once again, the unaccepted amendments to DOS MPs have to be looked at because they are all well-intentioned and in the function of passing quality law. In addition, government officials have repeatedly reiterated that the government is not the smartest and that together, as a Parliament and as a government, we are passing a good law that should satisfy the citizens of our country, as something our people expected and what they deserved. I believe that we will pass and implement a quality law and that Serbia will be an example of successfully implemented privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10307	Thank you, Mr. Rabbit. Please allow me only to very briefly support the reasons for the violation of Rule 88 Rules of Procedure, just before I left out to make one parallel, to show you that the minister has the right both as a representative of the Government and as a proponent of the act. When we conduct a discussion in particular, let's say the head of your parliamentary group, Mr. Seselj may appear in dual function, as the applicant of the amendment and as representative of the parliamentary group. The word has a People's MP Branislav Blazic, and the next is MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, enough has already been said in this debate about the privatisation law, and it is difficult now to do something new, not repeatingly, put forward. I think one good part of the dilemma has already been removed. It's likely something will be removed through the amendments, and I'm going to try to maybe touch something that hasn't been mentioned so far, it hasn't been given an accent so much on these subjects. This primarily refers to the protection of the environment and something such a law has already shown in some experiences in other countries, and above all in our environment. The fact is, many have already said that it is really one of the most important laws that has been passed in such congregations, a law that comes into order after decades, in some way, testing, possibilities and what all kinds of assets can bring, and above all social assets that have proved to be extremely inefficient, inert, destimulating, incompetent, assets that are ultimately not anyone's and everyone's, and what has led to today in this situation where the economy is today. So by rejecting such a concept that has proved extremely incompetent, we come to a situation that we have before us a law on privatisation, which is primarily good at denying this kind of property, which is armed and is fundamental to its and its main characteristics, the highest quality, which is to sell and receive new funds, fresh money for investment and for the movement of such a dormant economy. What we're going to have as a problem and what may not be mentioned here is that it's a psychological moment, a moment that our people are not yet well prepared for the answers that bring raw privatisation, the harsh relationships that will rule in the process. One generation or two generations of what it takes to give, then overcome these psychological barriers, so that we can respond to all the harsh demands of privatisation itself. When I was talking about environmental protection, I have to call on Article 38, in which it can present itself as a major problem, because it writes a public call from Article 1 of this article, that participation in a public auction may contain an obligation to invest funds in a privatisation entity, to address staff issues, to provide business continuity and environmental protection. So it can contain, but it doesn't have to contain. That's extremely important, that one word can bring a lot of things in some future time, either good or evil to these places of ours. I will be free to compare how it happened in Romania, through the privatisation of the Aurol firm, it is a gold mine, where the Australian firm Marisol bought and since they had no built-in environmental protection, there have been tons and tons of cyanide in Tis, that there has been live poisoning in Tisa, both in Hungary and Serbia. Therefore, we must be aware that the Western investor will try in all ways to avoid those obligations he has in his countries, and in his countries above all has an obligation to pay a pollution tax which, depending on the emissions, increases or reduces or returns the price of the product placed on the market. So if they realize that the price on the West market will be cheaper, by producing here, then we can expect that our space will be well polluted by their interest, polluted by wanting to save for all this money and leaving us polluted water, air and land. What's very important, and what could possibly be corrected in this law is that in smaller companies, the local environment needs to get a certain percentage of privatisation. Otherwise, if decentralisation is already being advocated, and nothing seems to be about leaving the percentage of the company sold to municipalities, then it is not even the interest of these municipalities to participate in the whole process. And perhaps the third and most important, which may have been considered and should be different in that, is a realistic observation of what will be sold now in Serbia, immediately at the first moment. It's something that can be very dangerous and I think we could approach this problem selectively, that one part of these large systems should have been laid out and preserved by law for some future generations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10309	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Branko Pavlovic, and next reported is MP Dejan Mihajlov. The violation of the Rules of Procedure, Stevan G. Guduric, who knows which time today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10310	Three members of the Rules of Procedure, 80, 113 and 114 have been injured. Since one good part of the DOS MPs has already gone to this rally at 1800 hours, it is your turn to allow others to join them there. Well, the rest of you would like to join, since the good part of your colleagues has already left. So, members of 113, 114, there are more cards than MPs, in Article 80, says the quorum needs to be determined.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10311	Mr. Guduric suggested that we determine the quorum. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. (Stevan Guduric, from the post: The Rules of Procedure first, has more cards than MPs in the Assembly. [[Applause]] I put your proposal to a vote. You'll get it when the speaker's finished, I can't return it, I won't give you my word. The word has a folk MP (Stevan Ž. Gudurić: First, I guess it is the Rules of Procedure. I'm the same speaker, you know, when I'm done, I'm a word and I'm holding my word, then you've only got one, and that's Article 95(1). Please, let's not waste any time. Here you go. Since Mr. Guduric has advertised a violation of article 113, please provide me with a computer insight into the electronic vote. I give my word to MP Branko Palovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10312	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, the privatisation law has its good and bad sides. What was interesting to me in these previous days of debate in principle was that the representatives of the opposition were attacking the law, pointing out some of its shortcomings, allegedly protecting mainly the employment, and those attacks that were coming were mostly the good parts of the law. I'll explain that later. I think there's been a huge lack of this law that we're also going to talk about, which is going to be a newspaper in our debate so far. Before we move on to that analysis, I would just like to set two terms, to determine between us, and one was privatization in a narrow sense, and that is this bill that we have today on the agenda. So, change of titleholders of property and privatisation in a broader sense. That's when Mr. Minister talks about investment, when we talk about economic development and social security. It's actually a sign of a broader concept of privatisation. Now, in that definition of a broader concept of privatisation, I think that we need to be more precise than an advocate for economic development and social security, because any government would advocate it. Therefore, the concept of privatisation in a broader sense implies such macro-economic measures as to affect the rational behaviour of each economic operator. In other words, you punish all those who don't behave on a racinal basis. These are primarily measures of the dominant roles of direct taxes, these are measures of the dinar course, these are measures of exports and imports. One of these measures is the change of titles of property. So when we have this broader concept of privatisation, which has a consequence of economic development, then we have this one measure of change in the titleholders of property that we are talking about today. One more thing to say about denationalization. I don't want to talk about it any more seriously. We'll have a chance to discuss it much more closely when it's on the agenda. There's only so much here that there's no causal link between denationalization and increasing efficiency of the economy. You don't have a causal relationship, and the second thing we'll do is we'll talk about it in more detail. What's going on here? It is being attacked under this concept of the Privatisation Law, which abolishes social property within four years and significantly reduces influence, not influence, but the ownership structure decreases significantly in state property. I think it's a distinct advantage of this law. It's a determined elimination of social property. It's actually one of the best parts of this bill. We have often heard here that companies will be sold at some price that is not the real value of these companies. I have to say, it's one fundamental misunderstanding of the market at all. There is nothing that would be a real value beyond market value. Giving up this bill of law on any binding valuation of the value of capital is actually a very high value of this law. This is precisely good in this law, which is defined as selling companies only at market value, because there is no other real criterion, and on which anything can be done seriously. There's been a lot of complaints about firing, about workers' rights, about some kind of social threat. Most of the time, there was a lot of criticism on that line. I think that the commitment to something that will make more investment possible, and definitely this legislative proposal can make more investment possible, is an advantage and is an opportunity for employment. So we've got one psychological barrier to break through. When we say that the company can operate on market conditions so many and so many workers, we've kept those jobs. This way through socialization through employment, we would lead to all of them staying on the street and all of them being literally officially unemployed. So it's a rather difficult psychological situation, but I think this bill is also on the right track. There were words here and that's what Mr. Minister said, and I think in that part he's absolutely right, it's not against this privatisation law with the recapitalisation. That's two things that connect. This bill just allows for greater recapitalisation. Why? You sell the company, that money goes to the state. Then the one who bought the company has a further interest, having already invested significant resources, to further invest in these companies to enable it, develop and do whatever else it needs on the market. So these two things are compatible, they're not conflicted with each other. What is wrong with this law is primarily concentrated in that part of Chapter II when it comes to preparation for privatisation, and it refers to restructuring. A concept has been established that dramatically violates the principles of the market economy. So for me, the problem of this law is not in the surplus market, but in the lack of market. What's restructuring -- when a company can't find a buyer on the market. So, not only in those cases that Mr. Minister stated, when corporate obligations are greater than his assets. Of course, in that case certainly, but in all other cases, where a company cannot find a buyer on the market, restructuring is applied. The key drawback is that the state, through the agency, or some para-state bodies, appears as a body that will in fact be binding, a directive, for every particular company, say what it needs to do now in order to address its shortcomings. This concept that some group of people, whether in one office in Belgrade, in five offices or brought down to the level of local self-government, but that the state structure can solve the specific problems of every company, is state-run planning capitalism and it cannot produce good results, even assuming that it is the smartest people at all. So, conceptually, what the agency can address directly to companies and bindingly tells them what they should do, so much destimulate the very employees of companies and the management of these companies, that virtually everything falls on the burden of the state. In principle, this concept cannot produce good results. If that were possible, then the Soviet Union would never fall apart. If that were possible, then they'd really be past America. So, conceptually, it's a very big problem. When you look at another member talking about restructuring, you'll see, and that's already indicated, one provision that says that the moment the agency makes a solution to the start of restructuring, all other creditors can no longer be forced to charge. It's a dramatic influence in market flows. So, if I am at this point in loss, if I have obligations, all I have to do is urgently work with the agency to make a decision to go into the restructuring program. That moment, my account was unblocked. There's no charge for me right now. Further distortion of the market concept is that the state, when in such a way, radically, assumes the obligation to restructure a company, then, wants to recognise it or not, starts to move the overall market conditions in order to restructure the company and further influence market mechanisms, which would have to force all businesses to behave rationally. I think the concept of restructuring, which was proposed in this law, which no one has pointed to so far, at least I wasn't in the O.R. back then, and I was very careful to listen, is very problematic. I don't think with the best of intentions, he can give good solutions. What's pointed out, what I think is perfectly okay- selling a majority package of actions by the state is a better solution than insider privatisation by dividing up to 60% of workers. Why is she better? It's not better because, as Mr. Minister here said, which would then be shared losses. There are losses, so there are, whether they are distributed to workers or done by the state. The problem is, indeed, that a foreign partner will negotiate more easily, faster and better with a single entity such as the state, than with a large amount of workers who are dispersed. That's the advantage, not that we'd share our losses. The losses are then on the burden of the seller, which in this case is the state. But it is an advantage and it is a better side. I think restructuring should be considered before we finally pass this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10313	The word has the People's MP Dejan Mihajlov, and after that, MP Tomic S. Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10314	Dear Chairman, ladies and gentlemen, we have been hearing stories about the privatisation law these days, whether the concept is good or bad, whether or not there are social programs, whether there is or is no denationalisation and other things that we have mentioned. What no one has questioned in this congregation is one thing that makes us particularly happy and what is the matter about which the consensus has been reached, and that is that we need privatisation. We need privatisation because our economy has collapsed, because it has been brought into collapse by unprofessional, and I can freely say by intentional mismanagement all these years. We at the DSS believe that this law is acceptable, with some amendments that will change some views in some ways and make this law better for the citizens of Serbia. I am not going to deal with the explanation of all the things that have been the subject and the subject of a day-long debate in this assembly, but I am going to stick to the four attitudes that are a little bit mentioned, which I think are very important. It is that the natural wealth of Serbia must not at any cost be subject to privatisation, mining wealth, forests and anything else regulated by this law. It is necessary to count precisely in one legal project and to count the rules governing it and not allow the distribution of natural resources, as it has been in some other countries in our environment or in other countries that have been in transition in the last 10 years. We believe that such privatisation, which has been conducted in some countries, which we need in this country to prevent, is extremely irresponsible. We, as the DSS, will advocate that natural resources, which are the property of all citizens of this country and all the next generation, must not be sold under this law. As I see it, it is envisaged, only that provision needs to be made a little more precise and thus be ensured for future time, that it does not fall under some extensive interpretation, which was in some other cases, to become the subject of this law. Another thing that is also important, which is that the obligation to tax extra profits once, under the law that we passed at this session, must be fulfilled if a person wants to be a subject in the privatisation process. Not a person who will arrive and be a taxpayer under the Law on Extra Profit, can be a subject in privatisation and cannot buy our businesses until he has fulfilled his obligations under that law. We believe, if we have already passed the law, that we have to respect it and that not some natural or legal person who, under favourable conditions, has certain loans from the primary emissions, acquired some capital, rotated that capital all these years, to buy some company and then from the production of that company that she bought in the privatisation process, to pay off her debt to the state under the Extra Profit Act. We believe that this amendment should be incorporated into this law, because in this way it was what we adopted as the last item of the agenda, there was justice, what I was talking about back then. I also believe that this way we would be able to protect our private businesses, to protect them from that private capital that was thus acquired. The third thing -- I come from Pancheva, a city that is quite chemically poisoned and, I can say freely that it is a black spot on Serbia's map, that it is the most poisoned and polluted city in Serbia. This law does not mention much and does not provide much of those cities where the privatisation of large complexes will take place. One of these complexes is a petrochemical complex in Panchev and does not give great security to the citizens of Panchev or any other local self-government, where this will be found, that any stranger or possibly local person, who has the money to buy this company, will not continue to build harmful technologies. What we think is necessary, and in this case, the Government should play a major role, which is that in the tender sale of these large enterprises, in the very tender conditions that "dirty technologies" will not be able to be built, as they are called in these cities and within these factories, and that only those technologies that reduce environmental pollution will have to be done and that will allow these citizens living in those cities where the chemical industry will be sold not to live up, but to live better after our privatisation law. I think it's necessary for the government to make a regulation that regulates tenders. By calling the tender itself, that conditions for foreign or domestic investors must be so and so, and not for us to get in Serbia, especially in places where there is an infrastructure of petrochemical complexes, one site of old technology that leads nothing but further environmental pollution. I'm saying this because economists are mostly handled by profit and economic interest. Sometimes they know that they ignore the interest, life and health of the citizens, and that is why we must warn that this does not occur and that especially at these neural points, such as Panchevo, they make sure that it does not happen. Lastly, in our opinion, it is important to establish a large, strong, firm control of the entire privatisation process by this assembly. In most transition countries, which passed the privatisation law, the process was well followed by affairs, scandals, corruption scandals, and many of the privatisation ministers ended up in prison afterwards. We don't want that fate to be our minister. We want him and some of the subsequent governments to be the privatisation minister, which would mean that he will do his job well, that he will not leave any possibility of being in such a situation that someone accuses him of any abuse during the privatisation process. That is why we, in the Democratic Party of Serbia, will insist that our amendment concerning the control of the privatisation process, namely from this assembly, from the committee of directors of this assembly, accept that the control is carried out and that the privatisation process, which is said to be absolutely public and transparent, is transparent to this assembly and MPs, according to the committee of parliament, whether it is MPs from opposition or position and thus remove any possibility of bribery and corruption. Especially if we know that Serbia is at the beginning of countries of bribery and corruption in Europe. Any possibility of such behavior should be reduced. We do not prejudge that someone might behave that way, but we simply want to remove all opportunities and establish good control, to speed up the privatisation process, not to stop it, and thus enable our citizens to get into the privatisation process as soon as possible, to get fresh capital into our economy, so that the economy itself begins to function in order to, of course, start jumping the standard of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10315	The word has been made by MP Dragan Tomic and has been prepared by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10316	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these few days we have had the opportunity to hear a debate on the proposal of three laws - on privatisation, on the privatisation agency and on the action fund. As the idea of privatisation has existed for a long time in our political thinking of all policy options, of course in the practice of all political parties, however, it is obvious that different times and conditions have made different behaviours and different proposals when it comes to this law. Without intending to defend the previous solutions, I will look at several lines of the existing bill. There's a lot left for sublaws. There's a lot left for the part that we don't know yet, and a lot of things about this pay phone is said "if this is what happens," and all of it is a story -- we need money for investment. Privatisation isn't the only way to gain trade capital. I have the impression that in my own economic practice, nor in economic policy for this year, which no one mentions, no direction was found at all, any other direction for trade capital for our economy. What's the state of business we all know. But what will happen in the coming years, when it comes to this bill, is likely to privatise only one small number of enterprises. And that's tender privatisation, where strategic partners appear. Who are the strategic partners? Strategic partners are large corporations, financial institutions, as well as banking. Of course, and certain groups of lobby capital. And lobbyists already appear in our country only interested in those companies that make extra profits. These companies made extra profits for different reasons. Neither the sanctions nor any other factors could affect the extra profits they were making. There's nothing else to sell, no one's going to buy buildings, no one needs machines. They need cheap labour, the market, Stanko said, and the third -- it needs an extra profit per tax balance shown over the past few years. And, projections of extra profits for the next time. That's the real market value of capital, right. So, Minister. And that's going to be about what's going to be offered on the market. By the time I mentioned the market value of the property, it's nowhere to be exact. It is projected from to and according to market conditions. It will, then, treat the timing of supply and demand. The problem that arises at this point is that we will offer all that is worth in the Serbian economy from the moment on to strategic partners. I see that these days is a very interesting area of cement production, mentioning beer production, as well as some other areas, means without the intention of policying in any direction, but -- whether all economic assessments are made, whether all parameters are done, whether we get the highest values for our businesses. Are there at all interested partners for these companies and what we do the moment we sell 200 Serbian companies, large and best? And these are those companies that have had and will have extra profits and they don't need trade capital. Those assets we get will serve as trade capital for the second part of the economy, that part of the economy we need to raise. What's he like right now when we want to pick him up? It's nothing. What are strategic branches further in the Serbian economy, which we want to raise. These are major issues, major issues, no economic policy and no right to the economic policy for the next period. That's why there's a lot of "if" at this stage. Indeed, with the absolute respect of Minister Vlahovic and his firm desire for success, I want this privatisation to succeed, because in the way it is spoken of, it should bring good to all citizens. But there's a lot of "if," and we don't know who we are. So let's not talk. Before October 5th, we were like this, and after October 5th and the October Revolution, we're very smart. We're the same, these same citizens live in the same country, but when these questions come up, they don't have much to do with whether anyone loves a king or doesn't like him and whether he likes to wear a cocarda or a five-pointer. It has to do with the budget, with the pocket, and how we're all gonna live together tomorrow. So, did we get that second part of the privatisation that's going to happen, and there's going to be about four to five thousand companies left, which nobody's going to do. There will be many left. So don't mention the story here -- this is historic law, breaking up with social property. There's no breaking up. Don't tell the story, there's no breaking up. Four to six years in Serbia will remain social property. That's true. Therefore, who will remain in the legacy of the next election, this will be seen, but the problem is -- which segment of the social economy we will take, on which part we will rely, as much as we seriously want to support agriculture, or some branches, on which Serbian economy has tradition, such as construction, for example, high construction, low construction. I can't say for the hotel industry, we're not some tourist power, but probably some other branches in the Serbian economy have more importance than some para-production branches, which were formed in the period behind us. And of course, in the end, let me say a few more sentences -- when this part of privatisation is over, so the first part, we sell what makes extra profits, we take the money, I get the impression, and no one has explained to me that it's not like that, that we have no direction at this point. And MPs from various parliamentary groups have expressed concern here -- what's going on, how much of it goes back to some local community, where the company was sold, where the state took the money, how much it goes for pension insurance, how many older worlds, people who have 20-25 years of employment, go, by those previous laws, whether they're going to run out of work under the Labour Law, and that's what we've been deciding here. Two receipts are paid, and that's it. And will there ever be conditions to employ one 100 or 200 people, to create a new form of production? You don't have to build a new building. We have enough building, but will we have the brains to hire 100 young people in some segment? We didn't get answers to those questions here. There are many historical stories -- 60 years, 70, very empty. When someone's talking about 60 years, at least they need to be that old. Or at least serve the army. An emissary from the O.R. throws it away. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10317	I ask the People's Messengers not to receive from the place, and I ask you not to give instructions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10318	Of course, here, and this shows that we all lack wisdom. And to finish, a lot of serious things for the next time, a lot of concerned people, and a question for the workers -- the moment your new boss walks in, you're no longer workers, you're already hired, gentlemen in unions. You'll have to lead another policy. Then you definitely have to think about your rights. I thank you, gentlemen, and now I'm going to the SPS rally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10319	I ask the MPs, if they have accidentally left mobile phones on, or by neglect, to include them in the speech, that they do not do so, because it disturbs the session order and violates the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Mobile phones are a modern attack and it would be good to introduce a culture of use of mobile phones. The People's Messenger Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10320	According to Article 98(3), during the speech of the MPs or other participants in the search, it is not allowed to throw away, or interfere with the speaker in any other way, as well as any other procedure that endangers freedom of speech. In accordance with Article 100, the President of the National Assembly is taking care of the session of the National Assembly. I've been looking for a breach of the Rules of Procedure since the day the predecessors were presented. This has not yet happened in the National Assembly for the 11 years of multilaterals in Serbia. First of all, Mrs. Comic, in the National Assembly Hall rarely having a range, and what DOS deputies were doing during the previous speech, it was just not to use a harsh word, but it was a distraction by most of them including different bell systems, and all the time they distracted the speaker during the presentation. This is a very important law, a law that determines Serbia's fate in the future, and you act like it doesn't mean anything at all, you act like it doesn't matter whether there's going to be a debate on this law or not. Well, since that's the case, I suggest that on the basis of article 127, we make a recommendation. Can you see what's going on? To make one recommendation to the president of the Republic of Serbia, to disband this parliament. The unserious assembly of parliament did not have Serbia. I'm afraid the Serbian government has embarked on major reforms of our society with such an unserious parliament. I'm afraid we'll end up in chaos.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10321	I ask the MP to set a measure of words qualified by other MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10322	I haven't qualified anyone, but I've been listening to 50 different cell phones for 10 minutes, with 50 different sounds. Well, that really doesn't make sense. Instead of warning them, you say that if someone forgot to turn it off, and they include and play here at the National Assembly Hall. There the citizens are terrified, waiting for what kind of law we will pass, whether there will be layoffs of workers, whether there will be mass protests. Today you have a rally, one of many, which you will soon have, and you are here unseriously acting. The man wonders whether he should be with you to participate in further parliamentary work. But okay, we'll see.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10323	The MP warned on the agenda and we agree this time. We're all responsible for the session. There are reasons why I say I ask the MPs to take care of the use of their cell phones. That kind of behavior speaks of all of us, primarily, and I would really ask that we take care of it, as well as the MPs, here, now, that I end up applying the Rules of Procedure, as well as MPs who may not have a cell phone or have forgotten it somewhere, and they have mechanical bells, a little chatter, so they have fun with it from time to time during the session. So, I would also ask these MPs not to use the mechanical tone of the bell, for the simple reason that we all have the dignity of this congregation together. The word is made by MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10324	The Honorable Presidency, Mr. Minister, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first agree with the previous speaker, and I think we should preserve the dignity of this assembly, not to throw away, because we owe it to all of us. We owe it both to this house and to those who chose us. First of all, to express my great pleasure that we are finally discussing a legislation that will bring something to our citizens, to those who have chosen us. This is the law, in the economic sphere of law above all laws, a law that depends on what happens to Serbia further. I think the law is well-conceived. One opposition party supported him, said it was one of the best laws and the Democratic Party will vote for this law, and you will see why. I won't repeat everything people said, what my colleagues were saying. That's enough to get this bill passed. I will refer to what this law will change in the future, and I don't think anyone has mentioned it, which is that it will stop producing non-workers, large and small thieves, which have been produced by this self-management system so far. Fifty years, especially in the last ten years, everyone was stealing from the government that produced inflation and many other things, to the simplest porter, everyone had themselves embedded in this system. From this moment on, good workers, professional people, diplomas will be sought not only for employment, but only for a capable man to be said to be educated and able to do the job, and if he is not capable, no one will accept it or receive it. The biggest thing that this law will bring to Serbia is that in the field of education, young people will be educated for a job that will bring them money and profit, because private businesses do not look for quitters, do not look for officials as is the case in our businesses now. Of the 600 employees in "First Spark" 200 works in production, and 400 are directed. These are the various administrators, and there is no director, nor that state, nor that government, who can make a production programme in the company to make 200 people produce for 400 people sitting in offices. So in schools, young people will be educated for production and parents will teach their children to work. That is the greatest benefit this law will bring. Why am I so sure this law will work? The evidence is peasants and evidence is our workers abroad. Why do you think, gentlemen, that peasants and privates haven't failed in ten years even though they've been groomed to the end? Because they thought for themselves, kept money, worked hard, and had neither self - control nor managers to steal their money, but cared for their work and production themselves. Another example, our foreign workers. A lot of people went abroad from my village, and a good part of them couldn't fit into our system. They were said to be unemployed. These people came back from abroad with big capital. Were they unemployed? Of course not, but they worked in an economy that knew how to work, what to do, how to pay for good work. I have several objections, which I have made in the conversation with the government representatives, are actually suggestions, are not objections and concern the issue of agricultural land and the privatisation of the same. However, the minister and his associates are aware that if private property were taken away in 1945 and after that, if they were privatised, they would press charges and that would stop the privatisation process. Of course, it will be sublegal or some other things regulated. I'd just like to pay attention to that. I brought this paper because of some remarks the opposition MPs made here. I have no intention of defending Mr. Vlahovic, because he is very well defending his draft law, just as it should be, but since this is also going into the description of my job as a MP, I would like to make some remarks. You're saying this law will abolish some rights of workers. Gentlemen, I ask you, what rights did workers have in the previous period? They didn't even receive honest wages for their work. The good-working administrative workers received the same salaries as the ones that did not work. I think it's funny to talk about it. Only by this law will workers depend on how fast, but they will have the opportunity to make good money. He says the rights of citizens will be abolished. Gentlemen, in the past ten years, the civil layer has been abolished, the most frequent part of our society, those who carry every real legal and congratulatory state. How do we talk about these rights? This is the topic and the objections were to the law. It is also an observation that better businesses are first sold, so that the law will live, in my humble opinion, first sell what people are interested in, in order to feel the results of privatisation as soon as possible. It is also said that there is no social programme in the law. I'd just like to point out that there's a social programme, and whoever read the law and the reasoning, saw it. But there is another problem here that will come before us and before this government. That's the problem with social giving so far. The famous thing is that local politicians provided their relatives, their friends with social assistance, and good ones, and those who were socially endangered received nothing. I think we should do a review here, too. Finally, the issue of trust in the government and how it will implement this privatisation. For the Demochrist party, there is no dilemma. We chose this government, we had confidence when we chose it, it was proposed a good way of controlling, so the Assembly board, and the colleague mentioned the board a little while ago, so I don't think there's any problem here. If we don't believe each other, we can set up whatever we want, and whoever's not on that committee won't believe that. I think it's important that privatisation is done as soon as possible and that workers start working, that fresh capital comes into our businesses and finally enter the order of the countries that produce for export and for domestic purposes. There's another problem I have to point out, and that's the problem of denationalisation within this package of laws. It's a problem that I've just tried to express in replicas of my colleague before, and just so there's no confusion: the denationalization law is just coming up, and we're going to have a lot to talk about, and then we're going to hear everybody thinks about it and what they care about. Let me just say one thing, maybe no one in this assembly, no party, no individual has the right to talk more about it than I do, and here's why. A man standing before you, by his father's line, my father's father, they took away all things: they took away the land, took away the cattle, cleaned up the magazine, cut off the tails of horses. On her mother's line, her father was sentenced to death by shooting, her mother to life imprisonment, my uncle to death by shooting, and he was saved by having a nickname, so he came by name and stayed alive. My mother came out of 36 acres [36 ha] of land, when she came out of the threshold, and went out into another's yard, because her land was with them, because she was taken away, and she had with her brother, whom she had cared about for eight years. So, gentlemen, let's not talk cheaply about this denationalization. We'll talk about it as DOS MPs when the time comes and when the law comes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10325	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10326	In accordance with Article 99(3), the use of offensive expressions is not permitted. You should have reacted because this speaker heard everyone stealing in Serbia, from the director to the porter. Maybe you can feel something like that. Anyone who speaks from this booth speaks to the MPs on his own behalf and goes from himself when he speaks, but only in the name of the Serbian Radical Party do I tell you that we will not accept it. No Serbian radical, from porters to government, has been stolen or involved in any theft, and anyone who wishes to accept such guilt should not react to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10327	Mr. Nikolic, I agree with you. No offensive expressions are allowed, but I think we should keep working. The word is made by MP Milan Stanimirovic. He's giving up. The next is MP Dragan Shormaz.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10328	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the law on privatisation at this time when we bring it, regardless of the form, regardless of how it was written, who wrote it and how it was drawn up, means at this time when we bring it, it's extremely important, one of the most important laws. If we have carried out a political revolution and changed on October 5th, we have begun to change the image of Serbia, as regards the organisation of society and politics, then the law on privatisation should start an economic economic revolution. He must open the door for investment to Serbia because, we all know it, not to repeat myself, many people have said it before, we need one real healthy money, and this law should start deep economic reforms, which need to bring us economic and economic stability in Serbia. The capital comes, which is why I support the adoption of this law, simply speaking Serbian so that our people would understand it well, because capital comes only to a capable and demanding owner, or what our people would say, to the boss. That's why we have to start privatizing because there are some, as we've heard from the minister of data, 7,000 companies in general know who the boss is. The boss is also needed, and all our people know it, and in order to talk to someone, we need to have the titles and to get someone to work, to produce. I'm sorry, I feel disabled about what I'm saying right now, that I haven't spoken a little sooner, that the SPS MPs aren't present. I don't think there's one at the Assembly Hall right now, as far as I can tell, gone people, I guess they've got something more important to do. The important thing is that they were enough afternoon to raise the logs, that's important, and now they're gone, of course. I have no intention of talking about them, as my dear young colleague, as dear socialists, they are not dear to me at all, that would tell them that they were present here, and at all, those arguments we heard against the law I don't respect, and I don't think the people and the workers themselves respect these arguments because people know why they voted against them in October of the month. And that is, again, as the minister said, accumulated losses of 500 billion dinars, a lack of trade capital of 650 billion dinars, the foreign debt of this country, the minister said in dollars, and I will say in a currency that our people understand better, that is a German mark, about 25 billion marks, a debt to foreign savings of about 7 billion marks. It's like we're supposed to be sharing some free action, which basically means nothing to the workers themselves, and they know it well, and I've been talking to them lately. What I will insist on, as well as other DSS MPs, is that in this debate in particular we try to convince all of you to convince the Government to adopt those amendments that we have submitted, which relate to the fact that they cannot participate in the privatisation process, those natural and legal persons against whom the one-time income tax law is governed. It may slow this whole process down a little because of the documentation that needs to be filed, but it's something that's important, but it needs that congregation control. We have this one amendment, and I think all MPs in the National Assembly will agree that another vision is needed, regardless of what the minister has explained to us that there are four kinds of controls, that there is one more, either commission, whether through the committee in charge, parliamentary control of the work of the agency and the ministry itself. Because if the minister doesn't feel offended, you know what it's like, we can't be sure there's no hidden intentions. We don't think they're there, but you know, when a snake bites you, that's when you're afraid of a lizard, so we think we should still make a commission like that here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10329	I give my word to the People's MP, Bozidar Vujic, and the next is MP, Milisav Petkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, privatisation as Serbia's desperate need today. Ladies and gentlemen, privatisation is one of the main economic postulates of the SRS. Since its founding, the SRS has advocated and has advocated that privatisation is carried out in Serbia as expeditative, comprehensively and as comprehensively as possible. In that sense, it was a surprise decision by the DS to start the privatisation process in 1994, along with the SPS, to return to the beginning of the famous Djindjic law. After the relaunching of the property transformation process and the adoption of legal projects related to it, last September, the SRS submitted a draft privatisation law to the assembly procedure. The known revolutionary events delayed the debate under the proposal, and now we have received from DOS their version of the law that is approaching our proposal, the SRS proposal, but not in all particulars and not entirely. What's there is, we have a law that has the power of obligation. That's good. Privatisation, ladies and gentlemen, by understanding Serbian radicals aims to define ownership rights and introduce a market system based on competition that pushes for overall efficiency. An increase in economic efficiency, a faster way out of crisis or preventing crisis, is in itself. It is primarily about the reaffirmation of the market mechanism, while at the same time suppressing state interventionism. The economic denominator is the change of ownership structure in terms of full privatisation of the priorities of strategic interest and importance for the state. I mean the EPS, I mean the NIS, and I mean the public utility of the plumbing and sewers. Private property has long been treated as second-rate law and has been abolished in a long time by nationalisation or other legal instruments that have had the same effect. This requires its full consolidation and protection from national arbitration. Private property creates a more efficient corporate governance system, which is based on the maximization of profits and thus differs from social and state property. Social property is not a property in the civil and legal sense of that word, because it is in fact a public government mechanism. The state appears as the general majority owner, and its motive is not profit, but the achievement of various social functions, which create a hidden and purely personal individual interest. The inefficiencies of a system based on social property have been confirmed in practice, which is why privatisation must not be hesitated. It is necessary to achieve the openness of the transformation model for the real owners of capital but there is no need to cultivate illusions, ladies and gentlemen, about investing the foreign capital of strategic partners, which as a rare factor comes to us only by profit. And that means, in the end line, an outflow of profit effects. The capital market only has the legitimacy and legitimacy of nepristism. Anything else, ladies and gentlemen, can be indelicate or overrated. Also, it is good that the privatisation law is armed and that direct sales of business facilities, not entities, but objects, tender or auctioning, are carried out, that is, by auctioning. What's not good is that the government didn't want to dissipate itself with this legal project, that is, take all the levers and all the instruments for the privatisation control. So, to be disbursed in this sense, to execute the division of business facilities that will be privatized to small enterprises and to larger ones. You are not allowed, and you are talking about decentralisation, ladies and gentlemen, you from DOS, and decentralisation is in this sense within the privatisation law that local self-government is privatising small businesses up to 100 employees. What the law does not specify and why this law is in some sense lacking is that it prejudges the question of denationalisation. As there is no possibility of trade in actions, only this matter is suggested so-called. Financial connection, as far as the DOS can see, in Article 59 of this bill. What is also the lack of this legislative project is the lack of an adequate follow-up social programme. It is a cruel truth, ladies and gentlemen, that the application of this law will create certain social problems. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, I suggest that with effectively implemented privatisation processes, the manufacturing sector would have to be free of social functions. It must eliminate fictitious employment. A technological surplus would have to be transferred to the domain of social ageing. The country's special social programme should address the problem of social funds, overqualification of workers and their orientation to deficit jobs, as well as incentives for the establishment of new enterprise companies, and thus address the issue of employees. The success of privatisation depends equally on the availability and interest of investment in capital, as well as on the stability of the legal order. In this regard, as a Serbian radical, I believe that the balance of the reregulation of economic space must be rejected and the possibility of adopting regulations with a retroactive fact that annuls legal security. The Privatisation Act will probably be passed and hopefully initiated by the amendments of the SRS. It is innovative and improved, because Serbian radicals have the courage to define the obligation, the handiwork, the stimulantness, and the fairness of the privatisation law and therefore participate in this debate. For the end, as a moderate optimist, and a propo of this privatisation law with a certain dose of pessimism and skepticism, I must also note, and given that DOS will be able to implement this law, when I say privatisation, time will show whether this is Imamination and manipulation. And DOS has to be suspected, because DOS is the worst. [[Applause radically.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10331	Mr Vujic, you too are referred to by the observation made by Mr Tomislav Nikolic, that it is not permitted to speak offensively in the Assembly. In order to be effective, we continue to work. The word is made by MP Milisav Petkovic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10332	As I belong to a group of MPs among the three, who are the last speakers for this significant legislative project, and as a contribution from the Democratic Party and as a member of the DOS, by giving up the discussion, to bring this law to 19,00 hours and to the amendments. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10333	Thank you, Mr. Petkovic. The word has the People's MP Đura Lazic. He's not there. This ended the discussion in principle, and we heard over 90 dictates of MPs. I am concluding a joint principled review of the draft law on privatisation, the privatisation agency and the action fund. The National Assembly will vote on all the draft laws on which a joint principled search has been carried out, in principle, an individual vote, a search in particular, and ultimately vote in general. We move to a decision on the Privatisation Act, in principle. I'm putting the Privatisation Bill to the vote in principle. (Employee Tomislav Nikolic from the post: Rules of Procedure. ) For 134, there were no 16 abstentions, 6 of the 156 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the Privatisation Act by majority. [[Applause]] We move to a decision on the Predication of the Law on the Privatisation Agency in principle. (Employee Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) For 126, v 9, the abstentioned one, did not vote 20, out of 156 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes and passed the Privatisation Agency Act in principle. We move to a decision on the draft action fund law, in principle. [[Applause]] I am voting on the draft action fund law in principle. For 134, against 24, there were no abstentions, six out of 164 voted. I find that the National Assembly passed the Action Fund Act by majority of votes, in principle. [[Applause]] We move to consider the Privatisation Act in particular. [[Applause]] (Employee Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. ) You have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Tomislav, in order for you to not interrupt me, read Article 95, you can get a word on the Rules of Procedure when the previous speaker is finished. I'm also a speaker. You have received amendments submitted under the bill by the MPs: Stanko Kovačević, Velimir Budimović, Vojislav Obradović, Tomislav Nikolic, Branko Ružić, Rajko Baralić, Ljubisa Maravić, Dragan Tomić, Momir Radojić, Đura Lazić, Dragan Jovanovic, Miloš Lukić, Vladimir Garčević, Hranislav Perić, Petar Petrović, Dragan Marković, Dragan Tomić and Branko Ružić, Nebojša Jović, Goran Cvetanović, Slobodan Pavlović, Toma Bušetić, Slobodan Tomović and Joca Arsić, Željko Tomić, Božović Zečić, Slobodan Jan Žibić, Slobodan Žarić, Dragoljubić, Dragoljub Stamenković, Božidar Vuić, Vitomir Plužar Plužarić, Lazar, Lazar Marjanjić, Šežić, Šeljić, Šeljić, Šeljić and Branjko Tomaljić, Branjko Tomović, Branjko Tomožić, Žović, Žović, Marijavić, Marijažović, Marijadić, Marijadić, Žović, Žović, Žović, Marijadić, Žović, Žović, Žržar Žar Žbić, Žbić, Žržar Žbić, Žbić, Žar. [[Applause]] You have received amendments from the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Amendments and MPs Bogoljub Zecevic, Slobodan Janjic and Dragan Colic also submitted. National MP Miroljub Veljkovic untimely submitted 15 amendments, 8 June at 8.35 p.m., i.e. at the end of the deadline for the submission of the amendment, as set out in Article 138. The Rules of Procedure, so these amendments cannot be considered for consideration. National MP Dragan Rafaelovic submitted four amendments, which were not submitted in accordance with Article 138. The Rules of Procedure, since they do not contain members of the Bill of Law whose amendments are proposed, nor are the formulated proposals on which the National Assembly could be declared, so they cannot even be declared by the National Assembly. The amendments were withdrawn in writing by the following MPs: Jon Cizas - Amendment II, Natasa Jovanovic - Amendments to Articles 13, 16 and 26, Veroljub Arsic - Amendment to Article 4, Hranislav Peric - Amendment to Article 25, Dragoljub Stamenković - Amendments to Articles 9 and 34. Goran Cvetanović - Amendments to Articles 9 and 43, Srboljub Zivanovic - Amendments to Articles 9 and 19. Bozidar Vujic - Amendments to Articles 9 and 19, Vitomir Plužarevic - Amendments to Articles 9 and 26. Petar Jojic - Amendments to Articles 1, 4,9, 13, 19, 26, 34, 36, Stanko Kovacevic - Amendments I to VII, and for Amendments VIII and IJ, to Articles 60 and 61, has notified them that they are suspended. Željko Tomic - Amendments to Articles 13, 25 and 31, Mirko Petrovic, - Amendments to Articles 10, 14, 17, 33, 43, 45, 56, 60, 61 and 71. National MP Slobodan Adzic, at the session of the Legislative Committee, gave up his amendment to Article 9. You have received the opinion of the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the amendments submitted. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance, the Legislative Committee and the Committee on Industry. We're moving on to the first member. The word is Mr Tomislav Nikolic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10334	I'm surprised you didn't finish the debate by member number one, then. During this prelude, you have injured the Rules of Procedure - Rule 95, which says that to a MP who wants to talk about the breach of the Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker has been completed. All that you did when, after you said that we had completed the debate in principle and I asked for a breach of the Rules of Procedure, spoke, voted, talked about moving to a discussion in particular, talked about the amendments we submitted, about those we withdrew, all of it was just to provoke me and to challenge the cowboy atmosphere in this assembly, to get a round of applause for hurting the Rules of Procedure. This is the first time anyone's ever given a round of applause for hurting the Rules of Procedure in this room. I understand your haste. I understand that some of you are in a hurry to rally, and some of you are running away from this room, because you've heard that some of them are coming to the National Assembly to hold a rally here. But it does not affect the work of lawmaking and must not affect the respect of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I wanted to, and I've been trying all along to get word for injury. 95. The Rules of Procedure, to express my doubts about the results of the vote, the existence of a voting quorum, and wanted me to ask for nothing more than a computer listing on which MPs are present, which are not, because, under Article 113, Article 2 is for an MP who uses the identification card of another MP, or otherwise abuses the electronic voting system, and I think it is a mass phenomenon to leave a colleague's card to vote for you, abuse of the electronic system, that the violation of the Rules of Procedure is intended to exclude from the National Assembly session. That's why I'm looking for a listing right now. You can say it's no longer current, but it is. So I'll always look for a list when I find you're stealing, and I'll always ask that those whose card was left for someone else to determine the quorum or vote for it to at least be excluded from the session. If you cannot determine who uses his card, you can certainly determine whose card is used. Whoever leaves the card to be used by others deserves to be disfellowshipped from the session. So, I hope you get me a list. You, hurry up, you're registered as speakers, individuals, and Minister First.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10335	Mr Nikolic, I have already answered you about the violation of the Rules of Procedure - Rule 95, except that you have not read it in general - "to a national MP who wants to talk about the violation of this Rules of Procedure, the President of the National Assembly gives his word immediately after the presentation of the previous speaker". So I was in the middle of a show and you were waving at the Rules of Procedure. And I am a speaker, and I am a messenger of the people. It's the applause that makes me do everything. [[Applause]] My conscience is completely clear. I'm going to ask the service again to deliver a copy of the electronic records, so that we can make an insight, but we'll figure out if it turns out that you brought out the truth here that someone voted with someone else's identification card. Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10336	Who gives you the right to lie? When did I raise my suspicions that someone in the previous vote voted for someone else?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10337	Well, for Jacob Stamenkovic, today in the afternoon session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10338	I was just looking for a listing and nothing else. And when I warned that someone was putting in cards for someone else, you were acting crazy and deaf. When there was evidence for 15 MPs, you skipped it, and now that I'm just looking for a listing, you're saying that I was saying that someone voted for someone. Now tell me who I said he voted in this room and when I said it. Don't confuse the public. And let's have some applause. You need courage. The people are rebelling against you too.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10339	Mr. Nikolic, I'm sorry, but we don't seem to speak the same language. I'm just saying that we're gonna find out if you're telling the truth or if it's not true that some people voted with other people's identification cards, and if we prove it's true, we'll find it true. I said you'd be provided... Here you go, Mr. Wolfie, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament... Will you tell people to turn off their cell phones?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10341	I ask the People's Messengers not to interfere with the speaker as he exposes himself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10342	So, ladies and gentlemen, MPs... The emissary is waiting for the other MPs to be silenced. I'd like to call the chairman... I would call on the chairman to appease those who are unable to behave as civilizedly as they are, and if anyone thinks it is particularly interesting with that bell, it is not, except for the whole people, that it shows the citizens of Serbia what his attitude towards the National Assembly is. Will you turn on the microphone for me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10343	I ask the MPs to turn off their cell phones, please, people, where we are, to let the speaker speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10344	So I would like to invite the chair of the National Assembly to act in accordance with Rule 28, Rule 28, to take care of the respect of the Rules of Procedure as an internal sublegal legal act. So, the act of this congregation would be much more important and there is nothing more important, and I have already told you about it during today’s session, out of respect for law and legal standards. It's much more important than the cowboy atmosphere you create, so everyone's cell phones ring, they start yelling, clapping, they don't even know what they're clapping for. To any of your insults, whether someone's objections are funny or serious, it will happen again, and I urge you not to do this in particular as someone who is chairman, because you should be the same as the MPs and someone who shouldn't be and that it is used by arbitration and some kind of discretionary rights that are essentially no according to the Rules of Procedure. But this really doesn't make sense what you're doing from the scene. For Serbian citizens to know - mobile phones are ringing on all sides not because someone is calling them, but because they set up on the phone ringing. So much for your seriousness. So much for your responsibility. So much for your relationship with the National Assembly. And let me tell you -- I'm the one who's certainly more than all of you from the ruling majority, but the one that's perhaps the most in the last eight years gone out for this pay phone, it's hard to confuse me. But I'm telling you, it's almost impossible and very difficult to talk rationally and rationally under such pressures and with such criminal behavior. I'd like you to pay attention. Secondly, remember, today is Tomislav Nikolic, and I invited you to tell me when it appeared at the National Assembly MP Bojan Pajtic, who appeared on the document that he voted. How come he hasn't been in this congregation for three days? He's not here now either. To have someone come out to say so, as did MP Stefanovic, who is also not three days in the National Assembly. He didn't come at all. He's not even on record. Neither. So, what are we talking about? You're talking about one man... Whose jeep are you talking about? There was no comment from the O.R. About whose jeep?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10345	Time, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10346	I'm driving the South and that's official Jugo. Are you talking about your jeeps? Calm down, behave, be serious and act incomparably responsible and more appropriate to this home. Or are you going to applaud again? If the president says someone's funny or throws anything away. You'd better cry. You brought Serbia to deliver Serbs...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10347	Mr. Wolfie, time. It's five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10348	... As a living scale, you measure them, so you deliver a kilo of Serbian meat to The Hague, you think you can do it everywhere... Yeah, yeah...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10349	Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10350	Just laugh. [[Employers of the SRS applaud.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10351	Mr. Vukic, is this the applause of your MP group, which you complained about as a violation of the Rules of Procedure. You can't. I'll tell you now. The remarks are in place, but unfortunately, I must say that you are also violating the Rules of Procedure by throwing it out of place. You can't say... members of your parliamentary group. There's a video record of it too. Second of all, you're applauding the same thing and you went out to advertise that violation. It's really not nice. It's not nice on either side. You do. It would be nice if you didn't do it and tell the other MPs to break the Rules of Procedure. That'd be fine. Like this, I don't know what to tell you. Miss Natasa Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure. (Glasses - not there. Have you identified yourself, miss?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10352	Well, of course I did. Look in the document. Look at the listing, someone from the service responsible, whether the identification of MPs is Natasha Jovanovic in an MP's unit. Allow me, please, to advertise a member of the Rules of Procedure for whom I have called, and you can resolve your own dilemma. Article 104. I advertise the Rules of Procedure, which says, "If the President of the National Assembly cannot maintain order on a regular basis at the session, it will set a break in the duration needed to establish order. "This assembly has been a mess since its constitution. Although there is no Mr. President of the Assembly, Dragan Marsicanin, it has been shown to you and your colleague that you obviously do not have any authority over the parliamentary majority of DOS. Music that has been orchestrated in the last hour and a half is still present from MPs' clubping political parties that form the DOS group. It's heard from their cell phones. The working conditions absolutely do not exist. In addition, SRS MPs have on several occasions requested that they be provided with a listing, which you also owe to the Rules of Procedure, which is why I ask you to set a break that is necessary to establish order in any way. Please consult with the parliamentary group, Mr Jovanovic, who is head of the DOS parliamentary group, let him help you achieve any influence, if possible, on your parliamentary majority, and what the Serbian radicals did to Alexander Vukic a few minutes ago, was not in a pointless euphoric enthusiasm, (agree) but because of what he was saying... (growling) But because of what he was saying... Irregularity. ) Because he spoke of what Serbian patriots are, real Serbs, not traitors of his own people. He spoke of what you potential, which is that Serbs on the Hague list are the best-sold goods on the Western market. That's what your representatives say from both the Federal and the Republic Government, so solve it yourself - what's your shame and your shame.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10353	I think there's a line in and there's no cell phone. We can keep working. I can't hear him, Miss Jovanovic, can you hear him? Please calm down. Who's answering for a word? [[You can't hear any comments from the gym.]] Here you are, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10354	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is true that this Rules of Procedure is binding, above all, on Members of Parliament, and then on representatives of the position and opposition. It refers to the respect of Article 99. The Rules of Procedure, which obliges us to respect this institution. If there were irregularities during the vote, it is easy to check these irregularities and I propose that the consultations, which can be carried out after today's session is completed, be informed of that too the next day. At the same time, I ask all MPs to respect, if not us, as their political rivals, and those citizens who chose them and who chose their political competition. I am sorry about the mobile phones, but at the same time I am sorry about that parliamentary part of this House, which behaves with respect and the principles of Pavlov's reflex. It seems the only problem is that the cell phones that ring in this room don't ring like the cell phone of the president of the SRS, Vojislav Seselj, and, if you can't program your phones to the Russian anthem, please turn them off.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10355	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy parliamentary group, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10356	Two questions are being asked here - why do you mind Professor Vojislav Seselj and why do you have a problem with the Russian anthem? Both are synonyms for friendship, for patriotism, for fighting for the preservation of peoples and states. Why does Vojislav Seselj, when he is not here, and if that Russia is so bad, if you can't hear her anthem on her mobile phone, as a call, why did you run to Russia, which you've been making so much noise and lying about, now that you've seen that it's come to an end and that without Russia nothing can be done in Serbia? Don't talk about Russia on the escalator here. Here, from this Serbian pay phone, Russia can't be spoken ill of. If anyone has the right to speak ill of Russia, of Russian leadership, it's us, Serbian radicals, but we are silent and patient. We know it wasn't the Russian people who did it, but the Russian leadership, which you supported.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10357	We've got another word from the Rules of Procedure. There's a word from MP Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10358	I am advocating the Rules of Procedure, Article 98(3) and Article 100(1). What is it -- you, the chairman, are causing a mess in this congregation. How do you challenge it - when a member of the SRS comes out to the pay phone, Sava Kovacevic throws it away, you keep your mouth shut. I said rightly, Sava Kovacevic, not Stanko. Secondly, you cannot impose order in the congregation. The SRS, all MPs support order, but you throw, you challenge, you laugh, you simply get the task of challenging the SRS. Learn how to lead the congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10359	Mr. Marjanski, you're actually agreeing with me, I've found that there are all four parliamentary groups, and applause, and tossing, and what to do, somewhere bigger, somewhere smaller, and now I think it would be convenient to move on to Article 1 of our Privatisation Act. The MPs Branislav Blazic and Stevo Dragisic submitted to the 1st amendment, in the same text. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? (Employee Branislav Blazic gives up the amendment. ) So I realize that the amendment of MP Branislav Blazic has been withdrawn. And what about the Steve Dragisic amendment? I'm sorry, because Stevo Dragisic is not here, we'll still have to vote. So, I put the amendment tabled by Stevo Dragisic on Article 1. For no one, against 109 abstention one, voted 31, out of a total of 141 MPs. I understand that the amendment of Steve Dragisic to Article 1 has not been accepted. Members of the 2nd amendment were jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Do any of the applicants of the amendment want a word? There is a word from MP Zoran Novakovic, as an applicant for the amendment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10360	Dear Presidency, Mr. Minister, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have tabled an amendment to Article 2 of the Privatisation Act, which speaks of the principles of privatisation. Article 2 states that privatisation is based on the following principles - 1) creating conditions for the development of economy and social security, under 2) public security, under 3) flexibility, under 4) forming a selling price according to market conditions. Our amendment in Article 2(1) also changes - that instead of "creation of conditions for the development of economy and social security", it says - "creation of conditions for the development of the economy and improvement of the business of the privatisation entity. "After point 1) is added a new point 2), which reads: "Financing the social stability programme for employees who lose their jobs in the privatisation process. "The proposed amendment lays down more precisely the principles of privatisation, with an emphasis on the position of workers in enterprises, which will lose their jobs due to the privatisation process, i.e. the direction of privatisation funds, with the aim of ensuring continuity and improving economic activity in the companies in which the privatisation programme is implemented.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10361	Do any of the other authorized in the debate in particular want a word? Is Ambassador Jovan Deretic authorized to debate? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10362	The Honorable Madam Chairman, honourable fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr Minister, is before us one of the most important laws that came before this assembly, which is the Law on Privatisation, which in any case is historic for Serbia. This law changes not only property, which has so far been considered informal and without real boss, social property, not only to change the shape of property, the country's entire economic and political system is changing. This law should be, unless it's perfect, but at least it's acceptable for all of us, no matter what MP groups we're encouraged from. Our amendment to Article 2 of the Law was made to specify this law, to perfect itself, but at the same time, we are concerned about the consequences of the application of this law. We are concerned about how politics will be implemented, economic policy on those facilities that are privatised and where the foreign owners have the majority and the right to decide. For this reason, that this law would not cause painful consequences for our workers and for our society in Serbia at all, we asked for one position to enter into the law, which is to improve the business of an object that is privatised, which should oblige the new owner to continue production in the company, that this company does not turn into foreign goods halls, because as our Prime Minister here said, we primarily sell the market, not factories. We're afraid of that market sale, what's gonna happen next to those privatized factories. We also want to include an item that obliges the new owner to take care of the way social endangerment, which will absolutely come when the property is transferred. I think these amendments, which we have submitted, are relevant, that they work only to improve this law and that, although the Committee has rejected our amendment, this assembly should consider and accept these amendments.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10363	Alexander Vukic, representative of the parliamentary group, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10364	Ladies and gentlemen, the MP group of the Serbian Radical Party considers that the place of such amendments was primarily in Article 60, not in the principles themselves, but in a better review of the principle, which is what this privatisation is based on, we could see that there are some extra-legal and non-economic principles that were not needed to be found, particularly in the position of the 2nd member. And when it comes to the very text of the amendment, I'd say a few sentences. In fact, when speaking or in more detail specify the creation of social stability for employees who lose their jobs in the privatisation process, I have to say that what was our basic observation is, of course, social programmes, but that has nothing to do with the privatisation law itself. These should be follow-up acts, but our key requirement was not to go at all and not to create unemployment, something that should be the essential feature of this law, but to leave a number of employees in the process of privatisation for a longer period of time or indefinitely. With all the other conditions we talked about, so environmental protection, etc. And it seems to me that it would be incomparably more acceptable. But this kind of declarative norm, which in some ways would morally oblige the Government of the Republic of Serbia to take more and more seriously into account what should be the social standard of workers or those who will lose their jobs in the privatisation process can be accepted, but it would have been much better if the government wanted to accept the initiatives of the SRS parliamentary group, some of those remarks we had. I must repeat that we have not acted in this debate under this law nor a little demagogue and criticised everything that comes to mind because we know what the results and the consequences will be in the application of this law, we have already tried to talk rationally and reasonably about everything that the Government has proposed and I think we have surprised you in that, but I call on you to accept, as far as possible, some of these amendments, which essentially will not bother you, and many of the amendments submitted by the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party. If you had accepted some of the remarks we gave you in the principle debate, I am sure that no one could tell you tomorrow that the law is against the constitution, that in disagreement with some other act in the face of legal acts higher than it, and I think it would be a good idea that the Priors do not reject such amendments, but that I am the minister, or representative of the motionors, to make an account and I am sure that the law can be even better. It's not bad like this, but it can and must be much better and I believe that we will come across an understanding of the proposing representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10365	Does anyone else in the debate want a word? No, I don't. ) Before we move on to the vote, I am obliged to remind the MPs, in accordance with Article 82. The Rules of Procedure, on the way of discussion and on the course of the debate in particular, which is carried out according to the amendments. So, in the course of this amendment, we had reasons by two folk MPs who, together, submitted the amendments to Article 2. In accordance with Article 134. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, if the amendment is submitted by a group of MPs, shall be required to designate a representative of that group. We did not remind the Assembly of this, and then both MPs, who together as a group submitted an amendment, received word. We move to the vote after the amendment to Article 2, which was jointly submitted by MPs Zoran Novakovic and Jovan Deretic. For 19, against 114, one abstention did not vote 11 out of 145 MPs. I find that the National Assembly did not accept this amendment with the majority of votes. National MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic submitted to the 2nd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10366	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Article 2 says that privatisation is based on the following principles - creating conditions for the development of economy and social stability, public security, flexibility and forming a selling price according to market conditions. I've put the amendment on, and I'm asking for the word "flexibility" to be replaced by the words "difference of privatisation techniques". I don't think the word flexibility in this context means anything. The words "diversity of privatisation techniques" also explain the essence of the proposal's intention, because here is the work that talks about the content and explanation of individual solutions, said the law on privatisation regulates the conditions and procedure, and ultimately is said by applying one of the privatisation models. Article 9 also discusses privatisation models, Article 10 on methods and Article 11. How individual models are implemented. I don't think that "flexibility" really reflects the essence of the proposal in Article 2 and that these words that I have proposed as a possible solution would be more relevant to the essence and spirit of this law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10367	Does anyone else in the debate want a word? The word has been made by MP Tomislav Nikolic, as deputy president of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10368	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by attacking the word "flexibility" the amendment is actually trying to force the legislator to explain what this flexibility actually represents. Whether it will be the "flexibility" of the privatisation entity, whether it will be the "flexibility" of the government, whether the law "flexible" will be interpreted. I think that word, as one of the principles of this privatisation law, is not clearly explained enough, especially since no provision of the law is mentioned until the end of the bill. I understand that as a principle the promoter foresees public security, creating a selling price, the principle for me is not creating conditions for the development of the economy, I guess that's the goal, motive, and the principle is not. If the principle is "flexible", then he owes us a proposal to tell us what it means by "flexibility" and how flexible the state will be in the privatisation process. Or maybe "flexibility" will require a privatization entity, because I know you won't expect any "flexibility" from the buyer or expect it. In fact, it is adapted to the whole concept, economy, state, entities, capital, even property, and I think that MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic has shown with the right to Article 2, which is a very general provision, but all of us are interested in voting on this law what the promoter meant when he said "flexibility", which then supports it in further provisions of the bill and whether this "flexibility" is one of the conditions of privatisation, to whom he will refer and who will be obliged to be "flexible", and who will not have to be "flexible".
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10369	Do any of the other participants in the debate want a word? Minister Aleksandar Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10370	When the principle of "flexibility" is said, or as MP Stamenkovic has defined, the diversity of the privatisation technique is also meant to be "flexibility" in the launch of the initiative, and as you know, the initiative can be initiated by the entity, but also by the agency, or by the customer, and by "flexibility" in defining the amount of funds obtained through the privatisation revenue that will be spent depending on the cost of social programmes for each individual company. Therefore, "flexibility" refers not only to the choice of methods, i.e. the combination of the privatisation method, but to the "flexibility" of the complete privatisation process.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10371	Anyone else want a word? If not, I would like to put the amendment to article 2 submitted by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic. For 19, against 112, two abstentions were held, not 14 votes, and a total of 147 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. National MP Milan Jankovic submitted to the 3rd amendment. The Government, the Committee on Finance, the Committee on Industry and the Legislative Committee did not accept this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? Do any of the authorized participants in the debate want a word? If not, I put amendments to article 3 submitted by MP Milan Jankovic. I ask the People's Messengers to plead. For 9, against 115, there were no abstentions, no vote 23, a total of 147 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted this amendment. In accordance with Article 3 of the amendment... The violation of the Rules of Procedure, MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10372	On the basis of Article 93. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, please check the quorum because it seems to me that there are a number of MPs, see for yourself that they are now coming back, that he has left the hall.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-26-0.u10373	On the proposal of MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic, I ask the MPs to establish the quorum needed to decide. While we wait for all MPs to complete their identification, I will only have the MPs present to, by Article 82. Rules of Procedure, I shall notify the information on the interruption of the work of the electronic voting system. Not today, but on July 2, 1997, there was a failure of the electronic voting system around 15 hours, June, here I have information that it was July 2, 1997. The present MPs will hear until the end, despite the intervention of the professional service, or the reset of the system, the system remains blocked due to the inactivity of the control computer on the chair table. That is why the session continues in accordance with Article 84. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, counting the MPs of the people. At the end of the session, an electronic system expert with the participation of Professor Zoran Petrovic joined an analysis of the cause of the failure, possible detection and removal. During the analysis, it was found undeniably that the presence of mobile phones had the same system failure effect and other tests and tests could not have caused the effect. We note that there have also been doubts during previous sessions that there has been a disturbance in the work of parliamentary units in the O.R. by mobile phones. As a result, a team of experts asked for mobile phones not to be brought into the O.R. or to be completely excluded when they were with the MPs and at the National Assembly. This information was heard by the MPs present. Here you go. According to the electronic record, it is present, now I do not know whether 118 or 119 of the MPs, since it is constantly changing, but since practically within five minutes the end of working hours for today, I find that tomorrow's session will continue on June 27th at 10 p.m., with further discussions in detail on Article 3rd Amendment 1, which was submitted by MP Tomislav Nikolic. I thank the Members of the People.
