ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8621	Mr. President, colleagues and fellow Members, I propose that this agenda item per discussion period be reduced to 5 minutes for the efficiency of work, because it is an obvious thing that for this item of the agenda it is not necessary to discuss 10 minutes per proposal, regardless of what the debates are for both resolutions and appointments, because indeed, there is no need and does not require such a period of discussion on this agenda point. I suggest that the Assembly plead that the debate should be shortened for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8622	He has the word Mr. Vojislav Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8623	The SRS parliamentary group insists that the duration of the debate on this agenda should be maximumly foreseen by the Rules of Procedure, as it is a large number of resolutions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8624	Mr. Seselj, that is not a proposal, you are opening a debate, which is not allowed by the Rules of Procedure under this proposal.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8625	I'm just making a suggestion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8626	You didn't suggest anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8627	Who didn't suggest?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8628	You didn't suggest anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8629	You didn't listen to me, the problem is with you, not me. I said that the duration of participation in the debate will be the maximum time foreseen by the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8630	It's not specifically suggested, it's understood, and you can only be so visprestant, when you want to abuse the pay phone, to suggest an extension of time. Be so skillful and vispres.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8631	You insist. First of all, I don't have to be skillful, or visperous, since you're my precious helper, and since you're already helping me, I'm asking for the debate to be 20 minutes. And why - I didn't open the debate, I'll only open the debate when I answer the word, but I stress the reason for the debate to last longer. It is unlikely that most SRS MPs will not report, but many will come forward, because today there is a great number of resolutions of judicial and prosecutorial functions and an even greater number of appointments, and we cannot talk about everything that appears here as a problem, in terms of resolution and appointment, especially if we go into individual cases, which we have the right to as MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8632	He has the word Mr Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8633	Mr. President, you can't put a vote on Parliamentarian Stanko Kovacevic's proposal, he followed up after you opened the debate. You said, "I'm opening a debate," and then he answered the Rules of Procedure. You're the one who opened the debate, and there's no limit on time in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8634	The objection is justified, the debate is open, the late proposals. Is the Committee's representative answering for a word? He has the word Mr. Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8635	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, before the National Assembly, is a number of proposals for resolutions and appointments from first-judgment functions. The proposals, with reasons, have been given in writing and I will try to point to the most important questions about these proposals in a brief manner. The first proposal is to dismiss the Constitutional Court judge, Mr. Djur Svorcan, for his retirement. The Justice Committee has received an appropriate proposal from the Constitutional Court and has made a declarative decision to propose to the National Assembly that Judge Djuro Svorcan be relieved of the duties of the Serbian Constitutional Court. A number of proposals refer to the resolution of judges from the judge's office, to a personal request and to retirement. All these proposals have been provided with an appropriate proposal from the Supreme Court, and in these cases, the Justice Committee has also made a declarative decision to propose resolutions to the National Assembly. The two proposals concern a resolution from the judge's office, the discharge of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade, Milena Arežina, and the judges of the Municipal Court in Ruma, Azre Vranic. These proposals were adopted at the Committee on Justice on a proposal sent to the Committee by the General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia. The Committee concluded that the discharge procedure was implemented, i.e. the proposal for resolutions implemented in all respects of the law and the Constitution. The general session of the Supreme Court of Serbia has unanimously proposed to the Committee the discharges of judges Milena Arežina and Azra Vranic. The next proposal is to suspend the office of the President of the Court. The proposal has two parts -- one part of the court's term of office, due to the end of the four-year term. As there was no proposal for the same presidents to be re-elected to the function, then it was also a declarative act, a finding that the mandate had expired and a proposal for the National Assembly to establish this fact by its decision. In a number of cases, the Committee on Justice, within its jurisdiction, proposed a resolution, i.e. the termination of the duties of the President of the General Court before the end of the term of office. I would remind the MPs that we have already discussed the procedural aspects of this proposal in this National Assembly and that the National Assembly has found that it is the Committee that has been authorised to propose a resolution from the office of the President of the Court, unless it is also a solution from the judicial office. The function of the President of the Court is not supplied with the continuity guaranteed by the Constitution and the law. On the contrary, it is temporary, it lasts for the longest four years, and the president of the court may be relieved of his duties before that deadline, if there are organisational problems in the court for which the president is guilty. The Committee established the reasons for the resolution, taking into account information based on reports on the work of courts and controls carried out by the competent authorities. The control has shown in all these cases a great deal of impunity, a large number of violations of the Rules of Procedure and other irregularities, which led the Committee to propose, with three abstentions, to the National Assembly of these resolutions. Finally, the Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia decided to propose to the National Assembly appointing a number of municipal and district courts presidents, where seats have been vacant. This proposal was preceded by a long, complex and law-based procedure. An ad has been published, the control of the candidates reported has been carried out, the proposals have been sent to the Supreme Court and to the Colleges of Courts, but also to other authorities and organisations interested in the quality of the work of the first court and all opinions have been respected. That all opinions are respected shows that the Committee has unanimously decided, therefore, regardless of the party membership of the Committee members, to refer this proposal to the National Assembly. Finally, I would say that a number of other initiatives have arrived to resolve judicial functions in courts and in prosecutors. The Committee has put all these initiatives, regardless of who they come from, in the process and addressed those bodies that are in the process, in charge of giving their opinion on these initiatives. Given that the Committee adopted these proposals, acting in accordance with the Law on Courts and the Law on Public Prosecutors, I ask the National Assembly to adopt these proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8636	Any word from the president of the parliamentary groups? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8637	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the chairman of the Committee's agenda has had to inform the National Assembly in writing about all individual initiatives. He didn't do it. He just said here, there were other initiatives that were taken in the process and nothing else. He was obliged to fully inform the National Assembly of what initiatives were involved and what stage the procedure had reached. The SRS parliamentary group submitted a request to the Committee for the resolution of the fourth municipal public prosecutor Biljana Radovanovic, due to direct involvement in the international affair "Mercedes Benc". Together, the president of the First Municipal Court, Vojkan Simic and his deputy, Cesarevic, and a number of judges, are involved. We got it (from the brothers' room in Burgia), ask Cedomir Jovanovic for it, not me anymore, when you are not Djindjic yesterday. I don't know why, the judges are picking up, well, only the judges are gonna come forward. This is where the Committee avoided getting involved in this affair, in fact, for some reason the members and president of the Committee are running away from it. I know it's a very complicated thing, but it's very important that this issue be resolved and that people involved in this affair do not perform judicial functions. Secondly, we have here to relieve the Constitutional Court judges of an inadequate argument. The Committee says that the Constitutional Court of Serbia has agreed to this and the Constitution has notified the National Assembly that Djuro Svorcan has met the conditions for retirement. That's not true. Then why do you deceive the National Assembly? The Constitutional Court cannot inform the National Assembly because the Constitutional Court does not exist. According to the Constitution, the Constitutional Court is a collective state body. The collective state body only exists when most of its members are required. That would mean, if 120 of you gathered here, if you told someone, the National Assembly had that and that. The National Assembly can't say anything until it's a total of 126 MPs. That's how the Constitutional Court couldn't inform you either. It could have been the secretary of the Constitutional Court, could have been the maid of the Constitutional Court, could have been an accountant or an accountant of the Constitutional Court to inform you, but the Constitutional Court did not, and you tend to avoid doing what was necessary, in order for the National Assembly to complete the Constitutional Court of Serbia and that Serbia would have a Constitutional Court at all. We do everything we do, we do in unconstitutional conditions, because a very important state body doesn't exist, it doesn't perform its function. Furthermore, there is something going on here in this appointment proposal, and what was not, as much memory has served me since World War II, and especially it couldn't have happened before World War II, because then the judge function enjoyed a much greater, well-deserved reputation in society, and it wasn't allowed to interfere with it, as it existed after World War II, which you inherited. Today, in order for someone to advance or be elected judge or president of the court, he must unconditionally be a member of a DHSS party, and above all, DHSS. You see, what's the explanation for the appointments of Judge Officers? It is said that all candidates have received opinions from the relevant authorities and organisations on their reputation for performing the judicial function they enjoy in the environment in which they live and work. That's what Hiber was learning when he was an activist at the Communist Union, when such an opinion was also being given to advances in college. He always had a good opinion of himself and so gradually and progressed in college. At least we should get this out of circulation right now. There may be a foothold in the Law of Courts that we have long changed, but you promised to move quickly with initiatives to amend various laws, and now you're very late. In the past period, I don't remember the case that someone was promoted to the judge on the same day and elected president of the court. Here, it is elected Judge of the District Court in Valjev Dusko Djukanovic Judge of the Municipal Court in Valjevo. b) is elected President of the District Court in Valjev Dusko Djukanovic, Judge of the Municipal Court in Valjevo. This is the humiliation of all his colleagues in the District Court. You know, maybe he deserved it, I don't know the man, I've never heard anything about him. I can't even tell if he's good or if he's a bad judge. If he deserves to be promoted to a senior court judge, he still doesn't deserve to be president of the county court. There's no one who can convince the lawyers that he really deserves to be president of the court right now. It's just that with someone who understands themselves rightly, it just can't get through. We still have cases like that. We have in Novi Sad, elected Judge of the District Court in Novi Sad Sonja Brkic, Judge of the Municipal Court in Novi Sad. That's under a). Under b), he is elected head of the District Court in Novi Sad, Sonja Brkic, Judge of the Municipality Court in Novi Sad. In Novi Sad, which has so many fine judges, it's an unprecedented shame. Again, I don't know anything about Sonja Brkic, I can't say good or bad. There's an important principle here. We have a case in Ivanjica. He is elected Judge of the Municipal Court in Ivanjica Bozidar Glinkic, deputy public prosecutor of the Municipality's public prosecutor in Ivanjica. Then under b) he is elected President of the Municipality Court in Ivanjica Bozidar Glinkic, deputy public prosecutor of the Municipality's public prosecutor in Ivanjica. Is there a precedent like this in earlier practice? I'm convinced he's gone or they were so rare, I just can't remember any of them. Look what else is going on. Milena Arežina is relieved of the duties of the Court of Commerce in Belgrade. Why? For ideological reasons, I'm convinced there's nothing I can say about her, good or bad. I know she's committed herself to resolving the Galenika issue and returning to the state of usurped Galenika. There you set up a certain Kljajevic for the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade, who did everything in his power to subsequently verify the incursion of these Batics, armed with automatic rifles, kidnapping of Galenika and handing it over to Milan Panic. The same Kljajevic has now tried to initiate a liquidation procedure at the Post Office, the banking institution that functioned best in Serbia. Why? Because they needed to repossess a big, big source of money. That's how you hit the Postman's Savingsman hard by breaking the Banks Act, breaking many other positive regulations. Instead of repairing the situation in the judiciary, which you promised in a pre-election campaign. I agree that it was found in a pretty bad state. You have further ruined the judiciary, bad justice has led to inconceivable proportions. In this case, it was not allowed to actually go to any appointments or promotions, until the Law on Justice was changed and certain criteria were implemented which we had been working on for a decade, and you quickly forgot it, together advocated. As for the Serbian Radical Party, we insisted for two and a half years on a new law on justice. We do not have a well defined constitutional position of the judiciary as an independent and relatively independent branch of government. You rather than define such a position of the judiciary, you are bringing us back to the communist totalitarian order, where the party's politburo sets up judges, relieves judges, appoints prosecutors, relieves prosecutors. Only ideological criteria are represented here, and there are no criteria of expertise, skills, honor, honesty, etc. I know it was lucky for the current minister of justice, Vladan Batic. All the trials he had previously lost, now in a renewed procedure and by emergency legal remedies, he began to receive. The Justice Committee should warn the justice minister that the justice ministry is not the country's top judicial body, as it seems from time to time, especially from the public appearance of the justice minister. He thinks he is at the head of the judicial system and so he dictates, and he also has orders from Leposava Karamarkovic, the president of the Supreme Court, and everyone else who worships him to the ground. (President: Please do not throw, and you, Mr. Seselj, conclude. Time's up. ) So, all these judges, who were also on the payroll of various Western NGOs, are now making rapid progress, holding seminars and training other judges, as they should accept mondialist ideology and how they should judge by direct orders from the executive authority, and in this case above all, the Ministry of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8638	Mr. Batic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8639	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Ministry of Justice was neither the initiator nor the motion for resolution and appointment. What the Justice Ministry did -- it called a competition for the selection of judges and presidents of the courts and for the competition, obtained an opinion from the courts' colleges on the proposed candidates. So, what is the jurisdiction of the Justice Department, according to the applicable Law on Courts. So there is no special role of the Ministry of Justice, especially in selecting candidates for the presidents of individual municipal and county courts. What selection is best confirmed by the fact that the Committee on Justice unanimously accepted a proposal for the selection of these candidates, as both the Socialist Party of Serbia MPs and the present MP of the Serbian Unity Party agreed that the right selection of candidates was indeed carried out. It is the best confirmation that a good choice has been made for the presidents of municipal and district courts, in which neither the Ministry of Justice nor the Minister of First Instance participated in any way, as I deny one of the new lies, deceptions and lies, that any of the proposed candidates are members of the Democratic Party of Serbia. So, responsibly, I'm saying that it's nobody, that it doesn't have any access. Also, I don't know any candidates personally. I must say that the draft law on judges and courts has been completed, which will now affirm the principle of free and independent judiciary, which has not experienced any affirmation in the past time, but, unfortunately, the judiciary was then an absolutely extended arm of the executive authority. We're making every effort to statusally assist in the affirmation of the judiciary. In a few days, we will do what has been a long-standing disgrace and the shame of the former regime - Serbia's Supreme Court will finally, as it would seem, get its own building.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8640	The word is Mr. Hiber, the promoter.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8641	Ladies and gentlemen, I'm going to use my right to replicate some resolutions on the objections made in the previous discussions. First, it was an observation that the Committee was obliged to provide a comprehensive notification of the process under the initiative to dismiss prosecutors of the Fourth Municipal Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade. I don't think that's true and it can't be true. The committee received the initiative, initiated the procedure and the procedure was ongoing. The Committee's initiative has not made any decision. It would be really pointless for the Committee to inform the National Assembly of each step in the procedure. If there were no agenda, then it would be put before the National Assembly as a part of the agenda - the Committee's notice of what it is doing until no decision has been made. Such a item of the agenda is not possible, so no such notification is possible. If I mentioned it, I just wanted to show that every initiative is being approached with attention, seriously and according to the law. As for the notification by the Serbian Constitutional Court of Retirement of Judge Djur Svorcan, first of all, I would say that there is one rule that is older than both the Constitution and the law, which is that no one can necessarily remain in public office. Constitutional Court Judge Djuro Svorcan demanded that he be retired and that he be relieved of his judicial office in the Constitutional Court, and the Constitutional Court forwarded the request to the Justice Committee, which again essentially forwarded it to the National Assembly. No quorum in the Constitutional Court or lack of quorum can force anyone to stay where he doesn't want to stay when his working life is up. Finally, the election of the President of the Court. In a small number of cases for county court presidents, judges of municipal courts have been proposed. According to the law, their promotion has been proposed at the same time. In all these cases, the Committee on Justice has made such a decision after serious consultations which, in addition to other matters, included a statement to the College of the Courts concerned. Those colleges accepted these proposals. But what I think is important to point out, which is also how the Committee has been working on this issue, is that among the candidates for the presidents of the courts there are none who are not now, nor have they been the bearers of judicial functions for a long time. So it's not about a sudden and artificial move that changes the image of our judiciary. There's probably a need for such moves, but they'll wait for a new law. It is only one natural change which remains within the framework of the judiciary and which is based on criteria which are unnamed to the judiciary. Data were available to the members of the Committee, including statistics, on the quantity and quality of work of all candidates. Where checks show that there are doubts that the proposal is the best, the committee's proposals are removed. There were four such cases, to carry out additional checks, so that we would indeed propose the best candidates for the presidents of the courts. Therefore, only judicial criteria and no other criteria have been applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8642	The People's MP Branislav Ivkovic has the word, followed by MP Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8643	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, Mr. Minister, I think the Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has come back in a very unpleasant position thanks to the Government of the Republic of Serbia. By who knows which way is happening that in essence the Government of the Republic of Serbia is managing the Assembly, not the National Assembly of the Government. We all know that the session of the extraordinary session is scheduled by the Government of the Republic of Serbia and that it is proposing the agenda, but really if someone wants to have a government in this country that, in time, is considering, in a timely manner, planning its activities, then it is surprising that Prof. Dr. Zarko Korać, where he is asking for a change of order, that point 11 is considered point 2 and said - when determining this proposal, the Government of the Republic of Serbia had in mind that it was necessary to appoint as many judicial officers as possible before, and to create conditions for the normal functioning of the judicial system. It is the government of the Republic of Serbia, as far as I can see, decided on June 11th, proposing the agenda on June 3rd or June 1st, she didn't know. The fact that we get from the government 50 amendments, for example, as before, to the laws proposed by the same government, speaks of how much timely and well-designed work is gone. Discussing the resolution and election of judicial officials may be one of the most responsible activities in the Republika Srpska Assembly. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is the Supreme and Legislative Authority and the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is essentially the leading governing body in a single governance system in this country, and the choice of judicial holders, which by definition must be fully independent, which by definition must strictly respect those legislative solutions that the Assembly makes, is, in my view, the most responsible job. MPs of the Republika Srpska Assembly have today prepared to discuss the proposed agenda, item 2, item 3, of the extraprofit law. Many of us are data, knowing that this debate takes several days, prepared and expected the 11th point of the agenda, and suddenly comes the coward's egg and we consider point 11. What do we have to do now? We can say what we have behind the completion of the preparations, which is that Serbia's judicial system is in an extremely poor state, I can even say in a much worse state than a year ago, but not because of the performers of judicial functions. A huge part of the executioner of judicial functions honorably and honestly, with great knowledge as before, does his job. However, the atmosphere, the environment in which Serbia's judicial system works, has deteriorated dramatically compared to a year ago. The pressures on Serbia's judicial system are terrible. Pressures on the judicial system go primarily from state officials. Serbian citizens have also had the opportunity to read in the press, to escort electronic media and see ministers in the government of the Republic of Serbia and more officials taking over the role of Serbian judicial authorities, Serbian investigative authorities, the interior ministry, judge and judge immediately, on the spot, in the media, persuading people about corruption and crime where there is usually nothing after that. It is certain that they should do so where it is 100% certain that there are proven things and the judicial system should do so, to judge those who are guilty, but to use Serbia's judicial system, by pressing it, by introducing a forced administration, not in fact, in terms of certain people in courts, by putting pressures on the media and by putting an account function, political terror, persecution against political insinuators, is the greatest evil that can be done to this people, and it happens to the good part. You have as many examples as you want. Nearly 255 people who do not belong to the DOS party are in a variety of procedures designed in this persecution. Many of them have spent months in custody, and now there are no charges against them, because there can be no indictments against them. So how do people work in Serbia's justice system? Very difficult, terribly difficult. There is talk of reforming Serbia's judicial system, talking about cassation and appeals courts, it is said that everyone will have to go through new elections, it is said they will not be able to work law. What do they have left? To go into apathy, to delay objects, or to comply with the will of those who try to pressure them through the media. Therefore, these people we choose today, we have nothing against them, even a good part of them we have checked and I have to say that Professor Hiber is right, for a good part of them we have very good reports and we are glad that quality people are proposed to work in Serbia's judicial system, but we have an obligation, we here in the Republika Srpska Assembly, have the obligation to create an ambience for them so that they can do their job fairly, to prevent all the pressures that are being put on Serbia's judicial system. That Judge Cavlin explain why he is holding the prisoner Slobodan Milosevic even today when 12 days passed since the final witness was questioned by the prosecutor. Was there a reason for the arrest not to affect the witnesses? That's why he's out of his mind. Mr. Justice, you've explained in the same case, can anyone who's being guarded by a separate guard, who's under the control of state security, who's being tapped by phones, influence witnesses. Did Judge Cavlin question any of the prosecution's proposed witnesses? Yes, it is. Is there any reason for the arrest on that basis? Yes, it is. Why won't he let him go?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8644	Mr. Ivkovic, we don't talk about it at all. This isn't a courtroom, it's not a pub, it's not a madhouse.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8645	I would like to say this, here in the Serbian Parliament, we must be aware that we have a key task, precisely in this situation when suddenly point 11 became a point of the 2nd agenda, that we are explaining to everyone in the executive bodies that we are asking them to release the justice system of Serbia, without any threat to the introduction of appeals and cassation courts, without threatening to lose their jobs and not to be able to work for four years in law, to guarantee them, to all those in Serbia's justice system today, that they will be able to continue their work and that none of them will be at risk of a job, material and social security of their families. The task of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister of justice is to provide them with it. The task of the government of the Republic of Serbia and the minister of justice is to provide material but also moral conditions that they can do their job with honor and honesty, with knowledge. How come we're talking if we've got Millena Aregina's release today? What did Milena Aregina do to resolve her here in the congregation today? Did she take the bribe? Did she break the law in her work? It's not, gentlemen, it's much worse. You're trying revenge on someone who's done his job with honor and honesty. Therefore, Milena Arezina's resolution and probably another number of judges here and the legal holders is essentially resuscitating pressure on those who continue to work in Serbia's judicial system, to be told -- here, who is not listening, who is on the other hand, who, if you will, is on the political side, as it goes. Don't get into that. I advise you not to go in there. We are obliged in this country of Serbia to calm the clucent. This country needs economic development, needs citizens' standards to grow, needs better living and working conditions, needs what Prime Minister Djindjic has promised here, free college education for all excellent students. This is what we should do, and we have a task here all of us, along with our executive body, and the government of the Republic of Serbia has to do as we say, here in this room to ensure that Serbia's justice system works independently, to work unburdened by fear that every employee in Serbia's justice system will lose their jobs, to provide them with, and if there were mistakes that there will be no more mistakes. That the ones we choose today, among which I repeat myself, will be largely identified by those we too have information that they are honorable and honest, that they know that they are doing their job well and that they are doing the job.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8646	Replica, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8647	It seems to me that Mr. Ivkovic should first discuss with himself what he has to object to. On the one hand, he boasts, and on the other hand he goes. For all this time, I don't know if anyone's been relieved of the judge's post by now. Perhaps today will be the first time after all these many months, and the story of a bad atmosphere in the judiciary, or worse than before, just doesn't make sense. Such a bad atmosphere was created during your regime in the judiciary that the mountain couldn't be. So this has been said before, and how to talk about the atmosphere in the judiciary when, I repeat for the fifth time from this speaker, Serbia was the only country in Europe where the Supreme Court of the country had not had its own building, where the President of the Constitutional Court, not that he was a top legal expert, but an economist, where the salaries of the District Court judge, for example -- who decide on the most numerous things, made death sentences, about life, about death, about freedom -- 200 marks. What an atmosphere in the judiciary, we inherited a catastrophic situation in the judiciary. Do you mention the atmosphere in the judiciary when the justice ministers and the Supreme Court presidents were the main creators of the electoral theft? Is that the atmosphere in the judiciary? You mention appeals and cassation courts, Mr. Ivkovic, and you don't know what that means. Read the proposal, or draft Court Act, and you will see. It's not against the interest of the judge, it's in the interest of the judge. No one's been cleared. The holders of judicial functions that are being resolved, the judges remain, so no one's head has been taken off, nothing bad has been done, and you yourself have said that your MPs on the Justice Committee have been unanimously, with the MPs of the DOS, said that the proposed candidates are indeed right. So if he's lying to a goat, he's not lying to a horn. After all, you mentioned that the government is managing the work of the Assembly. It does not govern, Mr. Ivkovic, the Government of the Parliament's work, but if this session takes two months, and all the odds, when we saw how many amendments there are to the privatisation law, it is perfectly logical to suggest that there be only a change in order of agendas and that is not any conducting of the work of the Assembly, but quite meaningful and comprehensive, and it is absolutely benevolent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8648	The word has been made by MP Cedomir Jovanovic, and after him, another announcement, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8649	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I think there are two serious topics on which, based on what has been said so far, as representatives of the parliamentary majority, we must give our comment and an argument. First of all, I mean the way and the method that we went through to get to this proposal that we're talking about today, and I mean the ideological character of the proposal that one of the representatives of the opposition spoke about. These are serious remarks preceding the findings of my predecessors, which I agree with, which describe the situation in our judiciary. Together, we can conclude that it is bad and that the society in which the judiciary, according to the representatives of citizens, is not good, can not just count on a better future. So if something's wrong, it's gotta change. It has to change according to the law and it's done this time. We think that the law should be amended, and the minister was talking about a bill that had already been made. The secretar of the law will correct those anomalies that have been observed and the anomalies which, among other things, oblige us today to be MPs, who are in greater or less, given this kind of work, so impose on us through this point of the agenda, obliged to talk about it. I hope that in the future, as we adopt the law on courts through serious discussion, we will be spared the responsibility of this kind of decision and transfer it to those who will be obliged to carry it out on their own. As for the ideological context, which is allegedly dominant in the election process, above all the president of the courts, I think that this kind of criticism is unfounded, because as far as I know, of the 15 members of the Justice Committee, 14 members voted in favour of the proposed solution. The differences existed only in those procedures in which the resolutions of individual judges were proposed. You won't find, after 120 or 130 days of government, an example of any rematchism in the judiciary. There are criticisms of lawyers, but the lawyer is in the office of counsel. He defends the interests of him whom he represents. Is it about Slobodan Milosevic, if it's about Zoran Djindjic, the lawyer is always in the position of the one he hired. When we talk about serious criticisms that are directed at the judiciary, I mean, first of all, rematchism. You have very clear examples of controversial decisions that have been subsequently changed or not changed, which have been annulled by the decisions that went, let's say, in favour of the political attitudes in which we, as the parliamentary majority, have represented, criticising our predecessors, who have been in favour of our predecessors, who have demonstrated, for example, certain judicial decisions in such a way, confirmed their own quality. It's only one person's resolution, it's about Mrs. Aregina, the person against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted because a member, or as a member of the Federal Election Commission, has roughed up the laws and created something which, not only in the opinion of DOS representatives, but also in the opinion of many who are criticising us today, and has been an election theft. Does the person involved in the electoral theft, against whom the criminal proceedings are being conducted, deserve to be a judge in our society? Can it assess what is right and justice, whether it can apply the law, if it was not ready to respect what is the essence of a democratic society, which is the essence of a coherent country. It's respect for the will of the citizens. And finally, when we talk about all these individual solutions, it is important to say that we have maximum respect for the views of all the representatives of the parties of Parliament in the Committee on Justice and Administration, that we have maximum respect for the positions of the courts, and that there is no contradictory decision on these proposals with which we are going to Parliament today. There may be a dispute within the DOS, to propose judges who have tried certain DOS parties today, there may be some internal dissatisfaction with some proposed solutions, but in what is today before the MPs of the Assembly, there is nothing that would be a picture of the political rematch that is being talked about and who is not real. Some prosecutors may be asked to be resolved because the prosecutor represents the state in the proceedings against a party that has its deputies in parliament, but will be decided by the Justice Committee and then by the assembly. It's legitimate, it's in accordance with the law. It would not be good if we here from the assembly pay phone, without argument, were to belittle those of whom we expect to be the pillar of a democratic society. Those who will point to what is good and correct what is bad. In such a way, the security of citizens collapses, thus taking away our right to an orderly future. If we said that the judiciary isn't good, not getting into the past now, and the analysis that made us come to the situation that we're in today, then we have to change something and this is an attempt to do something like that. I hope that we will have before the MPs a law on courts very soon and that through these laws we will take another big step forward in giving rights to those who can best interpret it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8650	Mr. Ivkovic, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8651	Ladies and gentlemen, I am extremely sorry that at this moment, when discussing the holders of judicial functions, if you want to be open and explicit about the judicial system, today in Serbia of 166, the number we have on screens, there are no more than 100 to 110 people in the room, which speaks of how seriously one part of the MPs is experiencing this debate, and just today we have followed this speaker in previous exhibitions to demonstrate the change of access to justice and justice. The most modern principle is the principle of the HH century that everyone is innocent until proven guilty, until convicted, so even a conceited system of complaints to senior courts, supreme courts, is given a chance for every citizen to fight and if he decides against him to prove his innocence, but everyone is innocent until proven otherwise. In this new system, the last seven or eight months, it's been replaced. We stepped back into the Middle Ages. Some people get angry when you're talking about the Inquisitors here, which was the Inquisitor's system -- when the church, when the government accuses you of being guilty, you have to fight to prove you're innocent, and you're guilty until you fight something, if you can. Well, that's exactly the problem, my dear gentlemen. We've just heard about Milena Aregina, that she's been charged with criminal charges, and she's incompetent -- she can't judge. Has she been convicted? (The ambassador slams his hand in the payphone, voices -- don't beat) He didn't. No, gentlemen, she hasn't been convicted. The justice system's working. The judicial system is considering criminal charges in the investigation procedure. More charges, as far as we know, have not been filed. The trial hasn't started yet, gentlemen, and it's decided... (Glassing) It will be. Gentlemen, hundreds and hundreds of people are in such positions because someone pointed a finger at them and said, by the system of the Middle Ages, they're guilty, criminal charges have been initiated, they have to be initiated. Tens and hundreds of financial inspectors are going through Serbian collectives today, complaining to these directors and saying, "I'm sorry, please give us something, anything, we can't go back, we'll lose our jobs." That's what you did to Serbia today. That's not good, people. I call on the Serbian Parliament precisely because, when it comes to Milena Arežina, don't because of the criminal charges filed, because the trial didn't begin, which we don't have, don't do for someone who's under the modern justice system in the world, who's embedded in every charter of international organisations, which is embedded in all constitutional solutions of all modern European countries, which is that you're innocent until you prove otherwise, don't ask us to do this to solve someone who's just being prosecuted, it's pointed at him and said, it's guilty. The criminal proceedings are on the move - that's what people are talking about. No one here has resented the individuals who are candidates. It is well said for this speaker - yes, SPS representatives voted in favour of these solutions. We checked these people out. The truth is, it's a huge deal about people who've always been good and we support individual solutions. We also claim here that a huge number of employees in Serbia's judicial system are really trying to do their job with honor and honesty. They must have had pressure at a time when the Socialists were in power. That's not what I'm running from. But at the time, no one was arrested through the papers, no one was speaking through the newspapers, there's a indication that someone was responsible for the murders. No one's ever ruled on the papers on criminal charges. That's what people are about. It's a very serious moment. Be the hosts and citizens of this country of Serbia. Check and think about the difference between HH and HHI centuries, and that's that you're innocent until proven otherwise, and that principle that's here in play behind this pay phone -- you're guilty because criminal charges have been filed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8652	Here you go, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8653	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and I thought until October last year there couldn't be a worse situation in our judiciary. But now we've all made sure it can be really worse. She's even worse now than she was. Gora is because there is much greater party and ideological interference in courts and because the executive authority is more involved in the work of the judiciary. Here, we also have concrete evidence to mix it up. When this session of the National Assembly was scheduled, we received the agenda established by the government. The government has exceeded its jurisdiction over the 11th point. The government could not request an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly and put an end to the agenda - Proposals for the resolution and appointment of a number of judicial officials. The government doesn't know that. That's not what the government knew to teach the Minister of Justice. You scheduled this session, but as I recall, we also received the signatures of DOS MPs. So you could have made an appointment and that's why we didn't want to make a question. We didn't think there was any stupidity to be reacted to, not even to the stupidity of the government. But today, the government appears as one who seeks to change the agenda, so that judicial functions come to a different place, instead of being 84 MPs of the ruling coalition. Now, there's proof that you're treading the constitutional principle of strict separation of three branches of government. In this case, the government, which has no authority whatsoever, except that the minister of justice is a technical person, when they inform him that the judges' functions have been vacant, calls for a competition, and eventually carries a contest in "The Official Messenger", in certain daily papers, etc. It's his only role. Nothing more (votes - by the way buy a burek). And, by the way, buy a burek, too. Now, that's what procedures are all about, which raises questions about your behavior with the asept of constitutional principles. Secondly, someone here said, we know well who, that there was no interference of the minister of justice, said Vladan Batic, in the work of the judicial authorities. Well, we listened, we watched on TV, we read in the newspaper his public statements that all holders of judicial functions, presidents of armed and municipal courts, etc. He didn't forget what he was saying. The minister of justice in no democratic country in the world can say that. He can only say where the politburo decides on judicial functions, in this case DOS politburo. I agree that all judges involved in election thefts and other malfeasances should be brought to court and punished in accordance with the law. But until someone is punished, it's as if he's already being punished. The executive authority assumes what punishment will be, and already through the Assembly is carrying out that sentence, although the process is not over. It can't. And if you really truly want to prosecute all the judges who have sinned, then you're making exceptions. We were never officially told the election results from the federal and local elections in September last year. The federal constitutional court has made completely different decisions three times. This federal constitutional court is still functioning. Why? Because they've got the neck down, they're serving you, they're obedient, and you don't have time to deal with it. I guess the federal constitutional court should have been questioned first and all judges should have been called to account. They broke the Constitution, they can't be judges anymore. All constitutional conditions are met. Here you just don't want Serbia to have a constitutional court. We've potentiated 10 or 15 times from this pay phone the fact that Serbia doesn't have a constitutional court. Neither the minister of justice nor the Prime Minister is declared, nor is the chairman of the Assembly's Justice Committee. Once, the President of the Assembly promised us that it would be for the next session. This is the third session after that, and his promise has nothing to do with it. It is clear to me, according to the Constitution, that judges of the Constitutional Court are proposing to the National Assembly the President of the Republic. But, of course, the President of the Republic must first consult the parliamentary majority. Now what's the problem? In the parliamentary majority, which does not want to be consulted, it must be consulted by nature, because it must provide the majority to vote in parliament -- or, in the President of the Republic, who will not do so. If the President of the Republic refuses to carry out his constitutional duty, then he should be placed on the table, launched an initiative for the shift. Maybe he can't for some reason. The constitutional conditions may have been met to declare that the President of the Republic, therefore, cannot fulfil its duties and to call new elections. But this question must be resolved in a constitutionally prescribed manner. The constitution is very clear here. There are no legal gaps. No further interpretation is required, only constitutional standards should be applied. You're running from these constitutional norms because you want to keep making laws, and whoever thinks the law is against it has no place to challenge it. You're running away from these constitutional norms because you want to keep making laws, and whoever thinks the law is against it, there's nowhere to challenge it. So you've introduced the state of lawlessness. I know that there have been major problems before the Federal and Pre-Republic Constitutional Court before, and that there have been a lot of party interests, that there have been ideological prejudices, etc., but this situation that you have produced is much worse than the previous one. At least we could have publicly challenged the Constitutional Court's constitutional and conflicting verdict. We could have made a mockery of her, if there was someone just such a flagrant violation of the Constitution of the law, and now we can't do anything, because whatever law you pass, there's nowhere to argue, there's absolutely nowhere to go. You don't even have to pass laws now. Put it in the paper -- from today on, it's a regulation, and it's over. No one can challenge you in front of the Constitutional Court. Here Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, claims there was no interference between the work of the judicial authorities, although we presented many facts on the matter, and says there were no scandals like in the previous period. They're happening a lot worse now. It has never happened before, even under Tito, that judges of the Supreme Court confirm an act by the Minister of Education, which abolishes the preparatory act of a university. It never was. That's what happened now, by direct order of the Minister of Justice and the Minister of Education. Now that's what happened. It's a precedent that doesn't remember our judiciary. That was not even with King Milan, who was famous for what he said - those who won the elections will not go to parliament, but those who won second place. He even exercised such self-will, but he did not interfere in this way in the judiciary. And who set up this Leposava Karamarkovic -- Vladan Batic, of course, is grateful for it. Here, when she took the oath, she swore to work with Vladan Batic. Be careful, the Supreme Court judge here, in the parliament building, promises to cooperate with the minister instead of proudly stopping, upright. Who's the minister against the Supreme Court president? And she'll cooperate with Mr. Secretary. And she, a poor woman, has learned what a judicial function means in England, but has only been taught how to work against her people and the state, and Leposava Karamarkovic has been convinced that the minister of justice is a higher body than the president of the Supreme Court. Everything's upside down. Well, we have to get these things back to normal, I guess. There's no good will to get it back to the right place. Vladan Batic says he doesn't know this, he doesn't know that one. I remember well the example when the Federal Parliament was sitting here, when it presented some fiction, some nebulosis, and I replied that it was all Alexander Stefanovic, his advisor, who planted it, that he had organized it all, Vladan Batic said -- he doesn't even know who Aleksandar Stefanovic is, he doesn't know this man, and in this term of the Republic Parliament, this same Alexander Stefanovic, his MP, the MP of Demochristian, Munov, the Satanist party, whose honor is President Milan Panic. Now, that's how much we can believe in the word of Vladan Batic, when he swears, he even often calls on God. You know, Satanists often call to God in public communication, because they don't respect God, they respect the devil, Satan, just so that someone doesn't hurt the one they swear to, which is Satan, and in God they can falsely swear to will, because they don't view it as anything illegal. That's the point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8654	Please, time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8655	I'd like to ask you, when you're making a deal with the Socialists, you DOSs, so they vote for what you agree to, don't do it in the first place, when you don't have any proof that your arguments are valid and credible, when you have no proof that you're doing the right thing, that you're calling, well, the Socialists voted. For you, here today, the only proof that you did the right thing on this election, and the appointments and resolutions -- and the Socialists voted on it. What proof is that? Think about it, little bit, what proof is that? The fact that they voted for your proposal, no argument whatsoever, could have been voted by anyone else. That's not an argument in itself.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8656	I warned you already on time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8657	I didn't hear you very well, because these microphones here are strong whenever I speak, so I can't hear your voice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8658	The word is Mr Batić. Just before you take your word, let me inform you that an emergency session of the National Assembly's Administrative Board is convened today at 11:30 on the fourth floor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8659	Some people obviously didn't get rid of manners to keep banging like Maxim in the division, like they were blacksmiths. Therefore, it is mentioned that the situation in the judiciary is worse because of alleged accompanyingness, I guess the proposed candidates, and I repeat again -- it doesn't matter who took part in the vote, but the proposal for candidates for the presidents of municipal and district courts was unanimously adopted on the Committee on Justice. As far as party membership is concerned, the mentioned judge Milena Arežina recently participated in a rally of the SPS in Novi Sad and cursed as a coachman. Is such a person worthy of being the bearer of a judicial function? Is such a person worthy of performing a judicial function? Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the election of Ms Leposava Karamarkovic as president of the Serbian Supreme Court, was a debate in the pralament. No one had a single word of objection to the election of Leposava Karamarkovic as Supreme Court President. All here are witnesses, all MPs in this House, and no one has said a single word in the direction of the discrediting of Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic, as President of the Supreme Court. Sad and sad that someone who claims to be a professor of law school, for days, and for this speaker, and in various media, written and electronic, discredits, insults, slander, defamation, demeans the president and individual judges of the Supreme Court and some other courts. It's really embarrassing and embarrassing. But those who do so will have to bear political responsibility for their actions, and they are already carrying it. It's mentioned here that there's some kind of inquisition system on the scene. Are there thousands of mounted court proceedings against opposition leaders, opposition party members, owners, directors, editors, independent media journalists, members of the Resistance movement? Was it the inquisitor's procedure in the judiciary? Yes. There's no need to explain that. As for faith in God and in Christian principles, unlike those who call on it, I have a baptismal of the Serbian Orthodox Church. Some, to whom the Academy of Science established religious membership, should not speak.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8660	He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8661	I have applied for a replica of the presentation of the president of the SRS parliamentary group, Mr Vojislav Seselj. As far as the SPS is concerned, it should be mentioned as an argument, as it is a serious party, present in every city, in every village, in every local community, a party that also takes care of its own staff, and of the personnel who are in essential functions, of importance to the citizens of Serbia, wherever they are located, in local self-government, in municipal enterprises, in the judicial system, at local or county level. And it is an argument and a guarantee, when we say that one significant part, even a huge part of those who are proposed, on our part, has been checked and has the support that they are honest and honorable, that they know how to work, but when I was talking here, I was talking about the ambience, about the environment in which they should work. The task of this temptation is to create this environment, to ensure indeed the independence of the Serbian judicial system. It is said here that someone is speaking at a rally, but those who say someone spoke at a rally, annul Judge Todorovic's decision to exclude him from the Supreme Court of Serbia, and return him back, and it is known that the reason for the exclusion was both party and resistance movement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8662	Are any of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? (Seselj emissary from the city: Replica. You have no right to a replica. If no one answers, I give my word to the MP, Mr Tomislav Nikolic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8663	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, by pretubating the agenda at the government's request, it is obvious that the government has realized that there is not much time to complete the dirty work it has been up to, through the judiciary. Apparently, she was shaken up by strikes of many social categories, and it's obvious she's making her own quick end. It's obvious that she's trying to cover up the dirty work she's been doing for these, when they say they haven't had time for a few months, and when they say nothing up there has changed, many months say. With this agenda, Vladan Batic meets his threats, publicly spoken, which he has never been ashamed of. Now it's a little lenient, 'cause he sees that he's gone too far. We still don't have an independent judiciary, we only have 700 dinars less wages to the judges on account of gross -- net, as well as the Ministry of Justice's promise that it will be corrected. Vladan Batic cannot deny that he has stated that all the presidents of district and municipal courts will be changed, even though they are now objecting, that all decisions are democratic and that the rapper is his position as SPS MPs, who unanimously voted in favour of elections and resolutions. Now there's a little bit of digging around the Assembly's pay phone, where they're seen by television cameras. Now we know they voted the same way. We are now dismissing another judge of the Constitutional Court. We no longer have a third of the Constitutional Court judges in Serbia's Constitutional Court and we don't see at all when Serbia will have a Constitutional Court. We have more than 70 proposals to appoint the president of municipal and county courts, and we don't have a proposal to finally have the highest court instance. I mean the only instance in which he's not being tried by party belongings, behind which the documents remain, which are being called upon by excellent lawyers for centuries afterwards. We were also asked by the Committee to deliver the party membership of the proposed presidents of district and municipal courts, so let's see about what the relationship to you is in the judiciary, not to ask now our local activists to whom this, who belongs, belongs when he joined the DHSS, when that one. I see that even the good judges are sitting at home, thinking and saying, let me sign up with this Batic, to be the president of the district court, anyway he won't stay in power for long, and this presidency stays. That's how Batic doesn't even get to know his staff at all. So many individuals from some of the municipalities of list delivery. They had such staff and other political parties, so they never benefited from them. About the review of the Court of Justice, the matter is quite clear, it's about Galenika. Whoever stands in the financial interests of Vladan Batic is screwed. He'd better be a lawyer, even though he'd be expelled from there, and I'm saying every judge you've got here is out of work and out of bread. Lawyer's chambers, which are also starring Batic and his groups, do not receive such people or lawyers. "Gallenika" is a cancer-scene of the Court of Commerce who has been shamed by the introduction of pre-licensed and liquidation proceedings even in public enterprises, at the Post-Spain Savings Centre, caused conflicts among DOS members, and many of the presidents of the courts have indeed had cases of judges who have been corrupt in their drawers. Now the presidents of the courts are accusing them of being off-limits to cases that have not been handled. We today, by our board of directors, have even indivisible proposals, proposals that have already been made, and I would only point to another aspect. For example, on page 2. The III district of the District Court in Zrenjanin, we are proposed to elect the Judge of the Municipal Court in New Vienna Judge of the District Court. And well, when we make that decision, that decision should come into force. Then let's have someone suggest that we choose that judge of the municipal court as president of the municipal court. No, with the position of 2nd point III, it is proposed that we re-elected a judge of the District Court to be President of the Municipal Court. That's what we're suggesting, Professor. Dragore Hiber. There are six cases like this, not to mention names, I really don't know people. If we elected Judge of the District Court to Ms. Jelena Shimon, we can no longer choose her as Judge of the District Court. If we choose the District Court, she's no longer in the District Court. But in order to choose, the Assembly here must make such decisions that decision must be made public, effective, and a new session must be held in which a judge of the municipal court will be elected president of the municipal court. Today, you are proposing to a judge of the district court that we choose for both the judge and the president of the municipal court. Now we don't know what's going on with these two attitudes. Both. I'd ask Mr. President to tell the minister not to throw it at me, and if he's already letting you draw attention to him that he's also feeling from the nasal cavity, and also from the buccal cavity. He should brush his teeth or turn his head on the other side.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8664	Mr. Nikolic, I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8665	You can do anything to me when I turn my back on you, and warn the minister that I, a people's messenger, am behind a pay phone, and that I am not obliged to be disturbed by different sounds here...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8666	It is your duty to take care of how you express yourself and what you say.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8667	Tell him to take a little bath and brush his teeth, and not me, no one's complaining about me. Here's another: if such a situation has already been bad in the judiciary, that everything has to change, what about the situation in the judiciary since this congregation majority has been and since this minister of justice. Whether a criminal report has been filed, whether an investigation has been carried out against the winewinner's accident since 22 February 2001 at 14.20 p.m. on the Šid-Beograd highway Cedomir Jovanovic, who was driving an "audi 8" BG - 471-649, owned by Serbia's MUP. What about the investigation into the theft of 500 pieces of weapons, long pipes from the Old Town OUP, what about the investigation against...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8668	Mr. Nikolic, that's not on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8669	State of the judiciary, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8670	No, it's not the court's turn, Mr. Nikolic. It's what you have in your motion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8671	Djindjic's co-worker in October's coup and the Ibaric Master's Office, the Legion. Who are the kidnappers, the tobacco smugglers, the bombers, the drug dealers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8672	Mr. Nikolic, I'm warning you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8673	It's been many months since you came to power. We hear the situation in the judiciary wasn't good until the DOS took over the judiciary. I'm asking you, what about the state of justice since DOS took over the judiciary? Usually, around this part of the agenda, we radicals don't have much debate. We would like the judges, the presidents of district and municipal courts, prosecutors to be honest and professional people, we don't care what political party they belong to. We are aware that there is no man who does not think politically and who is somehow not politically defined. It can't affect the way he does things. (President: Time. ) But the Government of the Republic of Serbia must not go so far into the judicial system, that another institution, another branch of government, is abolished, as it has abolished under your authority, under your authority, Mr. President, the independence of the National Assembly. We are completely under control and completely under control, and we depend entirely on the government of the Republic of Serbia, which is playing with the parliamentary majority in the National Assembly, doing whatever it wants. Fortunately, there is an MP minority who still won't let her do what anyone wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8674	The word has Mr Batic, a replica, and then the MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8675	Here, on many occasions, is the Constitutional Court and the choice of judges of the Constitutional Court. This has nothing to do with the government of the Republic of Serbia or the Ministry of Justice of the Republic of Serbia. The promoter is the President of the Republic, and the election is made by the National Assembly. Then, constantly some MPs have been trying to make me a commercial for days. Gentlemen, I was one of the most successful lawyers in Serbia for 17 years in law enforcement. If someone finishes it and has so much time, they can look into the court records. I can give him every case number I've ever performed in both country and abroad. Yeah, I've been an anti-communist my whole life. I was a law doctor in my 30s and I was one of the most successful lawyers in this country, by the number of cases solved in numerous and litigation and criminal proceedings. I used to have a dozen hearings and debates. When you're making me a commercial and you're doing my representation. You have to understand that it has nothing to do with reality. The Galenika case - has to solve the Arbitrary Greater International Chamber of Commerce in Paris. That's what the government decided. The stories of hackers, long and short pipes, incursions and other nonsense, so it's passed on to the flag, the Cat, the Mepritalastics, (and I don't know where it is or what this factory looks like) etc., are simple attempts to replace thesis, but also a kind of advertising. Because it's obvious that some people are bothered by justice, it bothers the truth, it bothers that there is no more hypocrisis, nepotism, immorality, privilege, concession, abuse, crime, corruption in the source, where the Ministry of Justice is located. Gentlemen, I have here a report from the Financial Inspectorate on the work of the Justice Department. The crime scene was the Ministry of Justice of the previous government. I won't, and I can't talk about it, because these things will be handled by other organs. (President: Time. ) As for a predecessor who doesn't choose words, to whom nothing is sacred, you know, there used to be an SRS MP sitting here in these benches. His name was Marko Pavlovic. He was a professor of Law School in Kragujevac. He who talks the most about justice here, with his party colleague Marko Pavlovic, failed to pass national history in the first year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8676	The word is by MP Branko Pavlovic, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8677	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a longer list of new human rights solutions in the judiciary. When we talk about justice and what we inherited and what new intensities are, we should consider that the system is in such a state that we...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8678	Stop the debate. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: We are threatened by the officials. ) Get out of each other and out of there, and discuss it in peace. Mr. Seselj and Mr. Nikolic, stop throwing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8679	So we have to have a broad picture of what we have to do in the next years in the area of justice, to make this system comparable to the systems of developed countries. Part of the job can't be done right away. What we can do in the first year, these are the following things: change, to the extent that it is necessary, officials in the field of justice, managers, above all the President of the Courts; new law on courts, and there was a need to significantly increase salaries in the first year. In the second year, it would be very important to make a change to the procedural laws and to change the relationship between courts and other state bodies, to significantly improve and change the current system of passing the judicial exam, and to significantly increase the work to improve the expertise of the judicial staff we have at our disposal today. That takes time. From what was in the first year, I think there's something we haven't done enough or haven't done at all, which is to improve the material position of the judge. That's the problem. However, the proposal that lies ahead of you is a second major procedure and, in my view, a very good procedure towards setting up more responsible and better presidents than those who have been so far. When we talk about the work of the Justice and Administration Committee itself, whose member I am, then it is that the opposition parties, who are involved in this work, did not have any objections to the human resources that are ahead of you. So it's not that we boast that they agree with us, but that it's only natural for opposition parties to point out the shortcomings and failures that would be found there. That's not what happened. That confirms our belief that these personnel solutions are good. So, personally, I stand behind the fact that these personnel solutions are good. There's one flaw that's been pointed out. I just need to draw your attention to that. So, what Mr. Tom Nikolic has challenged, there is a correction. You were supposed to get that correction from professional services. So it's not about the Justice and Administration Committee. There's a correction to exactly what you're pointing at. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Correction is only in Vienna and Zrenjanin. ) There is a correction for Vienna and Zrenjanin. When you talk about being elected judge of that court, well for the president, that's the legal solution. The President of the Court is elected by the judges of that court. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Must first become a judge. ) This is point A, point B. (President: Stop the dialogue.) It's a perfectly normal procedure. So it's perfectly normal for you to first choose someone as judge of that court, then for the president of that court. Actually, there's nothing controversial about it. What I'd like to say and where I really see the difference between our work and our previous work, it's precisely on the case of the proposal that you have before you today, to resolve Mrs. Aregina's judicial function. Namely, the proposal and the whole procedure that precedes it, established at the General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and here, gentlemen, we differ from our predecessors. They did so past the General Sessions of the Supreme Court of Serbia, and the decision of the General Session of the Supreme Court of Serbia is unanimous and they have proposed a resolution from the judicial post. I fully agree with those who have been saying that there are untapped statements by politicians regarding the work of the judicial authorities. There are such statements by DOS members, I don't hide it at all, but here for this speaker to call out a concrete investigative judge who does very complicated cases, it's a flagrant example of pressure and assaulting the independence and independence of judges and judicial functions. So it's a typical example of what can't be done and a real example of what a politician can't afford. So, when we notice that in others, it would not be too burning to notice it first, and it would be especially important not to give such statements after the congregation speaker. I think that the Justice and Administration Committee has a certain degree of personal responsibility, which we do not determine faster than we do. I think we're going to improve that part of the work in the next period and I think we're going to be working in a better and more thorough procedure over a further period. What we can definitely be proud of, and, if you will, of what I see as our ID according to the professional work of the public, it is precisely that our proposal to Mrs Leposava Karamarkovic is for the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia. That's our difference from the predecessors where you had Mr. Balsha Govedarica and the difference between us and the predecessors is that there's a proposal before you that Mrs. Aregina no longer be a judge. This is what we are different and what we see our own credibility in the eyes of the professional public, compared to those who were before us.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8680	The word is Mr. Seselj, then Mr. Obradovic. After Obradovic, the word is Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8681	The honourable MPs, thanks to the Minister of Justice and representatives of the Assembly Committee on Justice and Administration, have finally held a serious debate in this assembly on the situation in the judicial system and I therefore give them recognition, but they need some instruction, instruction or seminar. The judicial office and its performance have been unimpeached only in relation to the executive authority, the Government and the Ministers and the President of the Republic, of course. The politicians are not unimpeached. We politicians, especially us from the opposition, have both the right and the duty to criticise the work of officials of all branches of government, parliament and executive authorities, i.e. the government and the judiciary. It is our right and it is our duty, it is our role in the political system. The minister must not attack the judges, the minister must not press the judges, he must not give them orders, he must not interfere in the work of the court, and we politicians from opposition parties must intervene every time we notice the illegal behaviour of any judge. That's what you finally need to learn and treat it. You, Mr. President, have just warned Tomislav Nikolic and me, instead of warning a Justice Department official who throws people's MPs and makes some unpleasant faces. She can't possibly do that. For her, the messengers of the people are uncircumcised, and there is nothing to talk to them unless they ask for some communication. She's a clerk here, and that's how she's supposed to behave. This judicial system requires radical cuts. They cannot be done in this way by the Justice Committee. The Justice Committee here in the National Assembly should be the main, basic initiator of all resolutions and all appointments. We all know that's not the case, and we all know that this job is actually done by the Department of Justice. What else would the Justice Department officers be sitting in this session? Their presence is the greatest proof of how much justice the Ministry interferes in the work of the judicial system. Here they were supposed to be, I suppose, advisers to the Supreme Court, some district courts or the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office, to take appropriate notes, or to give the chairman of the Justice Committee appropriate information if he needs these data quickly, rather than the officials of the Justice Department. It is their duty to make sure that the court building has heating, that there is food in prisons, that judges receive salaries, etc., and not to interfere with human resources policy. Here, according to this proposal, we have a huge interference in human policy. If you really wanted the justice system to seduce order and judges and prosecutors who don't do their job in accordance with the law to be resolved, and to name those who are honorable, capable, responsible, honest, and who work without ideological interference, we would have entirely different names on all these proposals. Why, for example. As chairman of the Committee, Dragor Hiber did not think to propose to the National Assembly that Deputy Prosecutor of Zrenjanin be dismissed, Dragan Arsic? It has been proven that he received 100,000 marks in time to betray the Serbian Radical Party and leave with Glamocan. That's what the Glamocian testified about. You have come to this evidence, however, there is no initiative to replace Dragan Arsic. We used to know it and say it in public, we didn't have that kind of supportive evidence, and now you have it. Why didn't they come out with a proposal to remove the Arsic from the post of deputy public prosecutor. There are some that need to be changed as soon as possible, but you don't work on that archaic. For Arežina, former minister submitted the initiative, Jankovic. And you should know that. Batic continues with Jankovic's footsteps. Why Jankovic? Because he resented Arega's attitude about Galenika. I know of some other cases where Arežina wasn't doing the right thing, and I know about it, but in the Galenika case, she did, and there she broke some plans for Jankovic. Jankovic launched, before Vladan Batic came to this post, an initiative to resolve the president's post on October 9th, when he thought he was playing on your map, but I don't know why he failed and why he's not here now among your MPs, because many JULs have moved so collectively to DOS. In this case, the wisest thing would be to do is to make all resolutions and all appointments, except for the most urgent ones, until a new law on courts and judges is passed. The law was in preparation earlier in the last term. The first version we returned, we weren't happy with it, just us, the Serbian radicals. Then war broke out and another version never happened. Our judicial system must be established strictly in accordance with the constitutional principle of judicial independence, namely the strict separation of all three branches of government. Of course, although three branches of government are equal, legislative, executive and judicial, the legislation is a little more equal and can also be matched by members of the judicial and executive authorities as regards the legal conduct of their work. The Assembly can bring down the Government, the Assembly can resolve the holders of judicial functions, but there must be no connection between the government and the court, except that the Government is obliged to materially assist the courts and enable them on the material side to perform their judicial functions, rather than put them above the courts. We have a whole series of cases. Many have mentioned these examples so far, so I'm going to list some. For example, around these current political arrests -- judges have shown there that they are not at all independent of the executive power. They're arresting by order. Milosevic was arrested exclusively by the executive authority's order, the procedure is being conducted conducted against him. People who found themselves in Milosevic's residence as well. Dragoljub Milanovic has been arrested (I don't know if there's anything else for him) on the charge that he is responsible for the deaths of people in the state television building, which is amazing. When the Supreme Court reached a solution to his release, you of the Dossow parties remembered your demands to be arrested again. It was political pressure on the judiciary, and here we go again. I'm not going to go into any other of his guilt, I just know he's not guilty of death in the building television. He can't answer for it, and you, on the other hand, here's the one who ordered the bombing you receive with all the honors. We have a lot of other examples. We also have the interference of the executive, the exercise of judicial functions. Look at Dusan Mihajlovic's behavior. Look, he's saying the police are leading the investigation. Guys, he keeps saying the police are in charge of the investigation, and the investigation can only be conducted by the court. The police are involved in data collection, information talks. The officer is not an investigative judge, the investigation is conducted only by an investigative judge, and he delivers statements. Investigations are conducted only by the police on the orders of an investigative judge and investigations cannot be conducted on the orders of the interior minister. But you don't know that. Why don't you learn? You should learn and someone from the government should once declare, perhaps Vladan Batic, as justice minister, perhaps he is the most competent, how can the Supreme Court confirm the minister's decision to abolish the preparatory act? The preparatory act is like the draft law, which the Constitutional Court would have abolished. It happened in the judicial system under the leadership of Leposava Karamarkovic, and you continue to swear on her expertise, her objectivity. She's not an expert, but she is obedient. You've affirmed that principle of obedience in the judiciary. You're terrified of all the judges, all the prosecutors, there's never been so much fear in the courts. I've often been hanging out with judges, with prosecutors, with lawyers, for twenty years I've been constantly in various courts. Vladan Batic may have been an anti-communist, but it was not known and nowhere to be heard. I've been through these courts all the time. You know, there have been various situations in these courts, but as much fear as it is now in the judicial system, it never has been.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8682	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8683	Judges and prosecutors like they're afraid someone's gonna shoot them if they don't do something or do it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8684	Did you hear me, if you didn't hear me say it again: time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8685	I heard, I heard.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8686	Great, you don't always hear. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8687	Mr. Seselj, as a crown proof of the influence of the executive authority on parliament, serves the fact that the ladies present here are supposed to be the officers of the Justice Department. No, Mr. Seselj, you've lied to the parliament and the citizens following this transmission again. No one here has been an official of the Justice Department since I was a minister of justice in this building. Why are you making a lie? These are officials of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. So, again some trivial fraud, delusions in power, what's that for?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8688	The word is made by MP Zarko Obradovic, and then by MP Dragan Marsican.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8689	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, fellow MPs, respected members of the government, at the start of only one sentence on the Socialist position on the judiciary committee. We were against it, not for the resolution of judicial officials, so we were against that motion for resolution. When it comes to selecting new judges, we have assessed that the good part of these proposals is good quality and for these reasons we did not want to be against it. The situation in Serbia's judiciary is bad and it is much worse than can be seen, especially with regard to the views on the independent status of the judiciary, expressed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The judiciary isn't independent yet. The cause of that is more, of which I will mention only some. Since the formation of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, members of the government or at least one good part, have expressed their public desire to place the judiciary in the role of the executive authority's intention. Some members of the government, not only had their proposals for leadership in the judiciary and the prosecution, and this was made available through the press, but directly influenced their public appearances by the prosecution and the ongoing investigation of the person, most often from the SPS circle. This interference of the executive authority in the work of the judiciary has never been recorded before. There's so much more absurd thesis, which we've heard, that it was a feature to the government before the DOS arrived. Who has heard earlier that one of the ministers, let alone the Prime Minister, is giving information about the course of criminal proceedings against individuals, or that he publicly announces who will and when he is arrested. Who heard that the justice minister, who is not currently in the O.R., is commenting on the court's decisions and announcing their audit. While such interference by the executive authorities in the work of the judicial and prosecutorial authorities is present, it is not possible to even consider the fundamental independence of the judiciary. The work of the judicial authorities absolutely completes the assessment of the poor situation in the judiciary. Certain items, i.e. their content, appear on the pages of the yellow press, without the knowledge of the courts. According to our knowledge, and under the pressure of the executive authority, even the Institute is being detained against constitutional restrictions of evil use. The detention process is easily reached and has been unwarranted for a long time according to a specific category of political inexperience. According to us, all the prosecution witnesses in the motion against the president of our party, Slobodan Milosevic, were questioned, and he is still in custody. The independence of the judiciary itself speaks sufficiently of the fact that the press in recent months has been full of writings on disputes within the ruling DOS, on human rights solutions in the judiciary. So, on the one hand, there is always talk of an independent judiciary, and on the other hand, it is very directly decided by the party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8690	Mr. Obradic, please begin the debate on the subject. It's not a topic - the comments of newspaper articles on the situation in the judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8691	Here, the president of the assembly says the choice of legal holders is not a matter of justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8692	No, it's not that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8693	Nor is the assessment of the situation in the judiciary, something that affects the work of judicial officials. These are the two causal consequences of things. With regard to the resolution of certain presidents of the courts, that is, the reasons we heard on the board -- the reasons that are stated are through one general assessment, without sufficient specificity for all the presidents of the courts and not entering enough in each case individually. It's bad for itself, because all judges are practically unjustly pushed into the same basket. For this reason, we have been against a judge's discharge and we will take such a stand in voting, and we will refrain from selecting new holders of judicial functions, especially for the reasons I have cited and the arguments we have heard at this session. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8694	The word is made by MP Dragan Marsican, followed by MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8695	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8696	I'm reporting for the word just to remove certain doubts that may have been opened in today's session, because on many occasions, in different ways, the issue of the existence of the Constitutional Court is open. I find it entirely justified that the National Assembly still had no choice of judges of the Constitutional Court and indeed there are all the objections that the serious state cannot be this long without the Constitutional Court, which must function. It is also fully pointed out that the National Assembly is proposing to the President of the Republic, to make a decision, to name candidates for members of the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Serbia. On several occasions, the President of the Republic's willingness to consult with the assembly majority has been shown and to propose those names and candidates. However, things have stalled and, frankly, I mean, things have stalled on the side of the congregation's majority.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8697	Thank you. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8698	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there is no government representative, the way in which the Government of the Republic of Serbia, instead of the parliamentary majority, changes the agenda of the National Assembly, seems to me enough to talk about how relations between the executive and legislative authorities are. And in the proposal for a discharge and appointed new holders of judicial functions, it is also a clear attitude towards the judicial authority, which should represent some kind of third authority. In democratic countries, legislative, judicial and executive authorities should be realistically independent, but even if there are, of course, certain types of so-called. the brake and balance between all three levels, as well as the principle of non-mixing, above all, the executive authorities in the work of the holders of judicial functions. In our country, that's not the case and it's not from today. It's not even since eight months ago, or as you like to call it -- from October 5th, it means the moment the DOS took over. It's from an earlier case in this country. That was also the case at a time when left-wing parties controlled the judiciary in our country. I'll remind you, speaking of certain things today, that Professor Vojislav Seselj was arrested and sentenced to four months in prison, sentenced to the maintenance of that sentence, and now I'm going to tell you what was written in the dissent, i.e. the sentence of the solution. It is -- it pushed the table away and intended to physically attack Radoman Bozovic. So that's the solution that was made in the misdemeanour procedure. Under the direct orders of the executive authority, those people were appointed in the law enforcement authorities. That's not new, then. It's not even weird. But what has been happening since that new November 29th, of that new October 5th, is something beyond what even happened in the earlier period. Because there used to be some kind of arbitration, some kind of widest discretionary rights and powers given to the representatives of the executive authority, which they passed on to the holders of judicial functions. It's never been expressed like today. I'm going to give a few concrete examples, and then I'm going to try to say something about it, as well as the concrete solutions that we've received today, first of all given the fact that today we're getting ready for the law on salaries in state authorities and public services, and not for this proposal that happened to come on the agenda. How can you talk about the non-mixing of the executive authorities in the judiciary of the Republic of Serbia, if you have a Prime Minister who says yes, I know who the killer is. The killer is Rade Markovic. Then what are we talking about in this country? So, I don't know what it is or how Rade Markovic was doing. I'm not someone who has any friendly relationship with him or party, like people from left-wing parties. No one can say someone killed someone if the verdict has not been confirmed, and no one has even been charged. You need to know that before you throw that away. That's the kind of thing you need to know, not that the Prime Minister is saying-- I know that this killer is, and this guy denies it, and the court didn't even file a case. The procedure doesn't go at all. Then what are we talking about in this country? These are political qualifications, you throwing me out of place, whether someone is a NATO traitor or something else. That's what politicians can use and that's what they can use. The question is whether anyone likes it or not, it's a matter of his political choice. But this is something no one can do and can never afford. Then how can a judge judge judge judge after that? Under what pressure? Will he know that after that, he will never be able to be a judge again, because he resented the Prime Minister. Because the Prime Minister made a verdict before the court. Get anyone out of the DOS majority and say this isn't true. None of you will get out. Because it's true. Because it's a fact. When we talk about these pressures on the judiciary, there's something that's totally amazing. He was released by the decision of the competent authority, from Dragoljub Milanovic's detention facility. He was charged, or investigated for suspicion that he knew the RTS building would be bombed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8699	Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8700	I'm talking about the subject. Listen to me carefully, you'll understand I'm talking about the subject. I am talking about what was written in the very explanation of such a proposal for the vote, appointment and resolution of representatives of judicial functions. And then the same night on national television, when the decision of the state authority was released from custody, the programme was interrupted and the worst, most terrible pressure on the judicial authorities, on the entire public -- well, for God's sake, could have been released from custody. So, who are these people? Who's the editor of that TV? Are these normal people? What are these people doing? What does that mean? Come on. What are you throwing at? Would you like to swear? Get out of here, and get out of here, if you've got the guts. Don't throw it away right now. Or say it anywhere else. I doubt you'll have the guts and courage to say something like that there, but the truth affects you, the truth hurts you. According to Minister Batic -- it was a difficult position, 200 marks were paid by the holders of judicial functions. It is heavy, and today they may have 300, I don't know, but with those 300 marks they live three times as hard and worse and three times less things they can buy than they could with 200 marks. It's even worse their position. I'll give you an example, since we haven't had enough time to get acquainted with individual solutions, we don't know how to check them, as Mr. Ivkovic said. He says we checked them out. I don't know what secret organs or organizations he can check it through. We don't know how we could check it out, what any of them were doing, but I have to give an example. When it comes to the fact that the best placed on these functions, an example in Valjevo, is for the District Court, based on this smut of information we could get, Duško Djukanovic, first could have been someone who was a better student, because if 32 years old a man studied, maybe someone who was more successful and in the short run had completed that university. And then you can see what's already been said here, what Mr. Seselj was talking about, that some who were appointed, as judges of the municipal court, and this man was only three years old, you can check it out in the data that we got, just three years ago, the judge of the municipal court, and suddenly he's being placed as the president of the county court. Well, I don't suppose, although I don't know exactly who it's about, I don't know a man, but there wasn't anyone who had a better biography, someone that people could talk about better, that the facts were saying more than this data. I would say one more thing - that the judiciary in our country is not only not departified, such as the DOS promise of the ruling majority, but there have never been any more political debates on who will be placed, how these judicial authorities will function, how it will affect certain proceedings against certain people. I don't think Serbia needs it, and it seems to me that in the future we need to get rid of it as soon as possible and as quickly as possible. How much politics is directly involved, show these decisions of the Court of Commerce, related to the Post Office, where you obviously have a conflict of two concepts, and now we all act silly in this room, one is the concept of Zoran Djindjic, his judge, the other is the concept of Mladjan Dinkic or Vojislav Kostunica. And everybody knows what it's all about, we just pretend to be ignorant, we all act naive, like we don't know what it's about. Now, he is already completely independent of his work and, by law, the Constitution, according to all legal acts, which must be served in the performance of this function, will act. No, he will act as he, who put him there, which is Zoran Djindjic, the Prime Minister, will order him to do. That's the fundamental difference between what you're pleading for, what you're trying to talk about, and what's really going on. As for some inquisition procedures, which were mentioned here -- there's never been as many inquisition procedures as it is today, and they've never been run by so many newspapers, televisions, radio stations, as it is today. There have never been so many procedures in Serbia, mounted, and directed, in the worst possible way. You're in a position, when you're talking about having a president of the municipal court (I was talking about it, it's the Ivopstin Court), who filed a criminal complaint against the president of the SRS, because the mother of the deceased son, the only one, took out the painting and insulted a journalist who had previously offended her. And that's why the president of the SRS is responsible, and he's filing criminal charges against him. Then what are we talking about? So what's this country about? And you will bear it, and you will say: a criminal report has been filed; a certain man cannot perform a certain judicial function because a criminal report has been filed against him. So who knows how many criminal charges there are against certain people, in this way, in the worst possible way? There's something else I wanted to say to Vlad Batic, which he knows, but since he's not here, I'll say it much shorter than I thought. Since he's always saying something, talking and making up something about Croats, he's always trying to be funny, so I just want to say one thing to him -- that people from his party know it too well, and everyone else, that he doesn't do such things, because the worst possible atmosphere thus introduces him into this assembly, and that they don't tell the MPs of the SRS. My father's completely by accident. My whole family's been killed by the Ustashas. Croatians stood up, if that means anything to anyone. And in this war, all of our houses were Vucica, because they were one of the most respected Serbian families, all burned down by Ustashas. And to break up with that story and Vladan Batic, and every other one of you, who thinks he's very smart - that with such nonsense he comes out, and that you never think of anyone again. If you have arguments, come out, fight the radicals, tell us all the worst. But in such a way that you fight politically and think that you are smart about it, it seems to me that in the Serbian people you will no longer be able to do so. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8701	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8702	Mr. President of the National Assembly, ladies and gentlemen, MPs, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, preparing for a debate on this subject, I am also thinking of saying something about the work of the Ministry of Justice and Minister Batic, to say something about the state of the judiciary, and about some issues that may be causal to the names and resolutions, and since Mr. President has been persistently warning all fellow Members that we are sticking to the subject, I do not like to be reminded again and I will not give him the opportunity, but I will say the following - about the work or dissatisfaction of Minister Batic, in fulfilling the role of justice minister and local self-government, we spoke at the previous session. The SPS parliamentary group, with this in mind, expressed its opinion and assessments, including with regard to staffing, and what I can now say, is that, to remind only one piece of information, that, when voting on the confidence of Minister Batic, the same minister, Mr Batic, received only 84 votes, so barely a third of parliament, and now let him see how he will exercise his function, with this burden and this kind of support he has. Secondly, when it comes to the overall situation in the judiciary, you will obviously only now say that this is not a topic, I suppose (in fact, I am not an expert in this area), I do not know how parliament is informed and how it discusses the work of the judiciary and the situation in the judicial bodies, whether this is what the Supreme Court informs parliament or not, there is likely to be an opportunity for us to discuss it. When it comes to what is on the agenda today, therefore, proposals for resolving the duties of officials in the courts of general jurisdiction and resolution and others, I want to say something, no matter how you see it, observed and commented, as a man, as a socialist, as a MP of the SPS. In my professional work and in political work, I have always advocated constitutionality, for legality, for equality of all citizens according to the law and according to the Constitution, and I also think that what the new government is doing now, or most of this Parliament, and otherwise in the executive government, should also stick to it, because they have promised it. I am saying this because it can always be asked whether the candidates who are proposed for these functions are at the level of what we can trust to have them at the level of respect for the constitutionality and legality and equality of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia, when it comes to justice or justice. I stood up for it, and we stood up for it, and that's what you're saying, for an independent judiciary, based on the legal certainty of all citizens of the Republic of Serbia and the SRJ, if you will. Do we have an independent judiciary - obviously we intend to have it, but the examples my colleagues spoke of and mentioned in this regard by the president of our party, Mr Slobodan Milosevic, and others, who have been arrested and who are being held in prison, and there is no cover for it - and that it is certainly the presence of an independent judiciary. Thirdly, I fully agree and advocate, and this is what our MP group and I support, to change, to replace those who are incompetent, therefore, officials or presidents of courts, those who are irresponsible, those who are unsustainable, and not those who are partyly inadequate. I'm not sure that in those examples that we're talking about today there are also those candidates who belong to these last ones I mentioned, unsuitable, not irresponsible and incompetent and unsettled. Fourthly, I've always stood up for it, and I think we should all stand up for it, to be elected president, from municipal courts, to Supreme Court president, capable, responsible professionals, no career stains, not to be similar, mostly party. I'm not sure the proposals we have today by our Committee have more similar ones than they are capable of, etc. For example, in the Municipality of Mladenovac (I am a national MP from Mladenec and for the City of Belgrade) the President of the Municipality Court in Mladenov, Mr Nikola Markovic, is proposed under point 1. In an explanation (it is generally) it is said, among other things, that the president may be relieved of his duties when his term of office expires or if his irresponsibility in the execution of cases in court is established. It is said that the analysis of the work of the courts on our territory found that the court's impunity is about 86%, disrespect for the rules of procedure 91%, and failures and irregularities are 77%. I ask the promoter - which group includes the President of the Municipality Court in Mladenov, Mr Nikola Markovic, whether his mandate is expired, whether he is inadmissible, whether he is unfair or not respecting the court's rules of procedure. Lastly, it was proposed for the President of the Municipality Court in Mladenov, namely Ms Ljiljana Brkic. I have no particular reason to be neither against it. We will plead as a parliamentary group as our president has said. I understand that the Justice Department has called a competition and that's the way it should be. I understand that the College of Judges, Municipality of Mladenovac, I assume he gave consent and support, because it couldn't be that way. I ask the promoter, what does this mean, but not 3. Also, all candidates have received opinions from the relevant authorities and organisations on their reputation for performing their judicial functions, which they enjoy in the environment they live in. Which are the organizations, which the authorities and how they gave that assessment and support. Seven minutes and 15 seconds, thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8703	The People's Messenger Natasa Jovanovic has the word, and after her, the People's Messenger Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8704	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, a request like this before the start of today's session of the National Assembly, directed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on the urgency of discharge and appointment of judges, so the election of judges, the president of municipal and district courts, suggests that the government is in one already recognizable way playing with the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as the predecessors here put it. The pressure exerted on MPs by the executive power in Serbia since the constitution of the new DOS government has already been seen. Then how will the resolute minister himself and anyone from the majority coalition, so-called. DOS to convince us that there is no pressure on municipal and district courts in the election and appointment of proposed candidates. It would really be unserious if we, the MPs of the SRS, and we received a proposal from the Committee on Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia to appoint judges and president of the courts, to declare ourselves about candidates individually, except for some of whom we have reliable information that these are not people of high moral quality, as should be those for whom functions are proposed today. However, it is indicative and it really falls into our eyes here, and above all those who have felt what the DOS regime is doing in Serbia and how it is, all that Justice Minister Vladan Batic said. He said criteria for selecting judicial holders are described in the government's proposal. The data is a certain thought and that he does not, apparently, have any effect on all of it. If there were no people who can testify about it, people who talk about it publicly, people who speak to us to the representatives of the people, to the MPs in the environments we live in, then you might say he's right. However, as before, Vladan Batic was wrong, he deceived the entire public in this case. You know very well that three months ago, in the appointment of Leposava Karamarkovic as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia, he said he was soon following the appointment of the new president of municipal and district courts to prepare it. And that bid, ladies and gentlemen, has lasted a long time in many cities in Serbia, for several months now, so that we would suddenly get this proposal and the last item of the agenda, the government, or most of us in the Assembly, has changed to the second item of the agenda. I know that, for the simple reason that today, among others, the President of the Kragujevac District Court. A few months ago, a completely different candidate was in play for this so responsible judicial role and function in our country's judicial system. We need to know that some members of the DOS coalition made public statements at local press conferences. One of the people, who is one of the members of the DOS coalition, mentioned a completely different name for this place two months ago, auctioning and running through Batic's system and the DOS politbioro system, and it was a female candidate. Today, we have Mr. Tomic, who is proposed to be the president of the district court. On the other hand, Professor Vojislav Seselj warned of a fact that is irrefutable here, when some people, also by the decision of DOS politician, which is quite obvious, are first named as judges, and then immediately, at the same time as the presidents of the municipal court. Tell me where it is possible and where these people's colleges and these judges are held in a competent municipal court or in a district court, about this candidate as president. I think it's obvious to everyone that there are, above all, party memberships in the election or pressure from individual members of the DOS coalition. First of all, from the ranks of the political party, if it can be called that, led by Mr Batic. The criteria, although he swears he was never a communist, are, in principle, the example of Joseph Broz, one of the greatest communist dictators, because the half-tronship, the loathing, all that he performs with his world in Serbia, all that is required of people who need to come to directorial and other state responsible functions is what characterizes this government, as well as the decision-making method in a politburo called DOS. That I'm right, it also says that data I made yesterday based on writing a weekly press in Belgrade, that the interior minister himself said that at the session of this so-called so-called so-called. That is how the DOS Presidency decides. So... (President: Please return to the topic, please. )......................................................................................................... It is not about moral criteria, expertise, but something else, which corresponds to the majority coalition and which will later have negative consequences throughout the judiciary. The minister himself has made many lies about how he works and participates, primarily Serbian radicals, in the exercise of power. He was climbing himself...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8705	We're not talking about it at all, Mrs. Jovanovic, please move on to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8706	I'm talking about the choice of judges, president of municipal and county...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8707	What does participation have to do with what Mr Batic says, the participation of radicals in the government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8708	I'm saying it has something to do with it, and if you look back at the previous work of those judges, these municipal and county courts. Let me do one parallel and tell you what the truth is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8709	You have many broad parallels, please return to subject, you have shifted too much, please slow down, to return to topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8710	As for the election of such responsible judicial functions, I will remind you of the fact that today Minister Batic, speaking of the fate of those people who will be relieved of the position of the president of municipal or district courts, said none of them would be left without a job. Actually, they'll stay in the judge's name. That's not true, because we have a notice that Milena Aregina, who, here by the majority DOS coalition, has already been convicted of something suspected of having committed, as a criminal act, has been ruled by the Committee and said that she can no longer be a judge. Speaking of her guilt, you forgot to mention only one very important fact, which is that the election results of September last year, both for the election of the president and for the election of federal MPs, could not be proven without the record of the country's most organised political party, the SRS. Speaking of criteria for selecting judicial holders, it has been shown that only the Minister and other DOS representatives themselves are declared Democrats and as people who do not want to interfere in these matters. That's really not true, because if that were the case, we would have had the Constitutional Court of Serbia by now, and you yourself, Mr. President, said that there's something going on in that politburo, in that majority coalition DOS, and that that's why we don't have a Constitutional Court. It is obvious that those who, in such an illegal, anti-constitutional manner of judgment, such as that in the case of the illegal distance of Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law in Belgrade, by all by the mental and intellectual characteristics of the well-known minister of education, Gaš Knezevic, remains unconstitutional. We don't have a Constitutional Court of Serbia and the question is when we'll have it because something in the DOS coalition is stinging, which you yourself have admitted. (President: How time flies. It's been 10 minutes. Time's up. ) I think there will be a practice that is clearly back 10 months. So, a system of work that hasn't been recorded yet in Broz's time, that judges have to be alike, that they have to join the Judges' Society and that they have to attend a teaching center for improving legal studies, which is one of the co-ordinators -- which is otherwise funded by Soros Fund, etc. The Open Society Fund -- it was Leposava Karamarkovic herself. These people will in no way be able to stand alone, holding to high ethical, and legal standards, to perform a responsible judicial function, but will constantly be under pressure, as will the current V.D. President of the Court of Commerce, Mr. Kljajevic, who himself does not know whether to act on the highest moral principles, but rather, when it was seen in the case of the Post Office, as ordered by the Politburo Central Committee of the DOS. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8711	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him, the People's Messenger Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8712	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, based on Article 48. The court law, the procedure for resolution, is being initiated by the president of Serbia's Supreme Court. The Committee for the Justice of the Republic of Serbia is competent to initiate proceedings only for the resolution of the Supreme Court president. However, an initiative to initiate the court's discharge procedure can be filed: the president of the court in question, a session of all judges of the court, the president of the court-general and the minister of justice. However, the initiative in writing must be delivered to the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, in order for the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia to establish the reasons for the Court of Justice's termination, while at the same time referring to the termination of the office of the President of the Court. This means that the reasons why the President of the Court's duties are to be resolved must be laid down before the term of office to which they have been elected for four years has expired. The Supreme Court must, in its explanation, determine whether the judge or the President of the Court has served as an elder of the authority, i.e. The President of the Court, by law or not, did he perform that function on an up-to-date, efficient and correct basis or not? When the Supreme Court determines these facts, then the Supreme Court delivers a proposal and initiates proceedings before the Committee on Justice of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. Then the Serbian Parliament decides after all. The proposal and the material that we have received is resolved, as we can see, before 21 of the judicial authorities expires, and, in the explanation, the Proposer calls for Article 29. However, it does not say a single word as to whether the relevant and decisive facts for the resolution of the president of the municipal or county, i.e. the Supreme Court or the Court of First Instance have been established. There's not a word. The question is then seriously raised and remains questionable about what motives were and what reasons were for resolving the duties of the president of the courts, which are in the proposal before the MPs. All of this had to be known to the MPs. It cannot be said that he considered the initiative, I mean the Committee on Justice, the Ministry of Justice and the local self-government to resolve the president of the courts before the term of office expires. What about the Supreme Court now, as the highest court in the Republic of Serbia? Why is the basic principle of the division of power being violated here? Why is it that the Supreme Court, or the Court of Justice, is suppressed and placed on the margins and is not at all wondering who will come to the court, who will be resolved and who of the elders will be removed from the office of the Elder of the Authority? I don't have enough reason to say that there was no basis for some court presidents to settle before the time was up. And I can't say the other one either. However, I could if there were evidence of this, and there is no evidence for any of the elders of judicial functions that are resolved before time, so I cannot agree with this kind of resolution, nor with the choice, for the simple reason that I attach great importance to the judiciary and to the judicial authorities. In Article 96. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised that courts and judges are independent in their work. In Article 101. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia is normised that the judge cannot be against his will unless he has committed a criminal act, when he carries out an unequivocally and unwittingly a judicial function or permanently loses his capacity to perform judicial functions. Gentlemen People's MPs, do we possess any evidence regarding these constitutional provisions that bind everyone in this country, as the highest legal act, as a defense for all possible objections to the legal and constitutional order? Article 102 states that Serbia's Supreme Court is the highest court in the Republic, as well as the role of the Supreme Court in the Republic of Serbia in the election of these future presidents of the courts and who was the President of the Supreme Court and the General Session of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia, in determining the reason for the termination of the office of judicial authorities, or the elder of the judicial authorities or the permanent termination of the judicial office. We don't have any proof of that here. It's standardized in Article 48. The law on courts is also provided for in Article 29(3). Court law. It is also not acceptable for a district court president to be elected by a municipal court judge while at the same time elected as the president of the district court. The Constitution can't do that. The Courts Act can't do that. For what? The judge of the municipal court who is proposed as judge of the district court must first take an oath in this National Assembly to become the first judge of the district court, and at that session he cannot take an oath twice, so in the next session, if it is determined that he meets the conditions, he will also be appointed president. The question arises, from a professional point of view is illogical, because we have 29 district courts in the Republic of Serbia and in every district court you have 15 to 40, or 50 judges in the district court. Imagine now that you are handling one judicial authority with 40 judges of the district court and now the politicians on the side are proposing and saying, we suggest you accept this, we now propose to you as the president of the district court judge of the municipal court who has two or three years of working experience in the affairs of the judiciary. Then you might think that this man will enjoy his reputation and be accepted by the district court's collective when someone from the lower court comes to him, for the president of the court. It could once have been, in the communist era. Fadil Hoxha used to be a judge, he didn't even have a judicial exam. There were many of them who were judges of the Supreme Court. However, in this time of my deep conviction, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it is not acceptable to violate the Constitution, it is not acceptable to violate the Law on Courts. I'm in favour of judicial reform. I have had the opportunity to know during the years of judicial authorities and there has never been a greater need for reform in the judiciary than at this point, but I have expected, in depth and in width, one full reform, as well as that it is regulated by a certain law, that the judiciary really rises to a higher level and that we do not have cases where our litigation is conducted in courts and for 30 years, that citizens are waiting for someone to exercise their right for years and some die and do not have the opportunity to realize and to exercise their basic human and civil rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8713	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8714	I'm done, Mr. President. The position of the judiciary today is very difficult and we cannot accept this relationship has to do with the judiciary. I believe that the status and position of the holders of judicial functions must be materially secured from both the President of the Court and the Judges to demand greater responsibility. There's one thing, if you'll let me finish. I will point out that in the last few months, there has been a very unfavourable situation in the bodies of the judiciary. One expectation, one uncertainty who will remain a judge, who will remain a prosecutor, who will be the judge's president, dozens of parties bid and cheer and propose. I think the National Assembly and the Justice Committee must take matters into their own hands with the Supreme Court, and in the future arrange the judiciary in the Republic of Serbia and raise it to a higher level.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8715	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic, followed by the MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8716	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen, it is really very difficult for me, given that I have been preparing for a discussion on the Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services, which is on the agenda of this assembly for the second time, and today it is also a very important issue for this country. It is truly inappropriate for me from the government to be more concerned about the appointment of elders of district and municipal courts than about the material state of justice and state administration, as well as public services. I also think that this material, which we have received today, is very difficult to look at and look at, and even more difficult to verify the data and what decisions are being made. I just have to say that, indeed, as far as the decision on the discharge of the duties of the courts of general jurisdiction is concerned, I do not know for what reasons, and especially as it is written, that the analysis of the work of the courts in the territory of the Republic, which was presented to the Committee by the Minister of Justice and the local self-government, led to the fact that the impunity of the work of certain courts is about 86%, the disrespect of the Rules of Procedure around 91%, and that there are errors and irregularities in determining defenders under official duty. This also directly speaks of the difficult situation in the judiciary, and it also goes in favour of changing the agenda, which is today accepted, that the judiciary is extended by the executive authority and that Mr Batic is preparing something, something is in a hurry. It's probably the continuation of yesterday's session when Mr. Vuk Obradovic was relieved. A certain job has been completed, and this needs to be done and carried out by the minister of justice, and he's probably in a hurry somewhere after this. As far as the motion for these decisions on the election of judges and presidents of district and municipal courts is concerned, I must say that indeed this proposal was made by the political council of the DOS, at least as far as Valjev is concerned. There were two reasons why they chose to and against. The first reason is that Mr Djukanovic, who was proposed here, received previous power in the municipal court. As a judge of the municipal court, he was appointed by the previous authorities, and the other thing is that, according to their knowledge, he did not meet the conditions regarding the work experience, given that he spent only four years as a judge of the Municipality's court in Valjevo. I can also say that the situation in the judiciary is never harder than our people would have said since the raven blacked out. It's really hard at this point that Mr. Minister is not in favour of improving the situation in our judiciary and the state administration, but rather for one big hack and cleaning. Indeed, at this point I can remember October 5th when 17 judges of 30 went out on the street and supported the new government. What it's like to them now that most of them have applied here for the president of the county or municipal court, and someone else has come instead. Since the municipal court judges, six judges have applied for the post of district court president. I can say that as far as the proposal is concerned, this argument states that Mr. Djukanovic was born in 1960, completed Law School at 31st year, and I think there is one valid reason for that, it is an exceptional athlete, and the judicial exam was passed in 1995, and in 1997 he was appointed judge of the municipal court. Indeed, with such proposals, we come to an exceptional division of the judge's staff, given that the judges are no longer independent at this point, and that our judiciary is not independent, because it is up to them that only the carriages prescribe the solution and who will make the decisions, and our judiciary is also independent, because it is not asking for anything, nor deciding what. I think it's one big truth that's pointed out here. It is, therefore, a clean-party host of DOS's politburo, and that these negotiations and talks certainly depend on whose word they will ultimately overcome. I think that at this point this issue should be seriously discussed, that there are more and more important things, and that once again it is necessary to examine all the tasks that are contained in the documents, the biography and the competition material delivered, and the other reasons for each man, the judge, the president of the court, who is relieved of his duties before the term of office expires. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8717	Thank you. The word has the People's MP Rajko Baralic, and let him prepare for the discussion Mr. Bosko Ristic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8718	I don't need a quorum with Mrs. Natasha. Fellow Members and colleagues, MPs, esteemed journalists, there are issues on the agenda today that are of interest to each MP because each of us, apart from representing the interests of his constituents and the environment from which he comes, has some particular reasons why he is interested in human rights solutions in the judiciary being at the level of the judiciary itself. Here is missing, in this proposal we added for the appointment of new judges there is no list of those candidates who have applied, registered candidates by courts, and I don't know why there is for Novi Sad, Užice, Valjevo, and there is no such thing as, for example, for Čačak or some other district courts, or areas of county courts. I believe that the lack of this material, all MPs do not put themselves in the same position and cannot plead with the proposed candidates in the same way. However, we know that political authority in one country has a significant impact on human resources in the judiciary, and we do not need to dispute this at the DOS coalition, because it obviously does this to every government in the world, so why not do the DOS in Serbia as well. There are not enough elements here to plead on each of the individual solutions, but that is why we can plead on those personal solutions relating to the municipal courts of the places from which we come, or on the areas of the district courts. I will say that if the president of the municipal court in Cačka had to be relieved, Mr Milos Pavlovic, and the right to the DOS does not dispute, and a new man should be elected. At a press conference a few days ago, the Socialists in Cacak supported the proposal to elect Mr. Rade Banicicic as head of the Municipal Court in Cacca and have nothing to say about this man, not as a judge, nor as a citizen of Cacca. So today I will vote that Mr. Rade Banicic will be appointed, that is, elected President of the Municipal Court in Cacca. But I will not vote for Mr Dusan Dražević to be elected in Gornji Milanovac, the current judge of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac, because on those elements that are important to assess the work of a judge, Mr Draževic at the Municipality Court in Gornji Milanovac is the last place. It's the number of pending cases, and everything else that affects the quality of the trial. I do not dispute the right of local authorities in Gornji Milanovac or the DOS coalition to define itself precisely for Mr Draževic, but I am obliged here to say that on those elements available to anyone who has been dealing with this problem, according to the results it has achieved over the past few years, it is the last place. So it's a risk taken by the promoter and, of course, we're not going to argue with this proposal, but we're not going to vote for this proposal. Today, Mr Batic, minister of justice and local self-government, spoke of judges working in abnormal technical conditions, located etc. I don't know so much Serbia's judiciary as the housing and working conditions are concerned, but I want to say that in the area for which the County Court of Cacca is responsible, the county court's district court looks to me like American films, that for ten years now the most modern equipment and interior, and everything else necessary, exists for the smooth work of the judicial authority, that several years ago a new object of the law enforcement body has been in place, that there is a restaurant in all these facilities that can be lunched for 30 dinars. So, I don't know what it's like in Belgrade and I don't know what it's like in some other places, but for this area covered by the County Court in Chačka, the conditions that judges normally work and do their job, there are. As for the independent judiciary, I would like to quote Mr. Mladjan Dinkic, governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, who, staying several days ago in Cačka, among other things publicly called on the Prime Minister of the Republic of Serbia to have a significant impact on some of the judges in our Republic, and of course, apostrophe of the already mentioned judge Kljajevic here. It is indeed a precedent for one political decision to influence the introduction of temporary measures in the Postage Savings Office that serves 700,000 current accounts and which had a billion dinars on the account that day. So if something is promised in the election campaign, then consistency is the least expected of those who exercise power. The accusation made by Mr Dinkic is such a nature that it is difficult to disqualify both the prime minister of the Republic of Serbia and the independence of the judiciary as such. Also, I want to say a few things, in principle, because I don't know people, -- there really are a few solutions here where for the presidents of municipal courts or district courts, they propose and choose persons who were not elected before that in those courts as judges of the municipal or county court. It is perfectly logical that their president is elected from the civil court's order whenever possible. If, of course, for some particular reasons, this is not possible, then I understand what the promoters have done here, although I think that Mr Jojic, if I am not mistaken, has brought out a dilemma - whether in certain cases it is possible to choose as the president of the district court a person who was not before the judge of the district court and whether without an oath relating to the judges of the district court, he may become the president of the district court. But I think it's a matter of procedure. It will also personally be as decided by the people who are currently responsible for the exercise of power in Serbia. We will vote, me first of all, for the highest number of judges proposed. For some, of course, I won't for the reasons I've brought here. We expected this problem to be solved more comprehensively, that we would have all the presidents of the district courts here, and the public prosecutor's office. Like this, we're doing this thing on a partial basis. We expected, to be honest, that the debate on this item of the agenda would go a few days later, because it was the 11th point of the agenda, so I guess one number of MPs isn't ready enough to talk about it here today. There is no claim that the proposed candidates for the selection of these functions in the judiciary are not members of political parties. That's what we'll talk about when it's time to elect a public prosecutor. No one needs to impute what they're doing today. The judiciary will be independent of the extent to which those people we are choosing today are responsible for the judges and the presidents of the courts. I want to believe that they are responsible people, that this job will work in the best possible way, because there won't be much luck for anyone if anyone can influence the court and courts, no matter what their position is in politics or in the state today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8719	Here you go, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8720	Mr. President, Article 222(4) has been injured. Rules of Procedure. The National Assembly building, especially in front of the National Assembly, walks armed persons who do not belong to security that maintains order in the National Assembly. They even manifest the possession of weapons, challenging, especially towards the MPs of the SRS, and we have learned that they belong to the security of Justice Minister Vladan Batic. You pray as a man who is personally in charge and responsible for order in the building of the National Assembly that you examine the case and that you no longer allow anyone who does not belong to the service of order in the National Assembly to carry weapons in the building of the National Assembly. We will consider this an attack on the integrity of the MPs, who can belong to different parliamentary groups, but they must have all the rights, and especially should no one threaten them with weapons and thus endanger their right to represent in the Assembly those political views they wish to have. Secondly, under Article 80(2), I'd like to ask you to establish a quorum. It is uncomfortable to attend a whole day of debate in front of an empty hall and it is about the election of all the presidents of the district courts and almost all the presidents of the municipal courts in Serbia. The subject is much more important than the attention given to it by the MPs of the DOS. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8721	As far as armed faces are concerned, I can't say it either is or isn't. It will be checked and you will be informed. As for the quorum, we'll determine the quorum. I'm asking the MPs to set up their identification cards. (Cheese:you are gone, and you would like to rely on us. ) There is with you, either go out, or we should count ourselves (He speaks to the MPs of the SRS). We'll get out when you start counting. ) I ask the Service to count the MPs (SRS ambassadors leaving the O.R.). Thank you, Service, for the count. Here, we have a quorum. The word is from the People's MP Bosko Ristic. (Employer Seselj asks for a word by the Rules of Procedure) After him Dragan Colic, who is not present. According to the Rules of Procedure? Here you go. (Glasses - not present in the O.R.) )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8722	I've just counted and 109 MPs are present in the O.R. The DOS MP just pulled my card.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8723	Neither you nor you can make a circus out of a session. Mr. Seselj back to elementary school to learn the count, and you return Mr. Seselj's card, and get a little serious. The word has a folk MP, Bosko Ristic, the last reported Dragan Šormaz (retired).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8724	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, for 10 years our country has suffered the destruction of the state and the people because of the irresponsible authority that has mixed these three branches of government that were spoken of by previous debaters. There was no knowledge of what was executive, what was legislative, what was judicial authority. All in all, the main decisions, judicial, economic, any other nature were made in the centres of power, and not in the bodies and institutions that were competent under the Constitution and the law for it. In view of this situation, even the situation in the judiciary could not have been different than the general situation and the general state of society. The judiciary was independent, it was attended by judicial officials based on its party membership, based on the closeness with party officials, and what was worth, which was professionally, which was the pursuit of independence, efficiency in work, those people who tried under the law were forced to leave the judicial office and to seek its existence elsewhere. First of all, the lawyership was a haven for judges who couldn't find a place and their prosperity and continue their careers as judges of their careers in judicial institutions. We, as DOS, have promised citizens that we will make a fundamental change in society, both economically, legally, politically, and spiritually. One of the grounds for such change is both the rule of law and the equality of citizens before the law. In order to have that, we must have an independent judiciary, independent holders of judicial functions, independent primarily of political centres of power. Here some speakers are pushing for the depolitisation of the judiciary and imputing the new government, the democratic one, to wish to exercise full political control over the holders of judicial functions and over the judiciary in general. However, if you ask citizens who are involved in court proceedings, they will tell you that the changes in the judiciary are extremely slow. They expected, after democratic changes in society, that those who carried judicial functions who, in their opinion, went to party committees and who put the judiciary fully into office of their political programmes. We also remember in 1996, when the largest number of judicial officials, acting as president of election commissions, performed a flagrant end to the electoral will of citizens. Thanks to them, millions of citizens have gone to the streets of Serbia, won markets and sought justice through pressure, civil disobedience, and through the launch of numerous criminal proceedings, filing criminal charges, precisely against those holders of justice. I must say that Nisli's experience is also that the presidents of the election committees were the President of the District Court, the district attorney, then the bearers of other functions in the city, which were unscrupulous to end the electoral will of citizens, did the counterfeiting of election records and filed criminal charges against them, and was designated as the competent municipal court in Leskovac. Of these reports nothing happened, it's been four years, these people continue to perform their most judicial functions. The citizens of Nis are wondering -- did we fight for it, is it a democratic revolution, as some call it, are these democratic changes and do these people deserve to be the leaders of these judicial institutions? When we talk about the depolitisation of justice and judicial functions, we must first of all consider the fact that the holders of judicial functions depend on the parties of the previous regime. This is where the people who attack candidates' proposals for legal holders appeared, and say they are proposals from political parties that are now governmental in Serbia. I have to say, the same thing you advocated for party quotas in the judiciary. It is known that individual parties, which consisted of the previous regime, shared party quotas, and were also appointed by prosecutors and judges according to party quotas. It happens in Nis that the chairman of the District Committee of a Party became the judge of the District Court without having had a single day of experience in the judiciary. That's quite clear to you. I'm not going to tell the party, so I don't cause a replica, but you understand that and you know who it is. As for the second depolitical process, firstly, the parties belonging to the previous regime need to depolitise judicial functions. They should come out with lists of judges and prosecutors who are members, still current, of their parties. Only when they are depoliticising can they call for depoliticisation in the future, because no one is naive to give up influence on the most important institutions of the system, with the fact that there is still the influence of individual political centres of power. We are in favour of absolute depoliticalization, and that means we are in favour of depoliticalizing the function from the former, or the rest of the previous regime. When we talk about the situation in the judiciary, it's extremely bad. First of all, the judges were not independent, they were not independent, they entered the judiciary who did not deserve their personal relationship with the law, according to the Constitution, according to the most important institutions of the state and the system, to carry that judicial function. On the one hand, a large number of young and professional people have not had the opportunity to affirm themselves in these functions, because they did not want to join the parties of the previous regime. There have been frequent pressures, where the choice for individual judicial functions was conditioned by joining the party regime or by progressing according to the verticals in judicial institutions on the basis of whether or not a member of the party is in power. This time, at least as far as Nisa is concerned, the proposed candidate represents an image of expertise, quality and honesty, and such a person guarantees that the performance of the post will be performed independently of political structures. According to the knowledge we have, the proposed candidate for the president of the Municipal Court in Nis Ljiljana Misevic is not a member of any party and is not dependent on any political centre of power. Otherwise, Mrs Ljiljana Misevic showed great courage in 1996, when she broke away from the pressure of the regime at the time and sentenced 22 deputies to the then coalition "Together", regardless of the pressure she had from the head of the judiciary. We believe it is a guarantee that even in future work, it will be independent of all political centres of power, because it has shown this at the time of the most severe pressure on the judiciary. As far as the situation of the judiciary is concerned, I believe that the material status of the judge is extremely poor, the humane structure is not a good quality and it is necessary to enable young and professional people who are eager to be dependent only on the application of the law, who have their own personal integrity and who will guarantee the equality of citizens before the law, to be elected as leading judicial functions. Otherwise, the judiciary has not been immune from political pressures for the past ten years, and also in the earlier period, and because judges have been challenged by the right to join together and to create their own professional associations, such as the Independent Association of Judges, where they would discuss the quality of judges, exactly what is it that guarantees, what are the qualities of judges who guarantee and its quality of function? I hope that behind us, when certain justice ministers said that judges would have to judge on the basis of the patriotic commitment, at a time when patriotism meant belonging to one political option and threatened judges to bring judges from insides to certain places and to certain courts. Also, some justice ministers, at the advice of the judges, responded to the remarks of the judges that they are hard to live for, that the small salaries are the following - so you are not living on just your judicial salaries, are you also having other incomes? I hope that these times are behind us and that we will create a judicial system that will be independent of political centres, that people of integrity will come to our leading judicial functions, which will respect only the law and whose profession will be guaranteed that the laws will apply equally to all and that the rule of law will take place in our country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8725	As there are no more registered speakers, I conclude a unique search (Employer Bozidar Vujic is looking for a word). Now you're not here, you're not there, you've been called, you haven't been there, you're not here now. Mr. Vujic, you are not present, you have not been identified, you have not been identified. I'm concluding a unique search and we're moving on to a decision. I'm sorry, you can't play with the Assembly. Then you must regulate it in a different way (receives to MP Vujic). Lately, first of all, you weren't there, you weren't identified, you weren't in the O.R., you can't play with the Assembly, you can't play with the chairman. I am informing the MPs that the session of the Justice and Administration Committee is scheduled for 14 hours in the downstairs hall. I'm taking a break until 3:30. [[After break - 15.45.]] I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I find we have a quorum and we continue with the work of the Assembly. The People's MP, Mr Vujic, appears for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8727	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, the President of the Assembly has violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Articles 87, 92 and 93. Article 87 says: After the opening of the search for each agenda of the National Assembly, the right to receive the word is given by MPs in the order of registration, and the next attitude says that applications for the word are submitted after the opening of the search and can be submitted until its conclusion. Allow me to read to you Article 92, you will see the mutual link between the infringements of the Rules of Procedure: When it finds that there are no more applications for participation in the search, the President of the National Assembly concludes the search. The president of the National Assembly here only found that there were no more reports, because the secretary most likely suggested that there were no more registrations. By the way, he most likely suggested that there were no more reports of a principled search. But I have read to you the final point of view of Article 87, where it is said that applications can be submitted until its conclusion. Since I had not reported as a MP before, I had already advertised from the post, asking for a word, the president of the National Assembly had disobeyed the application from the post, believing that there were no more registered ballots on the table, that the principle search had been carried out and that the conclusion had taken place according to its findings. He has disobeyed the application from the post, and the MP has the right to apply from the post, because I have filed a properly registered ballot. Article 93, in its third position, says: The President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases (and the first position speaks of quorum) if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly. The president of the National Assembly two hours ago, before a permanent break for the National Assembly session until 15:30, interrupted the session about 13:45 and announced a break by 15:30. Probably, personally, considering I want to stage an incident for this speaker. I kept insisting, asking for the respect of members of 87 and 92. The Rules of Procedure, to get my word, because I wanted to participate in a principled debate. In addition, when determining the quorum, the president of the National Assembly did not give a break because he found that there was no quorum, he was also warned by his colleague, Srboljub Zivanovic, who showed the president of the National Assembly one by one card he had taken from empty places, to which MP Mr. Cirkovic reacted in the last row with ugly words and curses. It's the same MP who keeps after this speaker, when he advertises the violation of the Rules of Procedure, calls on Article 99, and now he personally deafens himself to the same attitude, because he spoke poorly and cursed Mr. Srboljub Zivanovic.... The president of the National Assembly did not warn Mr. Cirkovic, and it was found that in the last and last order, it began with the place where Mr. Pal Shandor sat, a dozen empty seats, with a dozen cards. I ask that the Assembly declare this because it is obvious that the President of the National Assembly has injured the Rules of Procedure both in Articles 87, 92 and 93.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8728	I'll try to answer one of the many remarks you've pointed out. First of all, what's the easiest thing to do, and that's the end of the session. I said why before the session seems to be interrupted before the time usual for the afternoon break, which you also know very well, is not decided by the National Assembly, but by the standard time in which the break is given. This was about 15 - 20 minutes earlier, and I said what was the reason, and I was authorized as president of the Assembly to give a break for the consultations that needed to be carried out during the session. As for giving my words, when I gave my word to the last registered speaker, I pointed it out and I met the MPs to give a word to the last registered MP. At the same time you were playing with identification cards, with your presence and not attending these sessions, you left the session, you took your identification card. You disrespected the Rules of Procedure. When you came back, you didn't identify yourself when you entered the O.R., as required by Article 113. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and you were not officially present in the O.R. at that time. You didn't want to give the quorum to the National Assembly, which is why you left the session. You can't play with the National Assembly. At the moment when the speakers were no longer registered, when I had already warned myself that I was giving the word to the last registered speaker, when no one, nor did you, applied for participation in the discussion, I realized that there were no more registered speakers, and what was the fact at that point. I ask the MPs to declare Mr Vujic's request that there has been a breach of the Rules of Procedure under Rule 87 and Article 92. For 33, against 123, the two abstentions, were not voted by 22, a total of 180 MPs. The replica is being reported by MP Zoran Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8729	Mr. President, I really don't have the habit of listening to the statements of some MPs because I simply lost hope of hearing something smart a long time ago. Someone mentioned some kind of sleep, (from the site Vojislav Seselj throws)... Mr. Seselj, please calm down. After all, we'll invite Mr Krapovic to finish the job. The job's just a start for now. So it's true that an unidentified individual has been digging into our MPs' benches and trying to take out the MP cards, but that's what he was prevented from doing. Otherwise, there are people who feel that the congregation speaker is the job of MPs. Of course I don't belong to that group. There are people who simply think they can say anything from this place. But there is also an uninformed public who trusts them. I'm talking to this uninformed public and I'm telling them, "Don't trust the people of the Serbian Radical Party."
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8730	The People's MP Vojislav Seselj appears for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8731	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the old philosophers of Aristotle, Plato, say even somewhere from Tales, through Dekart, Kant, to Nie and Shopenhower, felt that the appearance of man, facial features, sight, revealed soul and character. That modern science hasn't disproved yet. Even modern scientists are the theory of so-called The "halo effect" of these things tried to clarify and they proved that these old theories had and what a foothold. When a man sees a Zirkovic, he doesn't need to listen to him, he's clear. That man simply brings out evil, hatred, the worst traits of character. We just asked which DOS party he's from, no one wants to admit that he belongs to his party. And he said something about Serbian radicals... He says he doesn't listen to the MPs as they speak, because there's nothing he can hear. Poor cirkovic. And if he heard anything smart, he wouldn't understand anything.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8732	Since a number of proposals by the Committee on Justice and Administration have been challenged during the search, the National Assembly, in accordance with Article 175(4). The Rules of Procedure shall immediately decide on each contested proposal and then decide on any other undeniable proposals in general by a public vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8733	The board needs to say why it's disputed, so I know how to vote.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8734	Therefore, according to the Rules of Procedure, if a candidate proposed by the Committee on Justice and Administration has been disputed during the debate. We have here five or six candidates whose candidacy has been challenged by individual MPs during the discussion and are individually decided on. Then we decide on all those candidates who are not challenged during the debate. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Justice and Administration Committee to elect Mr Dusko Djukanovic, whose candidacy has been challenged by individual MPs, for the judge and president of the District Court in Valjevo. For 123, against 35, with eight abstentions, no vote was made by 20, a total of 186 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Duško Djukanovic as judge and president of the District Court in Valjevo. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Sonja Brkic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the District Court in Novi Sad. For 132, against 46, with five abstentions, three, 186 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mrs Sonja Brkic as judge and president of the District Court in Novi Sad. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mr Bozidar Glintic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the judge and president of the Municipal Court in Ivanjica. For 132, against 48, two abstentions, not seven, a total of 189 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mr Bozidar Glintic as judge and president of the Municipality of Ivanjica. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee on Justice and Administration to elect Mrs Jelena Shimon, whose candidacy during the debate, as judge and president of the Municipal Court in Novi Bece. For 131 against 50, the two abstentions were not voted by six, a total of 189 MPs. I find the National Assembly has chosen Mrs. Jelena Shimon as judge and president of the City Court in New Vienna. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mrs Ljiljana Brkic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Mladenov. For 135, against 52, two abstentions, three, a total of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mrs Ljiljana Brkic as the president of the Municipal Court in Mladenov. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mr Miroljub Tomic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the District Court in Kragujevac. For 133, against 55, two abstentions, were not voted by two, a total of 192 MPs. I find the National Assembly has chosen Mr Miroljub Tomic as the President of the District Court in Kragujevac. I am putting to the vote the proposal of the Committee for Justice and Administration to elect Mr Dusan Drazovic, whose candidacy has been disputed for the President of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. For 135, against 53, there were no abstentions, no four votes, a total of 192 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has chosen Mr Dusan Dražovic as the president of the Municipal Court in Gornji Milanovac. We're going to vote on undeniable candidates. First of all, we are deciding on a motion for a decision to suspend the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 138, against 39, abstentioned 11, four, a total of 192 MPs did not vote. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the judge of the Constitutional Court of Serbia. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the discharge of the judge and the office of the President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 137, against 52, the abstentions were not, were not voted by four, a total of 193 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the discharge of Ms. Arežina from the office of judge and the office of President of the Chamber of Commerce in Belgrade. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's office of Judge of the Municipal Court in Ruma. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 137, against 53, the abstentions were not, were not voted by four, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to dismiss the court's duties as judge of the Court of Justice in Ruma. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction, with the addition of the motion for a decision. I'm putting the motion to vote, with the addition. For 136, against 51, one abstention, did not vote six, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the court's office to the judges of general jurisdiction, with the addition of the motion for a decision. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to suspend the term of office of the President of the General Court. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 135, against 49, one abstention, was not voted nine, a total of 194 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to suspend the duties of the President of the General Court. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision to relieve the President of the General Court. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 132, against 51, one abstention, was not voted 13, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to relieve the President of the General Jurisdiction Court. We move to a vote on a motion for a decision on the termination of office for the public prosecutor's office. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 134, against 52, one abstention, did not vote 10, a total of 197 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision on the termination of office for the public prosecutor's office. We move to a vote on the motion for a decision on the election of judges and president of district and municipal courts, with amendments and correction of the Committee on Justice and Administration. One of those changes you got just before the session was continued. I put the motion for a decision with an amendment and correction of the Justice and Administration Committee. For 149, against 23, 19 abstentions, did not vote seven, a total of 198 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect judges and president of district and municipal courts, with amendments and corrections. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, to congratulate, in my name and your name, on the choice of holders of judicial functions and to wish them success in their work. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: – Proposal for the Law on Payments in State Organies and Public Services You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted to the bill by Stevan Kesejic, Tomislav Nikolic, Dragan Maršić, Dragan Čolić, Slobodan Janjic, Goran Cvetanović, Vitomir Plužarevic, Dragoljub Stamenković, Branislav Blažić, Lazar Marjanski, Bozidar Vujic, Srboljub Živanovic, Gordana Pop-Lazić, Bozidar Vučurović, Stevo Dragašić, Milorad Mirčić, Ljubomir Kragović, Natasa Jovanovic, Miroljub Veljković, Aleksandar Vučić, Joca Arsić and Rajko Baralić, Petar Jodorić, Jovan Todorović, Veroljub Arsic, Zlatan Jovanovic, Arsen Kurjački, Ljubomir Mucic, Radojko Petrić, Boris, Boris Pelevic, as well as well as the amendment of the Legislative Committee. You have received reports from the Legislative Committee, the Committee on Labour, Combat and Social Affairs and the Administrative Committee. I'd like some suggestions for the length of the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8735	I suggest that the debate on this point lasts five minutes, since we've already had a debate on the same issue once, so I think it's quite five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8736	If you'll excuse me, in the meantime, I owe you a little bit of information, because we can come back next time in a similar situation. The Rules of Procedure say - at the beginning of the debate. The beginning of the debate is not before the debate is opened, and I have stopped, but the Rules of Procedure say at the beginning, so we all have that in mind when we're second in line to decide the length of the debate. I'm putting the motion to vote to limit the debate to five minutes. For 130, against 56, one abstention, did not vote six, a total of 193 MPs. I find that we have adopted this proposal. I'm opening a principled search. Is the promoter answering for a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8737	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since several years of salaries in state authorities have been paid beyond the legal basis, it is necessary to edit them in a unique way, rebuild the system by which broken relations would be established and ensure equal pay levels for all jobs of the same complexity. At the same time, there is also a need to put in place a proper relationship in relation to salaries in public service salaries, which are financed from the budget and contributions to compulsory social security. Public service salaries have so far been arranged by special collective agreements, which have also been violated in practice through individual collective agreements and other acts. In view of the fact that public service salaries are financed from public income, they need to be regulated in a unique manner in order to ensure adequate relations are established in the evaluation of individual transactions in different activities. In addition, after the expiry of the Law on Salaries in State Authorities, Territorial Autonomy Units and Local Self-Government, they mainly returned to the application of the Law on Labour Relations in State Authorities, applying any coefficients, either the basis under the provisions of the Law, which resulted in a significantly higher wage increase compared to the other beneficiaries of the budget. Since these salaries, as well as salaries in state authorities and public services, are an integral part of the general public expenditure balance in the Republic, it was necessary to regulate their highest level, as in earlier processes. Also, the Law on Changes and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act provides for a new way of determining wages, whereby the component of the salary has also become food supplements during work, the regression for the use of annual holidays and the like, and is also one of the reasons for the adoption of this law, in order to provide a new way of determining wages in the case of budgetary users. In addition, as of 1 January 2001, according to the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenses, the gross principle of the budget is applied, which means that all public revenues are being entered into the revenues of the budget. Starting with the provision, the Law on the budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001 included the own revenues of individual state authorities and used for different purposes, including the increase of employees' salaries. For all of these reasons, a new law has been opened to regulate the salaries of all budget users in a unique way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8738	Are any of the representatives of the Committee answering for a word? No, I don't. ) Then representatives of the parliamentary groups, Mr Pelevic, then Mr Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8739	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice president, dear colleagues and fellow Members of the People's Parliament, Mr. Minister, a while ago the government withdrew this law on salaries in state authorities and public services. She withdrew it because the assembly adopted the amendment of an opposition MP, which disrupted the entire concept of the bill. We expected the government to submit a different proposal of this law, which would be acceptable for MPs of the National Assembly, above all for MPs from opposition MPs. However, it seems to me that we have received an even worse bill than the one we discussed earlier. The government cannot accept the fact that only one part of the government in the Republic of Serbia is carrying out. The constitution of the Republic of Serbia speaks of the power in Serbia being divided into legislative, executive and judicial. Article 9. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia primarily speaks of the constitutional and legislative authority carried out by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. In second place, the president of the Republic of Serbia is said to be third in the executive power of the government of the Republic of Serbia, and fourth in the judiciary, i.e. the judiciary and the prosecution. We expected the government to have regard for the Constitution and to give up its ambition to become a totalitarian authority in the Republic of Serbia and to determine each one's part of the government, and to take for himself only what the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia attributes to it. Unfortunately, it's not like that. Indeed, the government wants to determine the salaries of everyone in the Republic of Serbia, even those chosen by the people. I don't want to get into public service problems or other persons who have been appointed, appointed or employed. It can be accepted, but it cannot be accepted that the government determines salaries for the president of the Republic of Serbia, whom the people choose in the direct secret elections. We cannot accept the fact that the government determines salaries for the MPs, the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, the vice-presidents of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the presidents and vice-presidents of the parliamentary groups. These are persons elected by the people of the Republic of Serbia and the government has no authority to determine salaries for those persons. I have seen that many amendments have been submitted in this regard, in addition to the amendment of the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly, my amendment and many other MPs, and the minister is now saying that the amendment has been accepted. If so, and I have no reason not to believe, I accept and so much will change the meaning of my discussion in the future, given that it really was something that was unacceptable, and the past in this session. If the government has realized that it really cannot do this and if it has returned to the framework of its powers attributed to the constitution, then it should certainly be welcomed. There's something else that's got eyes on, when a member of the 7th bill is read, which is that the president of the Republic of Serbia gets paid by the coefficient of 15.00. The government handled those old coefficients in the Labour Relations Act in state bodies and doubled the amount of the coefficients. This isn't the case. It used to be a 7.00 coefficient, and now it's 15.00. We believe that it should remain at least 14, because I see no reason why the President of the Republic would be so paid up, especially not to this President of the Republic who is currently in power, who is currently in the office of the President of the Republic of Serbia, because I really don't see that man doing his duty for nothing, but really by nothing. That's why I don't see any reason for that man to be rewarded with this amount, which means 15.00. That's what really stings your eyes and I think you should in further discussion and amendments. Furthermore, there is a point in the eye that, say, the MP receives a lower salary than the judge of the High Court of Commerce receives. I don't see any reason, the judge of the Senior Court of Commerce is a clerk and it can be anyone who graduates from the relevant university and passes certain judicial exams, but not everyone can be a MP. I think the pay of the MP is high, always talking and staying on it. But it really needs to have more than the salary of a senior court judge. I think we'll do that, and hopefully we'll make it right in the course of the discussion. In any case, if the Government changed its basic position, and the basic position was that it really had totalitarian power, to determine the salary of all elected persons, if that is the case, and there is no doubt that it did, the minister had just confirmed it, then the party of the Soviets will, after all this, hold a meeting of the parliamentary group and consider whether we should vote in principle, in general, on this law. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8740	The People's Messenger Vojislav Seselj has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8741	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on such issues is always problematic and always has a political aspect that must not be ignored. It is precisely because of this political aspect that we, for example, have not been able in the past term, nor have we worked very hard in the Government of the Republic of Serbia, to build a serious legal project on the salaries of state officials, elected, appointed persons, employees of state and public services, etc. It was an initiative based on a proposal from a group of MPs from various parties. I think they were from all the parties from last term. It passed in the Assembly, but then in public caused a storm of disdain, so the law was soon withdrawn. The law that is before us is much like that of which the congregation gave up and after a violent public reaction abolished it. Why? Because, to the end, the conditions of profit and liability that condition the level of income are not determined precisely. This law was made without a clear concept because it gave too much rights to the government. The government determines the coefficient for all employees, regardless of the principle of division of power. And then, the government leaves its hands completely free to regulate how they will be paid in healthcare, education and other public services, and the government has the freedom to actually pro-longing the inequalities there. These coefficients don't mean anything here if you don't know the exact amount of money. Therefore, they should be tied to either the lowest salary in Serbia or the average salary in Serbia. And, then, someone who's been doing this legal ops project has ordered state-level officials not to worry about how to set them up and what differences between them to make. Well, then he put the president of the Republic on pedestal with a coefficient of 15. As president of the Republic, he deserves 50% more than the minister. On what grounds is that just as much? The President of the Republic is headed by the executive authority first of all. He's in a formal sense, and he's head of state. But he's the head of the executive. His salary should not be higher than the salary of the president of the National Assembly, the President of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. So you have to cut the bar by three index points, to 12 or if you need a little more of them to have, by half points, no more than that. Secondly, when it comes to concrete holders of functions, you know, I'd rather leave without a salary and Mr. Marsican, Milan Milutinovic, and especially Zoran Djindjic, because he has so much money from tobacco that he doesn't need a salary. But here we have to talk about the essence, not ad personam. When we discuss this law, we must not be interested in specific individuals who perform a certain function. Not at all. Three main officials of three branches of government must be equalised. The president of the National Assembly, the head of state, may also be the Prime Minister along with him, means the President of the Republic, the Prime Minister, and the President of the Supreme Court and the Constitutional Court. It is not up to the judicial authority to separate myself or Leposavi Karamarkovic to pay any salary, but I am not starting to think that she is temporarily the President of the Supreme Court today, but that one day a serious, honorable lawyer will definitely come here, able to do the job. That's why I stand for it - in time to make those scales. Furthermore, moving is necessary for all other officials. There must be no big difference between the prime minister and the prime minister because the Prime Minister is in our constitutional system, which means the first among the equal. The Prime Minister has no authority greater than any government minister, except to propose a list of ministers to the National Assembly for adoption. Nothing else he has more than other ministers. He's the first among the equals and it needs to be seen in this law. Here it is suggested that poor people who have already been regressed for this year will be taken away from that regression. That can't be retroactive. Whoever has received a regress under the past law, you can't take that regression away from him anymore. But I guess you can, because we don't have a Constitutional Court. What is the biggest problem of this legislative project is the government's authority to determine the coefficient for receiving members and legislative and judicial authorities. That's what the government can't do. This law would therefore be counter-constitutional. Apparently anti-constitutional. The government must not interfere with the jurisdiction of the judicial authority or the judicial authority should be dependent on the executive authority. If the government determines the salaries of judges, they are already under government control. If the government determines the salaries of MPs, they are under government control. Of course, our MPs are hard to control. You can't do that. But that's why the judges are in a much harder position. By modeling other developed democracies, a completely opposite mechanism must be created, under which the judiciary would have autonomy in determining wages. Of course, those salaries would again depend on qualifications, depending on the place and role of the judicial authority system. It's got to be arranged. It would be extremely wrong to adopt a law like this. And, this law must contain a clear definition of what payment classes these are according to what is foreseen for elected and appointed state officials.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8742	I'm sorry, I missed to say it's five minutes short, and I'm warning you for six minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8743	And you voted that cut. I didn't know. Here, I'm done now. Therefore, it must be clear and transparent for all persons employed in education, for all health workers, and in other public services what it means. As the ministers, judges and MPs are determined by this law must be determined by all other public service employees, so that we do not get a higher salary from the university's rector, which is the nonsense of its kind. You know, no country in the world has a minister's salary higher than a State University rector. We're not interested in private. But he can't have any bigger than a state university rector.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8744	There is a word from MP Predrag Mijailovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8745	The Honorable Presidency, the Honorable President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. I will support this bill and vote for it. In Articles 1(4) and (5) of this Act, the remuneration of health care professionals shall also be regulated. In Article 8(1), under headings 4 and 5, the method of determining the payment classes is defined by a government act. Gentlemen Members of the People, health workers have the lowest salaries, regardless of having the highest qualification structure compared to all other public and other services. Plata, let's say, the hygienics have 60 to 70 marks in dinar equivalent, nurses 100 to 120, general practitioners have only 150 to 180, specialists up to 250, specialists and subspecies, masters and that I still don't list, about 300 to 320 marks. The Health segment is one of the most important and essential sectors in one country and one country is seen through health care. By passing the Law on Payment Classes, the DOS fulfils its pre-election promises that health and education are priorities. By estimating the government's efforts in this direction, I have not submitted amendments to Article 8 for two reasons - the first reason, I believe that this can be resolved by the Government Regulation, but when adopting a bill on paying classes, the Ministry of Health, or the Government, must have the agreement of the Assembly Health Committee on the coefficients for determining salaries for healthcare professionals and employees in health institutions. Or, if he can't do that, then the second reason the Government has to adopt an emergency procedure to pass a law on medical chambers, which absolutely must participate and give consent to those coefficients, i.e. payment classes, on the government act. Otherwise, gentlemen Members of Parliament, health workers and all health care workers would come to an opportunity, as they came from 1945 to today, to hand over their fate to others, including the Government of the DOS. I hope the government respects this. The reasons for what I'm looking for are that health care has its great specificities. For example, on some occasions, it's important that you only have a degree. Every day, every year we have new methods. Here, I speak out loud and publicly in front of everyone, in front of the entire Serbian public and in front of all my colleagues -- it is known that no serious method in health can last. To be introduced into medicine, or practice, one who will seriously and studioically approach that method, at least takes a year or more. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, such people must be rewarded, because by a new method they improve health care, and at the same time they enter new risks when they work that method. I'll tell you what we all know -- if a surgeon doing laparoscopic surgery, there's complications, he has to solve that complication. He has to be a good surgeon first. He has to be a good endoscopic surgeon. So, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have to do it. Not to name all the other endoscopys and stuff. Otherwise, if they didn't do it, then they'd come up with a healthboat, and at the same time, young people wouldn't want to be professionally perfected. I hope that the government will respect this, both of these reasons, and it is not burning, if it cannot respect, that it is, control of all of this, by the Health Committee, then let it be by emergency procedure, to pass a law on medical chambers, which was passed in 1991 and which was put out of force by the government act. Therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I hope you have fully understood me and I hope that the Government will fully understand me, because our Minister of Health will certainly want to do so, but in the Government it is not just the Minister of Health. Because gentlemen, here you need the greatest understanding to show the finance minister, since it's money, gentlemen. No money, no progress, no health care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8746	The word has the People's MP Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8747	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, again the same bill I think, in the text proposed by the Serbian Government, it will surely be the same fate as the one that prevailed twenty days ago. It cannot pass in a text in which the Serbian government imagined that the MPs could be turned into one body serving the executive power. You see, even the president of the National Assembly felt that in Serbia the power was divided into legislative, executive and judicial, which reminds us of the amendment, which otherwise wants to regulate the salaries of the president of the Republic and of the MPs, and it would be very good if the president of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia reacted to any attempt by the Government to place the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia under his tutorship in his service. I accept that this was a conscience exam for the president of the National Assembly, because in one small part, as some colloquium, he passed it, but he will have serious exams to defend the integrity and authority of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. What the Government has done - since the National Assembly has accepted the amendment that I have given, and I have given a very clear and simple amendment, that the laws regulate the salaries of people who are other authorities - have written us a bill in which we, by God's law, will determine the coefficients, and the government will determine the basis by which officials will be paid, and elected, and appointed persons, and even the President of the Republic, and even the President of the National Assembly, and of course today certainly cannot pass. You see, before aggression, perhaps negligent years, the National Assembly adopted a bill, very similar to this, which was meant to regulate relations in state services, meaning executive, legislative and judicial authorities. You were in opposition, and then there was an unprecedented media campaign against political states, whose representatives in this assembly voted the bill, so great that we all realized that "the devil took the joke" and that perhaps you shouldn't take on something that you could bizarrely consider as trying to get us some big wages, at a time when the state was badly standing, that we shouldn't go into big conflicts with you, and that law has given up. Today you're in power, today you keep all the media under your roll. Will there be an odium in public against this bill? Not because you're going to order all the editors, and you're calling them on the phone all the time, each of your media, you've shared and you're very carefully guarding your media space, although today I notice that a single newspaper (I'm warning you, gentlemen MPs, just like the minister, brush your teeth when you throw it to me).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8748	I ask the MP to take care of the courtesy of addressing others present in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8749	Tell me his name, so I know who he's referring to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8750	No, I'm talking to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8751	Why me?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8752	Because, according to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, we have a duty to conduct politely in communication with each other in the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8753	You don't think it's rude to be treated when someone's throwing me away while I'm at the pay phone?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8754	Talk to the chairman or president of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8755	Then why do you speak when you judge that you should speak? Why don't you keep your mouth shut all the time? Or warn those who break the Rules of Procedure in order, or warn no one. You're waiting for the MP to warn of a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Now I'm out here, for this pay phone, to be exposed to the abuses of the DOS majority, and when I answer, you remember to remind me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8756	I do not warn you, but I remind you of the obligation of courtesy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8757	Why do you remind me? I feel amazing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8758	Because you're talking about a pay phone that can be heard on television. People's ambassadors who earn in the O.R. can't be heard on television.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8759	What difference does it make that they can't hear each other, so they can say whatever they want, they can't be heard. Well, all you care about is the transmission, and I'm worried about what kind of law we're gonna pass today. All you care about is what's gonna happen on TV. Let it be heard in this congregation that you are filing a bad bill. Yesterday I said - what it looks like when the MPs of the majority listen to the government of the Republic of Serbia in everything unspeakably, and you heard at the end of the presentation of the Prime Minister, who said that you must listen to him, because such relations are in this assembly, and that you will have to vote for everything that the Government proposes. Here's your proposal. You're getting some coefficients here, and the foundation is going to give you government and you're going to change the legal proposals that the government delivers, because you, for God's sake, are the ones who control the executive power, and the executive power determines the salaries for you. I tried to regulate it again, with one amendment, to go, to start with some pay. Whether they are high or low, the finance minister, who is not there, can talk about it, and this law depends solely on the finance minister, not the minister of justice. Let's go with some basics, finally know where our salaries come from. Well, if the government finds out there's not enough, we're going to break the balances-- to cut our base, because the whole country's going to fail. If he finds out we've been too modest, and I've modestly determined the basics, he'll say that he'll increase the base for all public service employees, because it doesn't fit the real state. So, to adopt the bill and tell the government -- here you are, we've given you the fates of hundreds of thousands of employees -- I think it's wrong, and I don't think you should accept this bill that's on the agenda today, and if you do, then the ministers are right to do things to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8760	National MP Vojislav Seselj spoke in front of the Serbian Radical Party parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8761	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will use this second announcement to give my opinion on the draft law's intention to control the local self-government under absolute control when it comes to the salaries of local self-government employees. You who have repeatedly advocated a completely different concept of local self-government should not even think of voting such a law. Because you should have compared it with the European Charter of Local Self-Government that you insisted on so much. The government here has allowed itself to divide municipalities into those up to 60,000 inhabitants and those across. Under the basic principle of local self-government, which today largely accepts constitutionally - legal and political theory as one of the top democratic achievements, the government must not interfere in this issue. The government must completely leave this issue to local self - administration, or in our case, congregations of municipalities and congregations of cities. The government can only do one thing, determine the ratio of the lowest and highest wages. Not at a specific height, just a diameter. For example, that the president of the municipality may have a salary four times the minimum, of the householder's salary (or five times the salary). That's another question. It could be prescribed by law. The rest must be entrusted to local self-government. And not to the local self-government to prescribe salaries and yet to humiliate units of local self-government, if they don't have, for example. 60,000 inhabitants. If you think it is smarter to have local self-government with 100 or more thousand inhabitants, or those of 60, or those below 60,000 inhabitants, then some other law requires that we redistribute, or redistribute local autonomy in Serbia, to determine some new number, the borders between them in order to make them all even. There is something called the natural development of local self-government and that prevents all local self-governments from being identical by the number of inhabitants, according to the urban and rural population, by how economically developed, environmentally protected, how developed their infrastructure is, etc.... There is no expert at Serbia's level who can equate, with this aspect, all local self-government. But, on the other hand, they do not need to be deprived of something that is their original autonomous right, which means that they themselves determine the salaries of employees in their own territory, that is, in the bodies of local self-government. The central government should not interfere, especially in this matter, with their executive power. Because the executive power already has so much control at its disposal in the budget, the implementation of budget items voted in the form of the law by the Assembly, but the government, the finance ministry, decides on a concrete distribution of money. The finance ministry can sometimes slow down the inflow of one local self-government and speed up another, etc. That's what the Minister of Finance's discretionary rights are, and it can also be misused. In this case, if the Assembly has decided by law how many years the receipts of a local self-government will be, then it must not interfere with how it will specifically allocate these issues, except in the basic frameworks. The basic frameworks in the pay area are the ratios between the highest and lowest salary. Nothing else. Accordingly, the law should be revised in all other provisions. This, in whole, just can't survive. None of his provisions can survive. Either the government and the competent ministry will create a serious comprehensive, concrete law that would once, for many years, resolve the issue of salaries of government employees, in state services, in state bodies at all, or not to change this existing situation. Because even now, they're not as bad laws and rules as they are the low amounts of actual wages that are received. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8762	The word has been made by MP Stevan Kesejic, a follow-up MP, Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8763	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we were expecting after the withdrawal of this law from the procedure, so the law on a bill of wages in state authorities and public services, that we will get a good law today. However, it seems that the government is literally playing with the MPs in this assembly, because not only has it not improved what the MPs have put on this law as a remark, but they have improved it even more. This law, which today is to be passed, is a law that is, above all, unconstitutional, which is not in accordance with federal law. And it is also not to the extent of all those employees who are beneficiaries of the Republic of Serbia's budget. First of all, this law says that the government has tried to interfere again and is taking the authority of the legislative authority. I would say to that folk, trying, as so far in other laws, to "draw" not only by the people, but also by the MPs, to "draw" and the president of the Republic of Serbia. So he simply wants to be imposed, to be "God above God", and this is also seen in the examples of individual ministers sitting here, in the front rows and defending those laws that they propose. In view of this barrage of law, I think it comes out of all this, as far as I know, a lot of amendments to this law have been made. Thus, the government should immediately pass and propose to the president of the National Assembly, before this debate breaks down, to withdraw the law from the procedure. Unless she is able to build a project of some good law herself, which will be acceptable to the users, to find some experts who, from the ranks of perhaps opposition parties, may be from the SRS, and I am sure of it, will prepare one bill that would guarantee that the law will, above all, be fair to all users of the Republic of Serbia's budget. This law also notes too much authority from the government and resolution ministers, as regards the determination of salaries in certain resolution ministries. For example, as has already been said here, it will be the executive authority that will determine the salaries of local self-government employees. The DOS pre-election campaign, as far as I know, was decentralisation. This law carries out total centralization and paws and on local self-government, not just on these organs that I've been talking about so far. Therefore, not only the legislative authority, the elected persons, the MPs and the President of the Republic, but also the employees of small towns, in cities that were expected of this new government to decentralisation and the possibility of having their money available and, in accordance with the principles and total amount of money in the budget, they can make and value the work of their employees in local self-government. So unless the amendments that point to these facts that I am talking about are accepted, concerning the interference of the executive authority in legislative and judicial matters, I believe that this law should in no way be accepted by the MPs today, because we would have made a precedent in relation to the previous session when we returned the same law from the procedure, which is not more important, or has not been changed at all. Also, I believe that members of the government, or ministers who will determine the foundations and salaries for certain resolutions, such as health care, education and what is on the streets today, so citizens who protest low wages, those who are dissatisfied with their ministries towards bases, will be even more disappointed if these ranges, which were provided for by this law here, are thus adopted. Ranges, which we cannot talk about today because the time for discussion is quite limited (we may be able to talk in particular), will just lead to one polarisation and one fierce reaction of those who are recognised as being less paid than others who are considered not adequately rewarded. Therefore, once again in the end, let me say that it would be very good to end the debate on this law and to withdraw the law from the procedure, because in any case, it is nowhere near what MPs of the Republic Assembly can adopt and accept.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8764	The People's MP Rajko Baralic has the word, and after him, MP Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8765	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, Members of the People's Parliament, esteemed journalists, we have already discussed the draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services, but after the amendment adopted by the National Assembly. We have now a correction of what we almost accepted last time. Because of the public, I want to say what the pay is for the MP. So, not to speculate: MPs have a salary under 10,000 dinars. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: It is not true. That's absolutely true. So I'm not saying it's high or low wages, but I'm saying how big it is, and let the citizens of Serbia evaluate it themselves. I'd like to say something about Article 7 because that's the key thing to this bill. With MP Joco Arsic, I have submitted an amendment to this article, so there will be opportunities to say more about it. But what I'm saying is I don't share the opinion of those MPs who think the President of the Republic shouldn't have this coefficient. I am not speaking personally about any president of the Republic that is today, or who will be tomorrow, but I am talking about the President of the Republic as an institution, which is chosen in a very delicate way, therefore, by a direct statement of citizens. If someone thinks the president of a country should have the salary that four average officials earn, then I don't think he thinks well of his country or his President of the Republic. It's a hard time, and I think, however much anyone's salary is, for those who don't even have that kind of income, it's causing certain comments and some trouble for all of us together. But anyway, we're talking about the president of the state. The amendment we have made refers to indent 2. I really don't think it's normal for the president of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister to have the same salary. I see some colleagues think it's the right thing to do. I don't think so, because the president of the National Assembly must first of all be a National MP. The Prime Minister is not a member of the Parliament. So there isn't this election-based check that's not as simple as we've seen. In addition, the President of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Constitution, replaces the President of the Republic on certain occasions. In addition, he is the president of the country's highest legislative and representative home. So I don't speak personally. If we will and personally - I am fully convinced that Mr. Dragan Marsicanin lives on exactly that salary, and I am not sure that Mr. Zoran Djindjic lives on his own salary alone. The last indent is said to be "7.50 for district court judges, deputy district attorney and public prosecutor and court judge". Dear fellow Members of the People's Parliament, the judge of the Court of Commerce is a first-degree judge. The district court judge is doing a delicate job and, as far as we know, pronounces certain crimes and the death penalty. It's not normal for their salary to be valued the same way. I think there's some sort of correction to be made here. I'm not talking about the salaries of the MPs, because I think it's delicate and that, by applying that principle that no one should be a judge of their own case, this matter should be resolved by the Administrative Committee and in such a way that the MPs deprive us of the inconvenience to discuss the height of our earnings. As far as local self-government is concerned, she has received a better solution through the proposal of this law in some areas, and in some such as Cacachak, because local self-government has so far had the right to use the principle that as a basis, they take either the average in the Republic or the average in the municipality, so they have been used more favourably, and in this way, the workshop of local self-government, Cachak will have incomes 100 percent lower, if this is applied and if it remains as it is today, than they normally had until this moment. I don't think they stood up for it, and I think it takes a certain degree of independence and comosion in those environments that work better and more efficiently, and I don't agree with MPs who said that the number of residents of the municipality is not very important for the planning of the salary because it's not the same thing to manage everything that happens in a municipality where there are 100,000 inhabitants and in a municipality where there are 20,000 inhabitants. That's why I think the MPs, who are here mostly and the presidents of the municipalities and in other ways are in charge of local self-government, should take care of this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8766	Third time, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8767	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am truly pleasantly surprised that the MPs of the Serbian Radical Party have far greater salaries than the Socialist Party MPs. It seems that the DOS majority for some reason appreciates us much more. You think about why, so maybe you deserve more pay. Secondly, I'm surprised your wages are so small. This is where we should keep in mind what state authorities are talking about. As Prime Minister is the first among the equal, among ministers, so the president of the National Assembly is the first among MPs. The president of the National Assembly, apart from the chairmanship, has very few special powers that distinguish him from the MPs, and therefore these differences must not be as big as they are with the law. That's not the third time I've answered my word to exercise my right, it's something that's much more important here. The creators of this legal project have not even tried to finally fix the situation in health, education and other public services. What does it mean to fix this situation? It means first of all building a cash register for all public service employees, to be exact. The primary in Belgrade must have the same salary as the primary in Vranj, that the head of the Senjak infirmary must have the same salary as the manager of the clinic in Blac. That is the essence and then you will have a much better situation of personnel in Serbia, and now we have a situation that employees in Belgrade are in certain places, not everywhere, not a general rule, much better paid than employees in the same jobs in the interior. Such a law should avoid it, so that a man from Belgrade is motivated to go to Blace or Vlasotince to work there, receives the same salary as Belgrade, and there is cheaper food, cheaper apartment, cheaper this, cheaper that. That's why a provision like this would make sense. So far, no government has been able to do that. Some future one would have to, and I don't think this one would form a legal project that would even the employees of various public services. Since World War II, who was the most endangered? The most endangered are educational workers and railroad workers. That's a fact. The railroad is a public service by definition, and since it's defined here, I don't care at all, but without it, the state can't function, and that's what matters. There's no difference in the status issue between the railway and the mail. What's the big deal? It is important to equalise employees in all services on the basis of their qualifications, skills, the importance of jobs, etc. It's a chance to fix the state of the staff in education, and there's no other chance. The fact that Gašo Knezevic, from time to time, gives them an empty promise, so he doesn't fulfill or increase their score a bit, and then inflation destroys it, it's not a system solution. Systemic solution is the introduction of a category of civil servants. Public service employees are civil servants. There could be 20 categories, from maid to minister. In these 20 categories each has its designated place, in health, in education and in cultural activities that are state-owned, i.e. national obligations and which are financed from the budget by the state. Anything financed from the budget in an identical way to regulate it. That would be one reform procedure. I don't think you're capable of going into this reform procedure, but I'm putting it here as a pawn for the Serbian Radical Party, so at least let the public think about it. So far, we have not been able to perform such a reform procedure. Unfortunately, we have never been alone in power to do so, nor have we had the parliamentary majority, but since when has our party stood for it. There, in public services, it is difficult to assess a concrete working effect.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8768	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8769	It's not machine production, so you know how much who. You can't pay an educational worker per piece, because a student is not a piece, a student is not a piece. There should be paid essentially for his work, even if he did his job in front of five or ten students or performed it in front of a classroom in which 40 students were present. He does the same job, identical work, and even has the same hard work, lectured or questioned, and it is easier to question than to give lectures. He does so within his working hours and has 20 hours a week and it is his working norm. Why should he suffer from his low wage because he has few students in the class, because the birth rate in many parts of Serbia has fallen, and our interest is to have schools and small villages where there is very little birth. We have to do this and it would be a reform procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8770	Please conclude.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8771	It would be an essential reform procedure that, unfortunately, we cannot expect from you. You won't have time, everything, and you want to do something like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8772	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and then Natasa Jovanovic's MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8773	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as proposed by Article 3 of this Law, it remains that the government is re-establishing the coefficients for 240,000 employees in the authorities of state and local self-government. With this bill, it is obvious that there is no decentralisation that has been announced in any case, I mean decentralisation of government, including decentralisation of local self-government. On the contrary, centralization is being carried out here, because the government takes everything into its own hands and even assumes a legislative role in relation to the powers which, as an executive authority, by the principles and principles of the division of power, belong to it as an executive authority. I don't think any of these big questions in any case can be left to the Assembly and to the government to rule regulations. It is already known in the past that all of us, including you from the congregation’s majority, have previously condemned and disagreed with the regulations that the Government has made. The correct redistribution in the proposal was not carried out in relation to Article 7, so it would only state the case of the Judge of the High Court of Commerce. It has a greater coefficient than the president of the district court and the district attorney. There is no excuse if it is in Belgrade, imagine the president of the Belgrade District Court who has 16 municipalities, a number of municipal judges, the Belgrade District Attorney-General who also has a number of municipal prosecutors on his territory who handles a bulky and huge apparatus of the judiciary, that he has the same salary as the judge of the Court of Commerce who runs the referendums, gets to handle a number of cases. It's absolutely illogical and unfair. It is also known, and Minister Batic knows, there can be 15 or 16 judges in Obrenovac, and there are 100 judges in Belgrade. Is this relationship correct and realistic, that the President of the Municipal Court in Obrenovac has the same salary as the President of the First Municipal Court who has, I say, over 100 judges in that court and has thousands and thousands of cases to solve in the course of the year, and some court in the smaller municipality has 200 or 300 criminal cases a year and 300 or 400 litigation cases, and this one has hundreds and hundreds, or thousands and thousands of cases. As the Fourth Municipal Court, which works as an executive court in the executive referendum, has over 150,000 cases annually. In this respect, I do not think that this law, or this proposed law, regulates to a large extent the proper way to distribute funds and personal incomes of public, public, or state-law employees. It is not logical that the judge has the same salary as the elected person in local self-government, in a municipality of 61,000 inhabitants. Now you see what your relationships are like. These relationships aren't properly set up and they're unreally proposed here. It doesn't make sense, ladies and gentlemen, that the government determines salaries for government-chosen representatives. To elect the government is the power of parliament, or the National Assembly, and no one else can determine the representatives that the people have chosen, other than parliament, to determine the coefficients, so by law. The law also determines the coefficient for members of the government. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I do not see here that it is decentralisation, because the hands of local self-government and local self-government here have no autonomy and no influence in relation to personal income and personal income, their coefficients, which should be determined and regulated by local self-government. That is why I believe that this bill is a bad example, that we should continue to reform the legislation and I would suggest that the Proposer withdraw it, build it up and build it up, to be applicable in practice and to be realistic and, as such, to find its real application in practice. And to feel that at this point, legislation reform is in the right way in accordance with the Constitution, and federal and republican, in fact, in the Republic of Serbia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8774	The word is made by the MP Natasa Jovanovic, followed by the MP Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8775	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I have not had the opportunity to reject the previous proposal of this same law that the Government sent to the MPs in half of May because, contrary to the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I was expelled from that session. But I'm not even sorry when it comes to the law, because the one that we got today, which regulates this area, is also mutilated, as it was before, which is why the government pulled him out of the procedure. I would remind you that the MPs of the SRS were then warning of what we pointed out during our ten-year political action, whether in Parliament, whether outside it, that the government must be divided into legislative, executive court and we have warned you then and then, and also now, through the shortcomings and understatement in this bill, that simply the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia must have the power to have and that the Government of the Republic of Serbia cannot, in the event of the regulation of the height of the foundations of state bodies and public services, determine that basis. And in doing so, we don't have any information from this law in which way and what will be the government's parameter to establish a basis based on which, according to the proposed coefficients, employees' salaries will be paid. There have been a lot of objections and a lot of this has been said at the level of the coefficients that have been proposed, and indeed there are very vague things to make such a high range from the President of the Republic to the People's Parliament, from the President of the District Court to the Prime Minister. However, what we in the SRS find absolutely unacceptable, in addition to the fact that the Government determines the basis for employees from Article 1(1), (3), (4) and (5), means alongside these persons mentioned in the amendment, which was accepted by the Government in the meantime - which is the President of the National Assembly, MPs, vice-president, Vice-President of the Working Body - we also cannot accept that the Government is setting the basis for public service employees financed from the Republic's budget, the Autonomous Province, local self-government units, and then employees in public services financed from contributions to compulsory social security, employees in compulsory social security organisations. You have, tomorrow you will have one of the series of amendments of the SRS MPs, where for starters, given the amount of wages currently paid, what are they, what are the salaries of the MPs, the President of the Republic, we have proposed to say the basis to be 1,500 dinars, and then every three months, depending on the costs, with the rise in the cost of living which is unfortunately higher and larger because of the disastrous economic policy carried out by the DOS Government, that basis is thus determined. So far, no one knew until the government also said at the federal level -- the base of the salary calculation is that big, and we didn't know what that base was. It is truly incomprehensible that the coefficient also contains an addition to the name of the food allowance in the course of work and the regress for the use of the annual vacation. I have to remind you of something that is happening now in Serbia, which you may not know from the DOS government, but which has caused a great deal of revolt among all the employees of the local self-government bodies, above all in education, health care, and in the case of the already divided regression, the part that could have been distributed to the employees by June 1st, until the entry into force of your famous tax law and so far, that part of the so-called untaxed regression must return. We find it incomprehensible that the coefficient also contains those categories for a simple reason because of the very bad situation in the economy. It's a very bad situation in budgeting, and it all depends on the overall situation in the economy...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8776	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8777	There are many entities that are treated under this law that will not be able to pay off the regress, and we are particularly bothered by - that is what is most drastic and thus I end up - this sort of division when it comes to categories of employees by municipalities, or by the number of inhabitants. What happens to a municipality that doesn't have 60 but 59,990 residents? It will mean being discriminated against, and we have very poor experience regarding expert staff in smaller municipalities in Serbia. This is the case in Šumadija, where you will, in this way, determine both the coefficient and the future determination of the basis, do such discrimination and all that professional capacity, which is also needed by small municipalities, such as Lapovo, Batocina, Knić, will make them go to large cities, that everyone is seeking employment in Kragujevac, and most of all in Belgrade, because their salary will be much, much higher there. I believe that because this time the promoter made a mistake, he gave himself the right, in fact, the government, to determine the basis, that this bill should not be accepted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8778	The word has a National MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8779	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will begin my presentation, such as the Minister of Justice and Temporary Measures, Mr Batic. Since, for several years, especially since the five-October revolution, salaries of government employees and public services have been paid without any legal solutions, it is necessary to adopt this law urgently. Besides, everything else that's going on in this country is going on without any legal solutions. All the laws, amendments and additions, regulations and other legal acts adopted by this assembly, and the Government has proposed or are contrary to federal laws, such as a set of tax laws, or are contrary to the Constitution, such as this law, which does not recognise the division of powers in executive, legislative and judicial matters. The president of the assembly gave an amendment, which I heard the government would accept in a kind of altered form, with the salaries of officials in the legislative authority, approximately, transferred it to the jurisdiction of the Federal Assembly. The salaries of executive officials, public services and local self-government will be determined by the government. And what about the salaries in the judiciary? We are now coming to what we talked about before noon in the appointment and discharge of the holders of judicial functions, that the government and the ministry want under their wing and under their hat to put judicial authority, and even so determining their salaries. Why are they paying in court? If they are already appointed by the Assembly, the Executive Order of the Government, why would a judicial authority not determine a judicial body, for example, a College of the Supreme Court, or a body formed at that level? Even more illogicalities occur in public service. The government has promised to establish payment classes in public services. Those paying classes aren't here yet. Local self-government also limits salaries, education and health care is a disaster, and I, like most of my colleagues who have spoken so far, think it would be instructive, smart and meaningful to withdraw this law from the procedure. And then to do what needs to be done, to regulate the reception of employees in state authorities and public services in one way that will last for years, not to change the rules and principles three times during one session, but to regulate this matter, which is very sensitive, once, even if it lasts until the end of a government's term. Here, four minutes and 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8780	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8781	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, since the law refers to 420,000 employees, who are classified according to the complexity, responsibility and conditions of work, titles and occupations, the classification of the pay groups of employees, these coefficients for the billing and payment of salaries will be determined by the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, not by the Government of the Republic of Serbia by some act. This law regulates the way in which salaries, additions, intentions and other receipts and receipts of elected, appointed and staff: 1st salaries of the President of the Republic, President and Vice-President of the National Assembly, President and Vice-President of the Parliamentary Group, President and Vice-President of the Permanent Working Body of the National Assembly and Members of the National Assembly; 2nd Authorities and Organisations of Territorial Autonomy and Local Self-Government; 3rd Public Services, financed from the budget of the Republic, Autonomous Local and Local Governments; 4th Public Services, financed from contributions to mandatory social security; 5th Organisations of Obligatory Social Insurance; 6. Other bodies and organisations financed from the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, these laws, sublegal and other acts of officials who operate state authorities in different ways have established salaries. It should be noted that their salaries are secured from the budget. This law regulates the way in which salaries, additions, remuneration and other remuneration of employees, elected and appointed persons in state bodies, in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government financed from contributions to compulsory social security. In Mr Djindjic's exposé, it can be noted that this is the government of major reforms and energy actions. It consists of two parts: the first part is a team for strategy and priorities made up of businesses of suspected morality and capital and representatives of DOS parties; the second part are experts, not from the world of theory, but from the world of practice, which is set up by the celebrated expert Bozidar Djelic, an expert who has been expelled from transition countries, but has come here with Subotic and Djindjic's aeroplan to learn finance. I am now interested, by which value is evaluated, according to Mr. Dragan Milovanovic, Mr. Gašo Knezevic,...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8782	Please stick to the subject. Mr. Zivanovic, please speak on the subject of the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8783	(Employer Seselj, from the place--He speaks of their wages. I'm talking about wages. Mr. Vladan Batić, Mr. Dragan Vesenov, Mr. Aleksandar Vlahovic, Mr. Dusan Mihajlović, Mr. Jožef Kasa, who robbed the Saturday municipality and the economy, President of the Chamber of Commerce Radoslav Veseinović, electrician and others. Furthermore, in the exposé Mr Djindjic says: it is our programme and these are the people who will implement it. The least we can promise is that it will be the government of speed and transparency. We will react to every problem immediately, we will tell the truth, and we will propose solutions. We won't lie, we won't steal - because we've done it before. In a series of activities taken and initiated by the League of Social Democrats of Vojvodina, with its President, Nenada Canko, who is also the president of the Vojvodina Assembly, it is also that the salaries of the province's MPs are double the amount of salaries paid by lawmakers in the republic's parliament. He just wants a quick decentralisation of Vojvodina and its separatist separation. Public officials and officials should make profits suitable for the standard, responsibility and dignity of their work. The salaries of public officials and officials must be periodically aligned according to a fixed permanent parameter, which would prescribe the law. Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic once again cheated on this parliament when he said that no state official will be a member of any board of directors, and we are aware that many are in the boards of many companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8784	Mr. Zivanovic, I won't allow you to continue because you're not sticking to the subject, and you've exceeded your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8785	Ladies and gentlemen, let Serbian citizens see how the government thinks about its salaries and its officials and falsely amounts to budget savings. They are not interested in the unhappiness of many factories, the lack of salaries of many workers and their miserable and miserable life in collectives: "14 October", "Red Flag", "Zorka" - Shabac, "Viscoza" - Loznica, MIN - Nis, IMT - Belgrade, "dragon" - Belgrade, and many others. We, the Serbian radicals, believe that this law, as well as DOS authorities, is intolerant, unprincipled, unreal and unusable, and therefore should be withdrawn from the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8786	The word is from MP Garčević Vladimir.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8787	The Honorable Chairman, the Honorable Minister, the honourable MPs, I expected here after the withdrawal of the salary law to get a comprehensive coefficient schedule for all employees, 420,000 people. Unfortunately, it seems that we, as MPs, and that means the government, have identified ourselves as coefficients for a very small number of government employees. Why is that, I don't get it. There are other categories -- education, 110,000 employees, millions of students, there's still a category -- health care, there's a category left, at the very least -- the judiciary, the exception of judges, so they can think that there's going to be some coefficients underneath that, and probably more like that. I do not accept, as a national MP, that the Serbian government will take over the bat on a total of 110,000 educational workers. If we eliminated the union, as a participant in solving the problems of employees in education, means there are no collective agreements, who is it, if not the MPs, who will take care of all the employees of the state services? I am surprised that 20 or 30 employees in the Serbian government should assume, at the very least, burden and obligation, as well as responsibility for the schedule in the paying classes of this number of employees. I believe that coefficients should be made and delivered here to the MPs, that we can influence and put education within the scope of all civil servants. Only in this way is it acceptable to see it in education, in health care, and in other important services. I'm not going to say that they're not all important, but these are two services that were neglected and in the previous period, these are two services that are essential, besides the military, militia, etc. for the functioning of the country. Who's playing with people in education? Dear colleagues, I'm surprised, we have a lot of educators here in the Assembly, so that no one raises their voice in the protection of their colleagues. We are, first of all, employed in this profession, not as MPs. When I get there, I want to tell my enlighteners that's what's waiting for them. Does anyone in this material see what I can explain to them? So you can't see it and you don't want to see it. On the other hand, they're wondering -- what kind of pay will be for the May month, now, as it's paid, there's nothing resolved, everyone's spinning around in circles. Let the Ministry of Finance go ahead and give an explanation for May. Like this, we get into a situation, look, a couple of coefficients. I think we should have gone the other way - to relieve services like health care, education and so forth. at the end of the People's Parliament, the Serbian President of Serbia's government. It is a order of concern for the MPs and concerns of the citizens towards these professions and towards youth, according to health care, towards all the people who are employed there. If we just take care of ourselves and talk about it, without these categories of employees, I don't think we're gonna get far. I propose that for educational workers, health workers, complete delivery coefficients to the Assembly for consideration and not to be the subject of the Serbian government, individualised to decide on this fate, to come here before the Serbian Parliament, to let the MPs, as a body, decide - what is the place where these works are in the next period. In that sense, I suggest that the National Assembly be declared in the end and that this law be complemented by these acts.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8788	The word has the People's MP Ljubomir Mucic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8789	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, given that the time for discussion has been cut short, and that in the last sitting we have talked a lot about this topic and salaries in state authorities and public services, which has partly and produced fruit in this amended text of the law, but most of the things proposed here have been half proposed. At least to appreciate part of those remarks, which were last time highlighted. First, I have to say that Article 7 is the basis of this law, given that the three things that make up the salary of the persons covered by this law are the basics, the coefficient with which the multiple bases and the pay additions, which are provided here. I have to say, really, that it's very difficult to estimate the coefficients that are listed here, but I can say that nobody at this point really knows what his salary will be, until there's a base based on which to calculate the receipt. I would also like to point out that for these elected persons, who are here in the proposal, the government has established a majority ranging from 7-15, where for the President of the Republic the coefficient is 15, and for the judge of the municipal court and the deputy municipal public prosecutor is 6.90, and from these categories it has performed certain categories of employees, i.e. elected and appointed persons in municipalities, or cities. I would also like to say, for the appointed persons in cities, municipalities -- their salaries are mainly related to salaries of officials of the government of the Republic of Serbia or the secretary of the ministry, or the head of the district and the secretary of the ministry in this law and in these coefficients are not mentioned anywhere. Also, if we take the base of 1,000 dinars, the salary of the President of the Republic would be 15,000, and 6,900 would be paid by the judge of the municipal court. In view of the fact that, always so far, in determining the salary, it has moved from the lowest categories that have been protected through minimum personal income, this time through a guaranteed salary that must be paid. I think these categories that are foreseen here and these coefficients that are provided for in Article 7 will lead to certain disproportionateities, because the lowest category has so far had a coefficient of 1 - 1.2 in municipal services. This Article 7 covers about 10,000 employees in state authorities, and for the other 410,000 governments, together with municipalities, then other public services, it is up to the public to determine the coefficients, as well as the secretaries of municipalities, i.e. the directors and secretaries of public services, to establish salaries for those who are to receive them. I don't understand Article 4, how the coefficient will contain a supplement to the name of the food allowance in the course of work and regression for the use of annual holidays. I don't understand how that can be determined by the coefficient. Article 13 and Article 14 also did not point out in the previous law, and I find it unclear that healthcare workers who received one or two months' fees on the name of the annual vacation regress, that by the end of the year and those 200 dinars should be returned to six months' war. I really don't understand that the provisions of this law will make it look that way. It should be worth it to those who haven't been paid so far. I think that this member, I have suggested through the amendment, about using the regress for the vacation, I think that the largest number of those who have had the funds so far have paid off, and those who have not, should be allowed through this law to pay it off. Article 14, someone's gonna keep their salary, if it's bigger, by the end of the year at this level, and someone's pay still needs to grow. So there are certain problems under the application of this law, and I have to ask what about those public services that are getting paid out of the budget, and they haven't had the funds to pay their personal income in the last three months? I've been an employee of the Colubary County Construction Directorate since the New Year's Eve, and we haven't received any personal income from January to this day, and I didn't want to receive any pay here either. So I ask the government next time that we're billing wages under the new system, providing funds to be provided to employees, and also to all those to whom this Directorate and this Government owe, to be transferred to pay their personal incomes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8790	The word has the People's MP Stevan Ž. Gudurić, followed by the MP Krstic Emilia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8791	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we are talking about the Law of Payments and we have not received any divine better proposal than the one we had at the previous or last session. There's no basic thing - that all of us who need to push a button here, that we can tell those who care about these salaries at least how much they're going to pay. It doesn't exist here, so we can say why we push the button and how much does it amount to. Secondly, we're talking again -- "move" -- that everyone who works with the same school equipment should have the same salary. It won't be a good criterion. Because the criteria should depend on the environment in which they work and on how they are received in that environment. The same bad criterion is the population criterion for local self-government, because according to this, automatically, those who have below 60,000 will have a small salary. And those who are in Belgrade, large, whether they are doing good or bad in that environment or whether they contribute to improving the conditions in the middle or supplementing those conditions. Because it would be normal, if word were to be made and trumpeted to do decentralisation, that local self-government in that part had some rights that would depend on how it works and what the average conditions of the environment are. Because basically, someone who lives in Beocino shouldn't be concerned about what the person who lives in Subotica is doing and what his salary is like. Let Subotic divide against her own possibilities, but Beoc's against her own. Therefore, I, unlike one of my colleagues who refrained from commenting on the salary of the MPs, will comment on that salary, since I am an MP, but I am not an MP who receives the salary here, so I can comment on it. Well said, that's embarrassing. And you, who will vote this law here, can baptize it however you wish. It is a shame that the MP in this ranking should be the ninth in line, since except for the president of the Republic, only the People's MPs choose the people in Serbia, and everyone else is being appointed and working on some of the criteria established by this National Assembly. We are MPs, even if we are the worst there are, but Serbia is not better at this moment. Therefore, it is a shame for the MP to settle, and I will again compare that category of president of the municipality with 60,000 inhabitants. If you're not embarrassed by DOS, I am, no matter what I don't get that salary. I've never been an MP before, but they say an MP once had a salary similar to a minister. Think about it, because the ones who made this are the ones that you and we chose together. Could that government in this way underestimate the MPs, be the nine holes in the play? Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8792	The word has the People's MP Emilija Krstic, followed by the MP Alexander Vukic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8793	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is on the agenda of the draft law on salaries in state bodies and public services, which regulates the way in which salaries and other incomes are determined in state bodies and public services. The reasons that point to the need to regulate this area, about all of them cited by the Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government, lies in impaired pay-level relations for tasks of the same complexity resulting from the lack of a legal basis to be applied to the pay-out of salaries in the state authorities. After the expiry of the Law on Salaries in the State Authorities, it did not go beyond the provisions of the Labour Relations Act in the State Authorities, but was continued with the account and payment of wages by the coefficients set out in the Law on Salaries. As regards wages in public services, the provisions of a special collective contract which were violated in practice were used. All of this highlighted the need to regulate irregularities and errors in the treatment of employees in this area with concrete legislation. In addition to Serbia's government's intention to co-ordinate pay levels for individual jobs with this law, there is a need to establish a balance between salaries in state authorities, on the one hand, and public services, on the other. In addition to these reasons, which are due to the fact that they are, the reasons stemming from so far adopted legal projects, which, of course, draw with them and the need to further define and regulate the accounting and pay systems in this area. Namely, these are the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Labour Relations Act, the Law on Public Revenue and Public Expenditure and the Law on the Budget of the Republic of Serbia for 2001. I cannot agree with the statements of some opposition MPs, that this law confirmed centralised, or that it was not a decentralisation, as the Democratic opposition of Serbia promised, because in the case of the government as an employer, it establishes a hierarchy order in which each member of the order of employees has its place. I don't see the introduction of a order like this being centralized. What is the interest of Serbian citizens, especially those employed in these areas, and what needs to be pointed out, and what is regulated by this law. Salaries shall be established in the public authorities and public services, and on the basis of this, as referred to in Article 2. - "the basics for the calculation of salaries, the coefficient which is multiplied by the base, the salary allowance and the obligation paid by the employee on the basis of taxes and contributions". Article 7 clearly sets out the coefficients, previously stated, moving in the range of 6.9 to 15. Namely, the height of these coefficients depends directly on the complexity of work, on responsibility and working conditions. At the same time, they also contain a food allowance during work and a regress for an annual vacation. In Article 9, where the coefficients for the account and payment of salaries of elected persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government and the pay coefficients of the persons placed in the same person are defined, it is not possible to agree with some remarks that they are limited, i.e. that the Government has specifically determined the height. Because here it says "that for elected persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy, in the city of Belgrade, the highest coefficient for the calculation and payment of the salary of the vice-president of the National Assembly, which is 10.50". In all the items below, the coefficients go up to certain coefficients. It means that there is a certain range, that is, a certain limit that cannot go beyond. This law also provides for a mechanism for the determination of coefficients in these cases for specific calls and occupations of employees in these areas. In addition, Article 12 found the possibility that public services, depending on the level of income achieved, could increase employees' salaries to 30%. (President: Time. ) All of this points to the fact that, after the adoption and application of this law, the government will introduce order into the system of accounting and income in these areas, and in its work on this project, the government has recorded the existing situation, defined and located all the problems and discrepancies and set off from these points in the making of this law, which should be a sure assumption of its quality. From these points of view, as a DSS MP in this House, I think we should uphold this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8794	The People's Messenger Aleksandar Vukic has the word, and after him, the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8795	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the SRS, or its parliamentary group, when this bill was first discussed in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, had a number of objections and submitted the largest number of amendments. Some of them were adopted, but due to the disagreement of amendments adopted by the Committee with the initial text of the law, the law had to be withdrawn. I only said this because of the incomprehension in the work of journalists, who have been following this session and disinforming the public, as well as the works of the public who couldn't denigrate into everything that was going on. So, with this new draft law on salaries in state authorities and public services, I would say that some of the remarks of the SRS parliamentary group have been accepted and that something different has been proposed. But not essentially. I would say, first of all, that it is some kind of external change that should in a manifesto deter opposition MPs from criticizing this law and absolutely nothing more. The president of the National Assembly, as we have seen in the material, has submitted one amendment, but which speaks of the essence of the law itself. He is bound by Article 3 of the proposed law and deals with the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries established by the Government. I can have an understanding for the Government of the Republic of Serbia, who wants in a simple way to control all financial flows, all the sources of money, the one that is being paid, that everything is known and that it is, as they like to say, transparently when the government does. But what I can't understand is that the government is taking over the powers and prerogatives of the legislative authority or that in such a way it can be someone who represents a defining factor in the functioning of the supreme legislative body in our country. Of course, when it comes to the balance of power, above all by the legislative and executive authorities, it is always understood that the legislative authority must be provided with something higher power, because it is the legislative authority that prescribes the conditions, both formally and materially, for the functioning of the executive authorities. Our second principled and very significant observation is that the coefficients have moved, I would say, from the tail, from what perhaps, when we list these functions, seems most important, but from what is of the least importance to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. In fact, we believe that it was much more important to go from the work of health services, from the salaries of educators, to the incomparably significant, than to how much and what coefficients the President of the Republic, the President of the National Assembly and all the other top state officials would be. Speaking of which, the coefficients for them are foreseen, given the position and role of the President of the Republic in our country, we have a buffalo executive power. So we have the President of the Republic and the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Of course, the president of the Republic of Serbia, primarily because of the way in which the elections are made, and these are the direct elections that give him more legitimacy than even the government itself, which was chosen only by most MPs, the assembly majority, should have a slightly greater coefficient than, say, the National Assembly president and the Prime Minister. But it can't certainly be for three index points, as it says here, but it could be for half or one index point, and no more than that. I have also submitted the amendment as a People's MP and, I think, another member of the SRS parliamentary group, where we have asked for the equalisation of the coefficient of the president of the permanent working body of the National Assembly, the president of the parliamentary group, the Supreme Court judge and the deputy of the Republic Public Prosecutor, with the President of the Senior Court of Commerce. It seems to us that it's something completely logical, something completely normal. I'm sure the parliamentary majority, the DOS majority in this National Assembly, will accept it. Another disagreement with the representatives of the authorities - DOS, as well as the representatives of the SPS, which I have listened to today, as regards Article 9 and the coefficient for the account and payment of the salaries of elected persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy and local self-government. In fact, we do not believe that this difference should be made on salaries for elected persons in municipalities with over 60,000 inhabitants and those in municipalities with a smaller population, where it is determined that up to 90% of what is foreseen by the government act can be the most. (President: Time. ) So we think that this will only encourage negative migration flows in our country. Today, we have a large number of municipalities where the secretaries of the municipalities under the law would have to have the least completed Law School, and they don't have Law School. It seems to me that such municipalities are more than 30 today in Serbia, perhaps more, but in any case by this legal act, this bill will not prevent it, and it seems to me, on the contrary, that we will go to the highest knowledge and quality in smaller municipalities, and everyone will somehow want to come from the inside to Belgrade, to come to Novi Sad, to Nis, to come to the largest cities, the largest centres, because even where an expert is sought, it will have a much better reception and much better conditions than anywhere else. Article 10, no matter how hard I tried to understand it, I failed. Maybe I'm not smart enough. Whoever proposed this bill seems more qualified and smarter, but I hope next time they make it so that those MPs, who usually understand all the laws, can understand it. I call on you not to accept this law or to accept at least in the most part the amendment of the Serbian Radical Party MPs, but also other MPs who have purposed and exceeded, in the debate on details.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8796	The People's Messenger Vitomir Plužarević has the word, and after him is the Messenger Branislav Blažić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8797	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law has so far been treated on several occasions in 1991, 1995, 1996, and has been valid until the end of 1997. Today is the second time before us MPs and we have already discussed this law, but today it has decidently set coefficients, or value elements. This law was on the agenda and in the previous assembly, as it did after the adoption, he lived several days and because of the reactions of the citizens and peoples, he was withdrawn, or he did not live. I wouldn't comment on it now, which were the criteria that were in that law at the time. And this law, which is on the agenda today, is poorly projected, or not decidently said who, how and how much it should receive, will already regulate that government or someone else. Article 3 of this law has a bad set-up, which is that the Government gives the basis for the calculation. That part of the government takes on itself as if it's all-powerful. I think this article is going to change, and I've already seen it in certain amendments, but it's my duty to highlight it in my discussion, so this member needs to suffer radical changes. I expected this law to be laid before all these laws that we so far have voted for a number of reasons. This law covers about 420,000 people who work in bodies and services, so that it also gives the obligation to adopt it as soon as possible, or should already be adopted. The judiciary, the schooling and everything that is related to this law doesn't work, we saw it today from the presentation of a number of MPs when we discussed the judiciary. The amount of people being admitted to justice is below the level of doing this delicate job. Strikes by schools, colleges were also recorded, and that was a signal, or sign that this law had to be passed before. This law requires the regulation of the highest or lowest level of income in people employed in these bodies, and it is also related to the gross principle of the budget, so this is also one of the indicators that this law should have already been passed. The debate on these issues has a political aspect and today's Assembly needs to come up with quality proposals, so that things that happened in the previous period do not happen again. I mean public and citizen harassment. This law does not fully determine the conditions for earning profits, but only in principle. The government took the right to give certain coefficients, i.e. to be the bearer of all these activities. With this law, the government reserves its right to determine the heights of health and education by regulations. That's not good. The minimum or maximum salary should be determined and on the basis of these salaries regulated for each group individually. The President of the Republic must be at the level of the President of the Assembly and the Prime Minister, i.e. that index of 15 should be corrected to index 12 and 13 respectively. Then this level must move necessarily for everyone, for the Prime Minister and the Minister, that is, they must not make a big difference in these relations. The coefficient for legislative and judicial authority under this law determines the government and the question is whether this is good. By modeling other democracies, it must be possible for the judiciary to have autonomy in determining wages. This will also lead to autonomy in determining court proceedings. In Article 9, paragraph 2, point 1, 2, 3 and 4, I suggest that this article be deleted and I have submitted the amendment to it. Before the law was passed, there were various comments by DOS leaders -- such as who wants to work in the government has to pay for it, because those places are historically established, so whoever wants to pay for it and get into that history -- and similar remarks concerning this law. It is likely because of such statements that this law has reached today. We Serbian radicals suggest that equalising public service employees, i.e. a category of civil servants be created with a classification scale. This would allow civil servants not all to work in Belgrade, i.e. salaries would be the same in Irig and Belgrade. With this bill, local self-government is not a quality regulation, and here I have objections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8798	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8799	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we already had this bill, and then it was returned after Mr Tomislav Nikolic's amendment. Some of the people at the top of the government suggested it, and then some of the other people at the top of the government came back, and we're adopting it again now. Obviously, we have this one conflict at the top of the government, and all the political crises in the countries started with the conflicts of individuals at the top of the government, because everyone seems to be taller than the equals, as George Orwell said in his book Animal Farm. Therefore, these criticisms that we have made earlier stand still today. We have the same principle again that the government wants to determine everything in this country. The government or DOS politburo, it is now another question that will really determine it, but in any case, such dictatorship has never brought any good, so neither will it bring Serbia. There are a lot of things that are really illogical and unfair in the range of salaries in government services. However, this way will certainly not be corrected. We will right some wrongs, but some new wrongs will be done. What's the point here is that they've brought coefficients, but basically there's nowhere to be found and it's left to the government to determine. Thus, the congregation will adopt a law, and it does not know what the wages will be to the people who work in the public ministry. The basics here had to be given in order to be able to know at the beginning what these salaries were, and then predict that at three months, according to the cost of living, they would normally grow and pay. Plata has one far higher value than what she represented herself here or how people want to present her and represent her in everyday life. The salary is nevertheless a reflection of the value of someone's work, the value of a man who works and contributes and cannot be said, if the salary is, say, a specialist of 6,7,000 dinars that it's the value of his work or that it's so socially worth it. It can be determined that he should have a salary of 20,000, and as much society as he can at some point give him, that's another story, but at least to know what his value is as a man or an individual and to say to him, you're so valuable, we give you this much, and we owe you what you're worth to make up for one day. So what is the essence of this extremely sensitive question is that nothing is being systemically solved. If we really want to correct these injustices that exist in health, education and all public services, we need to really systemically, based on serious criteria, make these ranges and determine how many people who work in these places need to. Considering the place of work, professional training, responsibility, quality and all that needs to be entered into a very serious system law, which in many ways would correct all the injustices we have today. However, we have not offered such a law, but we have a dry law in several members, which only give coefficients and which essentially change nothing. They're just putting off one problem and they're saying, no, all of it's gonna be done by the government someday, and when it's gonna be, we really don't know or we'll be able to know when and how it's gonna be. So what's the bottom line of this whole story is that this law needs to be put back on track again, to avoid the government rediscovering everyone and everyone in this country and in one broad debate, primarily civil servants, here I particularly mean health, education and others, to make the criteria and to correct the many injustices that we have today in society.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8800	The word has a folk MP Zlatan Jovanovic, and the next is Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8801	Ladies and gentlemen, a month ago, we discussed a project like this. We expected that today would be a much better proposal. However, these expectations have obviously not been met. As serious as the government is, and as seriously as it takes all this, it's also evidence that these first benches that are empty again, there's no one from the government. He was the only one, Mr. Batic, probably kept here unplanned for a little while longer, so he read several passages from the reasoning of this bill and then left this room. There is not even a president of a parliamentary majority group here, who might listen to us and pass on some of our suggestions to the government in order to make this law more quality. I suggest that this law be withdrawn from the procedure again, that once, but now really, very well worked out, all aspects be considered to finally come before the Members of Parliament the third time with a more comprehensive and quality project. The law is still confusing, vague and incomplete. And last time I asked what happened to public enterprises, what about profits in these companies and the representative of the DOS parliamentary group said that it was true that there are problems of this type, problems with the profits of these companies, which are enormous for these conditions, which are much bigger than average earnings in the Republic of Serbia, but that the government somehow put it under control by one of its regulations a few months ago. I must remind both the MPs and the public that this regulation was in place, that it was brought months ago, that it came into force, that this regulation of wages in public enterprises was frozen at the level reached. However, ten days ago, a new regulation by the government of the Republic of Serbia put the previous regulation out of force in one part, i.e. the salaries of employees in public enterprises are again out of control of the government. The second question I'm asking here and last time I've asked, it seems to me that I've been given the consent of the president of the DOS parliamentary group, and the promise to make it right is a matter of technical nature, a question of the very title of this law. Namely, this is about government salaries, and we've been talking about profits for the past few months. I don't get it now, if we've moved on to profits, which include everything and everything, from a warm meal, a regression and other fees, why we're going back to the payday now. Isn't there talk of public service employees' earnings here, in public administration? Article 3 of this proposal states that it is the basis for accounting, for the government to determine the salary. Again, the same question remains, the fundamental question, again the government is above all in this country, again the government is making all the salaries in this country, it determines the basis. I ask the question why the basis was not established by law, why no parameter was adopted on the basis of which the base will be changed, why it is not related to some parameter, let's say for average earnings, minimum earnings and some other parameter in circulation. Article 7 defines the coefficients for certain categories of employees to which this law applies. But if you look at it, these are the coefficients for the categories of employees that are on the highest places on the scale, which should receive the highest salaries in this country. On the other hand, their number is minimal compared to the total number of employees in this sector. The question arises, why is this law not regulated coefficients for other employees...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8802	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8803	I'm sorry, if I can just overstep. Why aren't these laws defined coefficients for other public service employees and public administrations? Why are payment classes not legally established, why is it not precisely stated how much the profits of educators, professors, teachers, teachers, professors, university professors are, why is it not stated by the law how much profits are made by doctors, specialists and other healthcare professionals? Why calls and occupations are not established by law, but all of this remains in the government, that it determines and regulates all of this. Article 9 states that the coefficients for the calculation of payments selected and other persons in the bodies of territorial autonomy, local self-government, are to be determined at the most to the coefficients set by this law. It says now and lists some groups, but it does not stand here as a coefficient, only some of the upper limits are determined, but it is not known which organ determines these coefficients.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8804	Mr. Jovanovic, please finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8805	Finally, a certain limit has been established as regards local self-government, accounts for up to 60,000 and over 60,000 employees were defined. I'm interested, and it doesn't say here, which is the parameter, on which to determine which municipality belongs to one or the other group, whether it's a list of some years behind us or if it's some other document that should have been accurately determined here, to know whether there's going to be speculation on that basis, whether there's going to be artificial emigration. It should have been defined by this law. I'm sorry about the time-out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8806	The word has a folk MP, Dragoljub Stamenkovic, and the next is Mr. Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8807	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've just been reminded by my colleagues from DOS that I didn't say DOS is the worst and I say to this occasion, yes - DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8808	I give you a warning, Mr. Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8809	Well, of course, you're in DOS, too, right? The government again wants to show that it's the boss. Technically, the law is passed by the National Assembly, but the government decides everything. The government will decide on the basis of which to account for salaries for elected persons and so that the government wants to rule those who are to, by law and the Constitution, control it. But the main flaw in this bill is that it does not regulate public relations. What we advocate is that the same coefficients or roughly the same, or profits, apply to the same jobs both in Belgrade and Vranj, and in Nis, Surdulica, Vlasotinc, etc. Everyone strives to live better, to have a higher salary, and a great city magically attracts all people. There's a higher salary, better living conditions. On the other hand, it is the state's interest to equalise the quality of life in small areas, in palans, with life in Belgrade, Nis, Kragujevac etc. If you pay, for example. The general practice of doctors is much greater in Belgrade than in Surdulica or Nis, they will dig both hands and feet to come to the big city. If we equate or bring up profits for the same or similar occupations, with the same qualification, professional training, no one will want to force change the place of residence, so that, for example, in Doljevac we have a shortage of doctors, and in Belgrade, on the labour market, many of them are waiting for work. They will remain in their midst and will treat the citizens there, in the municipality from which they came and where they were previously educated. I don't know why the government is asking that municipalities with a number of residents of elected or appointed persons differ. Why would someone in a municipality who has twenty thousand inhabitants who does a fair and good job have a lower salary than, say, an appointed person in Nis? Of course, I'm not in favour of setting a salary of 24000,00 dinars, as in Merošina, and the chairman of the executive board 22.000,00 dinars. But the pay still needs to be decent, that anyone can live on that salary. Why am I trying to get paid evenly? Well, here, look at the municipalities in Nisawa County, there's not a dozen people with high school supplies. There, for a time, in one municipality, the same person performed the work of the president of the municipality and the executive council of the congregation because there was no person with a high professional standing to do so. We advocate that the government return this bill, respect the proposals of the Serbian Radical Party, and that we discuss these proposals and the bill again. Since you can't punish me anymore - DOS is really the worst.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8810	I can. I'm giving you another warning. The word has a representative of the Serbian Unity Party's parliamentary group, Mr Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8811	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, allow me to make three more objections to the draft bill on salaries in state authorities and public services. The first objection concerns Article 1. In that article, paragraph 5 states that this law regulates the way in which employees' salaries are determined in compulsory social insurance organisations. I think it's a mistake that has been subdued by the promoter, given that the organisations of mandatory social security are non-state organisations and are neither public service. They fall under the Pension and Disabilities Insurance Act and the Labour Relations Act. So these are laws that regulate this problem, since social security organisations do not fall under the term - state authority or - public service. It is a mistake most likely to be corrected by the government during the decision-making process. Also, Article 1 speaks of the government having to determine the salaries of the President of the Republic, the MPs, the Constitutional Court judges, judges of other courts, prosecutors, law enforcement authorities and all others. Today, however, the minister said in passing that the government has accepted the amendment of the National Assembly president, which virtually deletes this member and member of the 3rd, given that these amendments regulate salaries in a different way. The Management Board of the National Assembly shall establish the basis for the salaries of Members of Parliament and for the salary of the President of the Republic of Serbia. That's good. It is good because there will be no control over the executive authority over the legislation, or the government will not be able to control the salaries of MPs and presidents of the Republic of Serbia. But that's not enough. This is not entirely, since Article 1 speaks of the government as establishing salaries for both the Constitutional Court judges, judges of all other courts, as well as for the prosecution, the public prosecutor's office and the authorities for violations. If the government is allowed to establish salaries, basics and coefficients for judges, then questions are raised whether the government will also have control over the work of the judicial authorities. This also raises the question of judicial independence, since if the government determines the salaries of judges, the question is whether judges will be able to work independently and whether the government will be able to control them, if it does not like individual factors in the executive government. In addition, Article 3, which says that the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries is determined by the Government. But there's no telling how much that base is. This is a big problem, given that some parameters and some indicators must be found that will talk about how much will be the basis, not that the government determines by its act each month the basis for the calculation and payment of salaries. I don't think that's good. We simply don't know what we're discussing today, and what the salaries of officials in public authorities and public services will be. If that salary is, in fact, if the basis for that salary is the average monthly income, or average earnings, and it was a quarter of a million dinars last month, and if that is so, and we don't know if it's going to be so, then it's going to be enormously high salaries of government officials. For example, in that case, the salary of the President of the Republic will be 67.500,00 dinars, the salary of Prime Minister 45.900,00, as well as Minister 45.900,00, the salary of MP 38.700,00. I hope that this will not happen, that the government will act in accordance with its promise that the salaries of officials will be appropriate for the moment in which we live and the salaries of our voters. If the voter's salary is on average for last month, then I hope that the government will really have to find some acceptable parameter, or basis that will be acceptable. If that basis is guaranteed profit, which we have adopted in previous laws, if it is 30% of the guaranteed average wage, which is guaranteed earnings, then it will already be payments that are appropriate, so that the President of the Republic will in that case have a salary of 22,500,00 dinars. I know it's a big payday. Especially for what the President of the Republic is doing today, the present. But in any case, this is about an institution, not a personal solution, which is currently, of course, none of us are satisfactory, least for the citizens of Serbia. Therefore, I hope that the Government here will really have feelings and measures and that the wages will be appropriate for the moment we live in, but unfortunately from the bill of this law you can't see it absolutely. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8812	Thank you. The word has been given by the People's MP, Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8813	The President-in-Office, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is before us one more law that has been passed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia for the adoption of the Assembly. There was one on the Assembly's agenda, he was returned, and we expected that in many parts he would suffer changes, but that didn't happen. It is good that the government has put this issue on the agenda, as the proponent, Minister Batic, said there is a pay riot. Well Batic noticed that, because since you are in power in local administrations, salaries have increased to three times in certain municipalities. It is a little illogical that the Assembly chooses the government, and the government determines the Pay Assembly. Why is there an Administrative Committee of the Assembly, and it is logical that someone who chooses you determines your salary, and you report his work. Given that the government is a proposing, it is understood that it has provided for itself the greatest competences, i.e. to decide everything, and in this law she made sure she had a knife and cake in her hands. But when we look at, on the other hand, that this law will depend on the salaries of 420,000 employees in Serbia, we multiply by three members on average in the family, then we only see how seriously we need to approach this law and that about a million citizens will depend on the salary we set in the Assembly. When the law is looked at in general, it can easily be concluded that we get even more centralised from the promised decentralisation, even more than that, that two or three people decide everything. I don't understand why the government's pay commitment took place. If we know that the quality of the work depends on how the worker is rewarded for his work, why did the government make a commitment to decide who would receive the salary, from employees of local administrations in Merošina, Doljevac, Svrlig, Gajina Han, Aleksinac? It is not seen from Belgrade, one who is in direct contact with these people and who manages the municipality would probably decide more justly. And it's a little illogical for the executives to give you a job to the ranchers, and they don't have an impact on their pay. When determining the salary of employees, Article 2 reads (quote): "The public services may increase the salaries established in the sense of Article 1 to 30% on the basis of their own incomes". What that means is that it's possible that someone for one third of the salary can have more, depending on where the municipality works. Public services don't have production. Their production is to provide services to citizens. Whether to raise prices for services to citizens, through documents they issue, certificates, beliefs, various fees etc.? Will this increase of 30% again be paid by citizens, as long as and from where? In Article 5. Stands - sorting into pay groups. Why did the government not give in law and payment groups, but was left to make up the government's instructions on the application of the law, as it corresponds to the government. I wish the law was complete, that it contained all the elements related to the salary. And when we pass the law, everyone finds himself and can account for the pay, and explain it to the other, if they have needs. Individuals behind this speaker say the aim of this law is to introduce order in state authorities and public services in Serbia and that wages will be leveled. I claim that measures will be introduced in public services because not all work equally and in quality to receive equal wages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8814	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8815	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, last time the bill was before the Serbian Parliament, the bill was returned with clear objections and supplements, as an obligation for the government to add them to the new bill. The most important observation was by the SRS parliamentary group, or, more specifically, an objection which, through the amendment of Tomislav Nikolic, influenced the Assembly, or the parliamentary majority, to withdraw the previous law from the procedure, and the essence of that remark is that the Assembly, as a legislative body, regulates or determines the basis of the reception. We now have a new bill, which is essentially the same, not counting these cosmetic changes, starting with the first page, where instead of, which would logically be Minister Djelic, or someone who is resolute, say, nearly competent to explain such a law, the law defends and explains Minister Batic. It is not likely that such a proposal by the government predetermins - who will determine the coefficients, or more specifically, which ministry will be responsible. It didn't occur to anyone that the coefficients and base within the government, which should be determined by law, should be determined by the Ministry of Justice and local self-government. Apparently, gentlemen, even in the government, one who should represent such laws and such amendments and amendments to the law, feared responsibility, or for some other reason, that we would not enter into the nature of his fear, so he gave in to this minister, who is not resolute, has absolutely nothing to do with anything. Only if what's contained in the local self-government doesn't count. Namely, the following cosmetic changes are in coefficients. What was earlier, in the earlier proposal, is now multiplied by factor 2 and new coefficients have been received, except for the President of the Republic, where seven times two before, and that's fourteen, now the coefficient of fifteen is set. Which is why I stress this - for the simple reason why it looks at the seriousness of those who were tasked with carrying out the amendment and supplementing the earlier bill. So, it was done, as you would say, arbitraryly, with an eye, so-called. "sac to methodology." What is clear, meanwhile, is that an amendment by DOS representatives, which is essentially the same as the earlier proposed amendment by Tomislav Nikolic, will obviously change the nature, i.e. the essence of this proposed law. And now we need to talk and discuss the principle, and this is an amendment, since it has already been adopted by the parent committee, although it is a little strange, unanimously the Committee has adopted the amendment, but it is no wonder when it looks at who's signed down there -- the president of the Assembly is down there. It would be a surprise if the parent board refused something the president suggested, so it was just as limited as the president suggested. Limited in the sense that this amendment sets out that the Assembly is proposing a basis for the President of the Assembly, for MPs, or for legislative authority. It is explained that in the total fund available to the Assembly will be allocated and earned, not paid, gentlemen, because Djelic has convinced us here to move on to a new term, a new termology, where it is said - profits, not wages, since they are now gross earnings in play. Batic complained a little while ago (a good reminder of my colleague), complained earlier in the hallway -- where they put this on me, he says, I have no idea about this. Really, this is serious. Second, what is essential that this congregation requires? The essence required by this assembly (you colleagues, if I may say so, have prosthetic problems, you must go to replace that for a number of minor prosthetics, because you laugh so naturally) is that in this assembly we asked the Government to come out as soon as possible with the bill, which will regulate the receipts, i.e. the profits of those who work in public enterprises. The government, or representatives of the government, promised it. It's been enough time to come up with a bill, which, in addition to this, will regulate and earn money in public enterprises. Another fundamental observation was to regulate basics and factors, i.e. payment classes, more specifically, for those who work in education and health care. This is not demagogy, this is the clear attitude of the majority in this congregation. It's important to know what paid classes are, what are the benefits of educators. It is important to know what are the receipts and what is the pay grade of those who work in health care. We can't do that from month to month, from strike to strike, to leave it to individual ministers. As a result, the congregation decided, among other things, to supplement this law. What has been proposed is only a cosmetically corrected previous proposal that was before the Assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8816	The word has been made by MP Goran Cvetanovic, the next MP, Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8817	Ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, proposed by the law on salaries in state authorities and public services, are seen to be taking over the government of the Republic of Serbia, which primarily refers to the establishment of a base for the calculation of salaries and, in this case, does not relate to any parameters. The law empowers the government to establish the basis itself. This is, above all, contrary to the Law on the Labour Relations of the Republic of Serbia. In the draft law, when setting the coefficients for elected persons, the government used the existing Law on Salary in State Authorities, but it favoured certain categories. This applies first and foremost to the President of the Republic, to the Prime Minister, and also to the presidents of senior economic courts, as well as to the presidents of economic courts. Probably because the government will need the presidents of the courts, especially in the privatisation process. The Government has placed this paragraph in its jurisdiction to regulate the coefficients for appointed, appointed and employed persons in state bodies by a special act, which is inadmissible. Because payment classes and coefficients must only be established by law, not by government act. The legislative activity must have the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia as a legislative body, not that the Government of the Republic of Serbia assumes the role of legislator. The government cannot act by regulations, because these ambitions of the government are inappropriate in any case. The way the coefficients are determined by pay is universal, there is no relationship between work results and coefficients and there is no interest in employees to have the best results of work. The bill is primarily detimulative. This way of determining wages is made "uranilovka", but this does not provide the full responsibility of employees, above all, in public institutions. The SRS advocates establishing the rights, obligations and responsibilities of each employee, and this certainly cannot be done by this law proposed by the government. The law certainly will not introduce order by crossing in a uniform way of receiving wages. Depending on the transition to the coefficient system in this field of social work, it has moved on to the gross salary system, but in a specific way, the coefficient height reflects the compensation for food and regression for the use of annual holidays. This should be borne in mind by all MPs, as well as public service employees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8818	The word has the People's MP Dragan Colic, let the MP Gordana Pop - Lazic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8819	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this is a very sensitive issue that the Government has imposed on the MPs of the National Assembly with a poor bill of wages in state bodies and public services. It can be seen immediately that the government of the Republic of Serbia wants to seize and what should not belong to it and give itself too many rights. The totalitarian ambitions of the government should be stalled. The government suggests that the president of the Republic of Serbia has 50% higher salary than the minister, and both are representatives of the executive government. Also, the pragmatic pay ratio between the Prime Minister and the ministers who are in a subordinate position is puzzling. By this bad bill, the government determines the salary of the judicial authorities, puts them under its control, and the government should not do so. The government of the Republic of Serbia wants to put MPs of the National Assembly under its control. It is illogical that the President of the State has a coefficient of 15, the President of the National Assembly and the Prime Minister of 12. The salaries of the Head of State, the Prime Minister and the President of the National Assembly should be equalised. One serious bill must contain payment classes for all public service employees. Why would a minister in the government pay more than a vice president of the state university? Salaries must be regulated by a law that would clearly, without improvisation, regulate this area. Why should the government determine the basis, the government is burdened with other problems, so it should be disbursed and not leased and its control and judiciary, and the MPs and even local self-government. What does the government want in the area of local self-government, why do municipalities in Serbia share large and small (those of 60,000 inhabitants and those who have more)? The government proposes to determine the ratio between the largest and lowest salary in the municipality, i.e. the highest salary is four to five times the lowest. It is an elemental democratic right that the local self-government authority determines salaries without the government having any effect on that. Why would the MP have a lower salary than the judge of a commercial court? All these strong arguments prove that this time the Government of the Republic of Serbia came before MPs of the National Assembly with a bad bill, which should be withdrawn from the assembly procedure. I am convinced that she herself is aware of how bad the bill on salaries in state authorities and public services is, but that because of her incomparability and indifference to solve accumulated economic and social problems, the National Assembly faces several times absurd and unquality laws. What will the citizens of Serbia say when they hear that for the government of the Republic of Serbia, the most important thing is to double the salary of the President of the Republic? The President of the Republic is not in office at all, so it is therefore necessary to reward him. The indignation of Serbian citizens will be skillfully channeled and controlled through its strictly controlled and censored democratic media. They will read about this in the way the government wants and wants, and if you are skilled in deception and lies, you may convince citizens of the correctness of the extremely bad bill. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I urge you not to support the government's intention that we, the representatives of the people, be underestimated and put under your control. The government should withdraw the proposed law from the assembly procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8820	The word has the People's MP Gordana Pop - Lazic, let the MP Dusan Cvetkovic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8821	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, how much the government's interest in what the National Assembly will say about such an important bill shows that there are no government representatives in the Assembly. Well, not even the one who was appointed prime minister, Prime Minister Vladan Batic. It is obvious that the DOS majority in the Assembly will vote this law, but it is our duty to say what we resent. We'll remind, and the public knows, because she's life-interested, that once before, a similar law was in the procedure of the National Assembly, in the last session. He was withdrawn from the procedure due to numerous amendments and shortcomings, we asked him to be more comprehensive, we asked that the government not interfere in the work of the legislative body, or the Assembly, that the Assembly should decide on how much will be the basis and coefficients for all employees of state bodies and public services, or all those on the budget of the Republic of Serbia. However, the previous law had three less members, the new law has three more members. Nothing at all. When we start to clean society up from all kinds of negativity, we start from the tail, and when we talk about wages and we want to specify them, then we start from the head and from the President of the Republic, and so on. I don't think we should be attached to individuals who are currently in individual functions and that we need to talk very seriously about what relationships in coefficients should exist between individual functionaries. But the citizens of Serbia are of little interest. There's only 250 of us here, so even if we have no idea how high they pay, it's no big damage to the state. But 420,000 people work in public services, in education, in health care, waiting for what we're going to say here, and when we get out on the street, they're going to ask us what they're going to pay. We cannot tell them under this law - they will pay you so much and so much. First, we don't know what the base is. That foundation can't be determined by anyone else, but by the government, I guess. But it must be written in the law -- the government will determine on this and that, on the basis of some constant, that this Parliament will agree on what it will be. It can't depend on whether the government gets that promised donation or not, so it depends on what the salaries of the educators will be. It depends on what the salaries of educators are, and much on how our children will be educated. Furthermore, it depends on how much healthcare workers pay, and it depends on how we are treated and how we receive health care. I guess we're all interested in doing it in an adequate, comprehensive way and not playing around here anymore of the legislation, that one such important law on salaries in state bodies, and we call them "pays", because it seems that Minister Batic did not agree with the rest of the government or did not follow the previous session of the Assembly, that these are now earnings. As we can see, we didn't agree on whether it was the dinars or the new dinars, because again we got a bill that says "new dinars," and in the last session, we said there were no more new dinars, but only dinars. So no one in the government seems to be talking to anyone. You do not believe in Gaš Knezevic, that he edits the coefficients for the employees of education. You do not believe in Minister Joksimovic, that together with Vladan Batic, he arranges the salaries of health employees. We really don't. That's why I'm telling the employees not to write well, that they won't be satisfied with their salaries. The wages will not be as much as they expected and as much as they were promised. The proportions will be large, from city to city, from place to place, with all the negative consequences that go with it. But in that case, let them stand before the government and direct their strikes towards them. We, in the National Assembly, pointed to all failures and our conscience is peaceful. How strong we are, we've done so much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8822	The People's Messenger Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of Zivodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8823	The Honorable Presidency, esteemed colleagues and fellow MPs, is the fact that for two and a half years we have been living without the law on salaries in state authorities, because on January 1, 1998, such a law ceased to apply. Also, the fact is that in a short period of time, for the second time, we have this legal proposal ahead of us. We from the opposition, we must confess, we have calculated that the withdrawal of the last bill from the procedure created a normal atmosphere both in the work of parliament and in relation to the government towards parliament, and in the first place I mean by the opposition. Realising this as a gesture that the parliamentary majority and the government have gone into serious co-operation and that they accept the good amendments of the MPs, who are trying to improve legislative proposals in some way, we expected to find a legal proposal before us today that will be, I would say, completely transparent. However, something else is happening. This bill is no better. Or, he's only in certain elements better. The fact is that he removed what were the main objections to the opposition, that he agreed the bill with the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia. But this is not based again on the government's proposal, but on the fact that the Honorable President of the Assembly, Mr Marsican, helped in his amendment to help in Article 3, the part concerning the fact that the Government of the Republic of Serbia has absolute authority over this parliament, that it dictates to it, has returned to the Parliament's jurisdiction. Thus, the president of the Republic of Serbia, the national MPs and all the bodies elected in the Assembly are now in power of the Assembly, not in the government's jurisdiction, as envisaged. They have been made, in addition to these compliance with the Constitution, some other changes, which must be particularly proud of our fellow vice president, because what was referred to as Vojvodina has been cast out of this proposal. However, this legislative proposal, as I said last time, is an equation with four unknown downs to two unknowns, but only in certain parts, and that, setting out the coefficients for the selected persons referred to in Article 1(1). These coefficients are relative and everyone has an opinion on them. But everything else that's financed from the budget is now reduced, I'd say, to an even greater unknown. This primarily refers to education and health care. The earlier proposal, which we criticised and returned to doraza, had both the basics and the addition to the salary and the classification of the pay grade, and now the government is simply that equation with four unknown constraints on itself, that it solves all of this according to that Article 8. Now the government will, by its act, probably by the way people behave in education and health care, all those who finance in this way, if they are completely loyal, give all the coefficients, the government will assign them such pay classes, and if they strike and if they behave as non-response to the government, it will put them in a second position, very negative. In this act of government, which provides for payment classes according to titles, professions and jobs, I'm only under the impression that there was another word missing -- "likeness". It's very interesting when tomorrow, not me who's just a mortal, but when the President of the Assembly or vice president of the Assembly returns to their Vojvodina and is asked by one of the professors or one of the doctors, how much personal income will they have, how will they answer? Because the government will cover that the personal incomes of both my children and my fellow professors and my fellow doctors have been determined by the Assembly. When I come to my Leskovac tomorrow, I have absolutely nothing to say to them. I don't know, Zoran, I don't know. You probably know, because you're in cahoots with Mr. Djindjic. I'm not. You probably know that. (President: Time. My Leskians do not expect Zoran from Lazarets to tell them, but to tell them. So I have to express this dilemma that's most obvious. Since time has already expired, let me just say that the coefficients in Article 9 that are determined according to the number of residents for the presidents of the municipalities, I don't think they're real, because no one can convince me that the president of the small municipality of Vlasotince, of the twenty thousand people, has fewer problems than our president of the municipality in Leskovec, given the dissension of the municipality, given the torments that this undeveloped region has. That's why I think this bill had to be really more transparent, so it could be adopted by the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8824	The People's Messenger of Živodarka Dacin has the word, and the Messenger of the people, Božidar Vujic, afterwards.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8825	Dear President, dear fellow Members of the People, these problems are really very much spoken of last time, and I would like to give my consideration to two specific things. It is certain that in these 420,000 workers covered by this law, the largest number works in the field of health, education and culture. It is also clear that it is precisely defined coefficients for election posts from the President of the Republic, and it is clear that the Government is the one who will determine the basis for the calculation of the coefficient, and thus the profits. On the one hand, I was very pleased with the fact that everyone working in the areas of public enterprises will finally be set up with the same archaic. Simply because of the difference, especially when it comes to local self-government, there were differences between the municipality and the municipality, so it happened to us that some of the elected persons had, say, a salary of four to five salaries of specialists, which I think is really wrong, regardless of the responsibilities that only the chosen person had, without having to do with the expertise. I simply thought that there would be improvement, and what we're always looking for will come true, that people with the lowest incomes in the fields of health, culture and education will climb on which scale more and more normally live. If this were to be done, given that we have brought a large number of laws in this assembly so far, and I also see that the future is being prepared, we are being retroactively, I wonder if we would also have brought this law retroactively, because I think that a large number of elected persons in the local self-government are getting very nice advances from October 5th to today, and many of them could be working for the next year, a year and a half free of charge, so that doctors, educators and people employed in culture could get those benefits. But on the other hand, what was depressing to me is an explanation that states that the provision of Article 13 represents a transitional solution and aims to make nominal amounts out of current salaries, which, possibly by applying the new coefficients, should be lower, kept at the found level until the corresponding salaries under the provisions of the law reach the found level. I wonder what this means out loud, and I will present it very specifically to you. I don't know how much of a foundation the government will bring in, but I do know that the health base by June 1st was 605 dinars, and now after June 1st, when it's in circulation of gross earnings up to 868 dinars. I know that the immediate coefficient, according to the general collective contract of doctors of general practice, is 7.8, that his salary, when he was calculating net earnings, was 4.719 dinars, and now, when he's calculating gross earnings, is 4.595.71 dinar, which means that the basic earnings for 120 and some dinars are less. If these work conditions are added to all of this, the additions that followed the complexity of the work that it is doing will mean that all in the field of health will have significantly less income. So what we talked about here, as we warned, was that moving on to gross earnings does not mean a significant increase, i.e. there is no, no insignificant, no significant increase for all workers employed in the field of health, education and culture. I don't think any of this face class expected us all to really think we should go for the better. I'll never be a man for anyone's salary to be reduced, especially today when life is so hard, when we know how much one consumer basket is for the family, when we know what taxes and everything we have to pay, when we know that health care professionals are very difficult to educate just one child without saying how much money it takes to treat a pensioner or to operate a patient. By reading recently, I've come across a strengthening thought that says there's no situation that can't get out, there's only people who are losing hope. Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's not let Serbia become a country of people with lost hope, and that is already a sufficient number and at least a good part between these 420,000 employees in this area. And how many others are left!
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8826	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word, and after him is the last to be declared speaker, the Messenger of the people, Slobodan Janjic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8827	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we are having a debate on a single legal project, which is actually a third version. As much as your memory serves, and I believe it serves you, gentlemen MPs, two months ago we got our first version. Before the Parliament's session, which was to be held to discuss the law, the government withdrew the first version, offering a second version. That other version was a little washed, a little cosmetically dressed, a little made-up, some hairs and a little slanty pearls were put on. During that debate on the second version of the same law when it went to work on amendments, makeup melted, hairs fell off, the law was bare. One of the amendments tabled by the Serbian Radical Party MPs -- and which you, gentlemen, are MPs, because of the power of the arguments under the amendment, not by means of the arguments of power that you, by majorising, are trying to bring into this assembly -- that law led to the government's having to withdraw that version. We're having a discussion today about the third version. The same makeup again, the hair again, the cosmetics again, nowhere else. The third version of the same thing and, look at that, from who, from people who were elected to this word assembly a hundred days ago, we got an expert government. Really expert, ironic or great. Three times in a hundred days about the same thing. And not just expert, she's a really transparent government. It shows how expert this transparency of hers is for the third time in a hundred days that we're discussing something that's important and the government can't offer. We'll come again, as much as tomorrow, to discuss the amendments and we believe that at least someone from the government will come here, and they'll tear back and remember and withdraw this third version of this same bill. What's wrong with this third version? It is no good that the government wants to decide for itself again, which again the government first, which was elected by this assembly, denies the trinity in the principles of parliamentary democracy, and you say that democracy has arrived in Serbia only with you. The government denies this parliament's legislative role. Through Article 3, which we have spoken to you in the previous version and which you are now offering again, and even opposition MPs are offering the correction of that Article 3, enough is seen how much the government is denying this Parliament's legislative role. She also wants it to be a legislative body and it's executive, and eventually it's judicial. That's what's wrong. What else is wrong? It's no good that the government brought the coefficients. "Democratic government", which denies the market, the legality of the market, the logic of better and smarter. The pay classes of socrealism are reintroduced, in the style of communism, which you want to criticize, but you seem to be the product of those defeated forces at that eighth session, so you re-introduce us to the constituency, offer us paying classes again, pay classes to which the government introduces the principle of negation, the negation of what should be normal in one society. This is the employees' interest in achieving certain work results. They'll all be carried out under one hat, so what God gives us. It will likely show what a moment it is in Serbia, but thanks to you now, even more than October 5th, from the revolutionary, Soviet committees to today. A third thing, which is why this law, or this third version, is not good, which is why you deny the existence of reality in municipalities, in the state of Serbia. Let's say that you took some other parameters, territorial understanding of municipalities, degree of economic development in these municipalities, results, and these municipalities, non-resolvement of social and other problems. And you're the only parameter of the number of living heads, which is whether the 1991 census or someone is going to estimate how many people live today, so the government is going to say, well, this is up to 60,000, and this isn't. I'd just like to say one more thing. The government has taken it to decide on 400,000 employees in this country, in the sphere of health, culture and education. It is the only one who will decide, not this congregation. This is all why this legislative project should be withdrawn, and by the power of the arguments through tomorrow's debate on amendments, Serbian radicals will be able to prove it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8828	The People's Messenger Slobodan Janjic has the word. Anybody else answer for a word? No, I don't. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8829	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I would like to thank the Minister of Finance for being able to separate himself from the bar from the lobby and honor me as the last speaker, since he had some important business in the hall of the assembly, in the buffet. The theme is to get you out of power as soon as possible. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, from the very formation of your phantom government, which you have announced is expert, we have seen that only some of the characters with socks over the head of the arrest and harache in Serbia. It's not like stockings are masked, they're kidnapped for great expertise. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Tomislav Nikolic has just brought out the information, but the press can't walk around the assembly hall anymore, so the armed bodyguards of Mr. Batic and your other ministers are publicly waving guns...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8830	Mr. Janjic, if you had nothing to say, you'd better not have called. Come on, talk about what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8831	It's not like I'm gonna say what you want me to say. Mr. Chairman, you had to act because the Rules of Procedure were regulated that only congregation security could be armed in the congregation. You've allowed them to put pressure on...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8832	You didn't answer the Rules of Procedure, nor did you report it. Do you want to get to the point or should I give you a warning?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8833	I answer when I think I should answer, not when it suits you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8834	You're talking about some socks, and I have no idea what you're talking about, what's wrong with you?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8835	That's the government, I can't talk about hats when they're wearing socks on your head. Since the formation itself, the majority of the assembly, or voting machine, only serves as...... to this government. The parliamentary majority only votes, that is, obeying the government's orders. I guess the government should follow orders from the National Assembly and answer for its work to the National Assembly. What is particularly annoying is that no minister comes to the National Assembly meetings. Who needs to be accounted for for. Or perhaps the ministers have been known to be top experts. A bad law, which was withdrawn from the procedure because it was bad and inapplicable, now the government is offering us an even worse bill of wages in state authorities and public services. By passing this law, thank you, I see the entire DOS applauding me, passing this bill urgently because of the promise to fire 15% or 60,000 of the state administration's workers. It will turn out that the king of nicotine, Mr. Prime Minister or the king of cocaine, Mr. Chad has a lot of kings here, lies, and there will be no redundancy, so it is urgent that the list be completed as soon as possible. Citizens should know that you are firing everyone who is not in DOS parties throughout Serbia, not making sure that you release pregnant women on maternity leave and people who need another year to retire. The mistake of changing Mr. Obradovic is that he did not bypass the investigation....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8836	It's a sin to warn you, but I really must warn you. I give you a warning, Mr. Janjic. My soul hurts when I have to warn like that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8837	Now, the mafia lobby is under the control of Djindjic, Batic and Mihajlovic and Haraj with Serbia. All of you gentlemen from the DOS government, according to JUL's manners, are well paid to participate in all possible boards of directors, so you are not interested in paying classes at all. You apply a special injustice by this law to workers in smaller municipalities, i.e. in municipalities with less than 60,000 inhabitants. Gentlemen, what is the difference in the description and scope of the work of workers in municipalities with 30 - 50,000 inhabitants and those with 65,000? Not at all.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8838	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8839	The irresponsible majority will vote anything they are ordered to. Citizens remain that whenever they go to the House Council vote, the local community committees and the like know that DOS is the worst. As someone said - the Serbian people should experience catharsis, or admit to themselves that they were wrong. He voted for the worst thing in Serbia, which is DOS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-06-12-0.u8840	I hereby conclude the principled search and put to the vote the draft Law on Salary in State Authorities and Public Services in principle. To vote 113, against 47, no one was abstentioned, 17 was not voted, and 177 MPs were present in total. I find that the National Assembly has accepted the bill in principle. We continue work tomorrow, perhaps with Mr Vujic's objection to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, which I interrupt five minutes earlier, but we continue tomorrow at 10.00 hours, and these five minutes are due to the necessary consultations. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the work of the 7th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 135 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units of the electronic voting system. I find that there is a quorum for the work of the National Assembly I inform you that they are prevented from attending the sittings of the following MPs: Radomir Naumov, Aleksandar Popović, Vlatko Sekulović, Veselin Janković, Vojislav Janković, Milan Milosavljevic, Rodoljub Šabić, Milutinović, Pal Shandor, Karolj Kermeci, Ljubomir Mucic, Anton Bijačin, Branislav Krubački, Zoran Novaković, Marko Jakšić, Vuk Antonjevic, Bosko Ristić. In the morning alone, Dragan Kovacevic, Milena Andrić, Srdjan Sikimić, Petar Misic, Jon Čizmas, Istvan Išpanovic, Neda Arnerić, Anita Beretic (afterno), Cedomir Jovanovic (late). I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-President, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Also, I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to attend Nenad Canak, the president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly and Dr Predrag Filipov, vice-president of the AP Vojvodina Assembly as the authorised representatives of the AP Vojvodina Assembly, who submitted amendments to the draft laws on the agenda of this session. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable it to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Marin Kresic, elected from the election list DOS-Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the election of Members of the People's Parliament, I find confirmation of the mandate of MP Marin Kresic. Congratulations to the People's MP on the election. We move to the 2nd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a PAYMENT LAW IN THE STATE AUTHORITIES AND PUBLIC SERVICES(S) I remind you that at yesterday's session we adopted the draft law in principle. I'm opening a review of the bill in particular. National MP Borislav Pelevic submitted the amendment to item 1 of the 5th. I ask the Government's representative to plead on this amendment. (no representative of the Government) The Administrative Committee has adopted this amendment. Does the applicant of the amendment want a word? The word is made by MP Borislav Pelevic.
