ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7777	Mr. President, I'd like to report a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and then I'd like to give one replica to which I have the right. I ask you to stop that damn clock for once, so that in this assembly we can talk as equal and as human, so that we, MPs of the Serbian Radical Party, stop feeling like MPs of another order. We were brought into a situation Thursday to interrupt our session at a time when we had the right to reply to a vandal statement by the minister of justice and local self-government that was not sanctioned by you, and it caused great damage to the reputation of not only the Government of the Republic of Serbia but - I must say - and the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. It is possible that I then broke the Rules of Procedure because I came to a pay phone without your permission, Mr. President, I may have used a word that is not like me and my education, but I was really challenged, Mr. President, by your and only your conduct. I think your behavior also led to an incident that happened on the steps of the National Assembly building, when a DHSS MP tried to provoke a conflict with me, after an agreement with Minister Batic, who sat with him in a bench for half an hour and tried to lead to whether I was either expelled from this session or that I might be removed from my parliamentary immunity, in order to discuss my responsibility as well. I heard on my way out of the O.R. that someone was attacking MP Mircic. I apologize to the MPs I've crossed on the stairs. Maybe they thought I was doing something I shouldn't have done back then. But I saw there was a crowd at the top of the stairs. In front of me, MP DHSS Iron Jovanovic stood in front of me, I try right, he stands in front of me and says, "What are you pushing?" I try left, and he says, "What are you pushing?" There was a lady who could testify, but she doesn't have to, it doesn't matter. When security got involved between us, he told me a very vulgar word which is why you, Mr. President, usually exclude yourself from the session, and in order to know what kind of man it is, I will read to you only part of the interview of the Director of the Weapons Factory of the Weapons Factory in the flag, accidentally given on Thursday, and it refers to that MP....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7778	Please, Mr. Nikolich...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7779	Don't ask me anything, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7780	Then I will be forced to warn you. You applied for a breach of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7781	I have signed up to prove to you that the Rules of Procedure has been injured and the conduct of certain MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7782	But it has nothing to do with statements, newspapers and dedicated production.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7783	That's the man who's been threatening the director of the Kragujevac Arms Factory on the phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7784	It has nothing to do with what we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7785	There are savages here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7786	I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7787	Well, thank you very much. You're proving everything I pointed to. Don't make it look like you don't know who did it. I'm telling you, if you attack us with your hands, defend us with your hands, if you attack with your guns, we'll defend ourselves with our guns. Nobody's gonna beat us here or kill us. I guarantee you that. Now I have the right to that replica you've admitted...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7788	Do you have a right or do you not, you know that, according to the Rules of Procedure, you have made a complaint. We need to decide first, and then we'll decide on the right to the replica. Although, I didn't understand what you objected to, the right to tell you. You wanted a replica. I gave you the right to a replica, but the MPs came out. In that case, I am, according to the Rules of Procedure, obliged to interrupt the session. That was after 7:30, when we don't usually work. When you report for the replica, we'll decide. It is absolutely amazing that you are attributing responsibility to me for the incident that happened between you and Mr. Iron Jovanovic and, in doing so, you are still supporting this responsibility with statements and newspaper articles related to Iron Jovanovic. Either I don't understand you well enough, or you're not expressing yourself precisely enough. In that part, I believe that, as chairman, I have no responsibility whatsoever. As far as the incident is concerned, we'll look into the security logs, see what it's all about. As far as the clock goes, we didn't set it up. We're just using it in the Rules of Procedure. As far as I know, the clock was set at the time of your authority. I don't know what else you objected to. Should we unmount the clock, what?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7789	What kind of government do we have? What time of our government? And we inherited it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7790	And you inherited it. Okay. Then from the time of the communist government. The clock uses to see what time it is. I don't see what the point of the objection is that the president is using the clock. It's from the JIV century. It was sand, so I don't know what it was. Only to put it to the vote, but I don't know which member. He has the word Tomislav Nikolic - replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7791	Looks like you've been to consultations, Mr. President. That night they admit you were wrong, and today you don't admit it. Okay, what do we do? On Thursday, you attended a speech by Minister Batic, who was named by the regime's press as an inappropriate step. I guess that's the sharpest word he can use to use the press when he wants to criticize someone from the top of power. As far as we're concerned, we use a lot of rough words. I couldn't really believe that a minister from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, a pro-European government, who no longer cares who to whom the people, whose religion they belong, would perform here as a clerofashist, and that everything they don't like about Vojislav Seselj would collect in that Vojislav Seselj is not a Serb. Fortunately, on Tuesday, I heard Mr. Batic boasting at Mr. Jovanovic that he had found a newspaper in which he found Seselje Hrvata. That was May 22nd. I asked my friend Bozidar Vukurovic, who hacks the Internet, to give me May 22nd... A man doesn't pay for the Internet, he goes in wherever he wants. [[Laughter in O.R.]] It's called hacking, if you didn't know. Then Bozidar Vučurović entered the phone book of several cities of former SFRY - Zagreb, Rijeka, Bugojno, Sarajevo, Mostar, so we found relatives of Mr Batić: Batić Ante, Sljemenska 34, Zaprešić; Batić Arif, Brionska 7c, Zagreb; Batić Klaudija, Zagreb; Batić Eli, Zagreb; Batić Esad, Zagreb. So you don't laugh too much, there's also Covica Josipa and Covic Joze and Cović Jure and Covic Mija and Cović Mujo. Of course, there is Djindjic, there, of course, has all the last names. There's a Nikolic there, but I won't talk to you. You use it, and you continue to use it as evidence that Serbian radicals are no good and that the basis for the persecution of Serbian radicals is that some lunatic here at the Assembly said Vojislav Seselj is a Croat. (President: Mr. Nikolic, I give you a second warning. ) Of course, the birth certificate of Vojislav Seselj was to be read, signed by the High Priest Atanasija Jeftic, at a time when the conflict between the Reverend Atanasija Jeftic and Vojislav Seselj was great, but at the birth certificate and on the letter addressed to Vuk Draskovic was written, according to my knowledge, here, from Zahumska eparchy, Vojislav Seselj is a Serb. As for Iraq, my dear gentlemen... (President: Mr. Nikolic, it's been three minutes and 39 seconds. You have three minutes for replication. ) Vojislav Seselj was visiting Iraq on February 12th and literally Vice President of the Republic of Iraq Taha Jasi Ramadan said: "Our two peoples have traditionally had good relations. These relations were political, interstate, but also economic. Since economic co-operation, through mutual benefit, many Yugoslav firms have lived. However, these friendly relationships have been disrupted in the '80s and early 90s, and most of it has been done by our side because we have been affected by the syndrome that has occurred in Europe. We couldn't wait to get rid of communism, and we idealized Western values, and we underestimated the policy of non-classification. I'd like to take advantage of my third performance. (President: You continue with the performance. When we rejected communism, we rejected everything, and our people said: “You must not throw your child out of the trough with dirty water. ” A rather slow awareness of our relationship in our society appears, but I must, Excellency, proudly tell you that our party is a Serbian Radical Party, the first to see the truth. The first and publicly admitted delusions about our foreign policy orientation, our delusions about the heroic struggle of the Iraqi people. "What Mr Batic read to us, this was done by his present-day MP, Aleksandar Stefanovic. He prepared for the replica, of course he was ready, past the knowledge of the Serbian Radical Party and was therefore sharply rebuked by the Serbian Radical Party. Here he is now in a party where he can do whatever he wants. That's the MP you kicked out of the usurped apartment, Mr. President. Meanwhile, I have evidence that the president of the DHSS Municipal Committee, Majdanpek, is indeed the director of RBM and is truly responsible for everything that is happening in Majdanpek. He's also DHSS's boardman in Majdanpek, so I'm surprised the president of his party doesn't know it's his boardman in Majdanpek. Of course, in the meantime, he placed all his party colleagues in the position of director of the dig, head of security. Even one who was expelled during the previous government for crime. Meanwhile, a member of the DHSS has become the director of the Ministry of Publishing the textbooks of the Republic of Serbia, so we will see how much our textbooks will cost and how many will be for the people. (President: No tossing.) Mr. Nikolic uses, after a replica, another third report, as a proposer. ) At a time when the patriarch of Serbia, Mr. Paul, serves in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija, with priests of other religions, at a time when the archbishop of Greece serves with the Roman Pope, when they even violate the canons of the Holy Orthodox Church, which explicitly prohibits any prayerful generality with the heretics and inoslavians. Me or us - Serbian Radicals, indirectly, via our President Vojislav Seselj, the minister of justice of the Government of the Republic of Serbia accuses us of being, to God, the President of Croatia. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, if it wasn't unfortunate, it would all be very funny. All over Serbia, these days, talk about the performances of Minister Batic in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and how none of you defend him with either the heart or the arguments. You don't defend him with your heart because you don't have the heart to defend such a man, and you don't defend him with arguments because there's no argument for his defense. It's simple, as our people would say, there was a fairy where it wasn't. Our minister of justice never dreamed of one day being a minister of justice. It hit him. But it happened to you, ladies and gentlemen of the people, by guarding his character and his shameful act, you're actually drawing on yourself, I can't just say the odym, I must say the contempt of the Serbian people. You participate and participate in everything he does throughout Serbia. After all, the mood of public opinion, the results of certain controversial local elections, I guess they tell you clearly enough what they do to you by individuals from the Government of the Republic of Serbia who didn't deserve to be there. Vladan Batic stood up against the position of the government of the Republic of Serbia that the state of Serbia is the majority owner of Galenika. Here on Thursday, he told us that Bojic and Seselj kidnapped Galenika from Milan Panic. You're not responding. None of you should tell him -- sorry, Minister, you should be a minister a hundred times, but Milan Panic did not pay off his obligation to sign the contract, that so much money will be put into Galenika, and money and four drugs -- AIDS medicine, cancer medicine, leukemia medicine. If we had such a drug factory, we wouldn't have to have any more factories in SRJ or in Serbia at all. Now from the assembly speaker, representing the government of the Republic of Serbia, Vladan Batic, the minister of justice, says Milan Panic is right. You all shut up, wait till you raise your hand to keep him, to be minister of justice and to continue in court with the courts, and look at all the court-laws the Court of Commerce is doing, they even want to liquidate the Post Office. The minister of justice does not deal with it, he carries a hekler, he runs around Serbia, he goes through Serbia, he collects the gang, his MPs provokes the MPs in the Serbian Parliament to challenge the fight, to challenge the interruption of work because the minister does not respond to the atmosphere created in the public of Serbia. Ladies and gentlemen of the House of People, you have a great responsibility, it is your responsibility to support a man who doesn't deserve it. It is your responsibility to support the idea, which, I hope, you do not carry within yourself, the idea that Serbia can walk, that it can breathe, that only one who is in DOS can live, and not in any party of DOS, but only in DHSS, or in parties that accept that such a man can represent the Republic of Serbia. I asked on Thursday, Mr. President, for a replica of the presentation of one DOS MP, you didn't give it to me, and he said the whole theme of my proposal was that Vladan Batic couldn't be a minister because he has a big nose. That was the first time I found out that this man had a big nose, and until then I hadn't noticed it, and I wasn't interested in it. I've presented arguments on 32 thickly typed pages, which is why he can't be a minister, and here you honor that I don't like his nose. He's who he is. It's as if one of us can influence how he'll be born. It's like it depends on how you behave in your mother's womb. That's not what I meant. I wasn't interested in it. I am interested in how many Serbian citizens are terrified of Vladan Batic, how many mothers are terrified of his children, how many women are terrified of her husbands, whether the inquisitors in their leather coats will ring again at night because a new Krcun appeared, some new exterminator of Serbian souls, Vladan Batic and his gang. I am thinking about how many Serbian citizens who have participated in all our wars, in the last ten years, have suffered from Vladan Batic. Will the head of the Arms Factory that doesn't give Miodrag Savivić that he is exporting weapons, but is asking for it to continue to do so, the flag to go to The Hague because he produced the weapon with which we fought. That is the point of our request, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vladan Batic does not deserve to be a minister in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If it were the DOS government -- you deserve it, you deserve it, but this is Serbia, this is the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and such a minister has never had. You know that very well. You know, you have some party responsibility, and if you were asked by a man to whom party you have a responsibility, whether it's your own, and if you told your own, then a man would tell you, well, don't vote for Batic. A man who couldn't get into the DSS, who couldn't get into the DSS, doesn't deserve to be supported by those parties in what he's doing. If it were right, you'd stay in those parties, if it were good, you wouldn't go to the president's shift, first one, then the other party. For good, we would not speak here in the Serbian Parliament that we should tear down mosques because churches in Kosovo and Metohija have been torn down. I said that on Thursday, there's no answer and it's written in our stenographic notes. If it were right, no one here in the Assembly would have mentioned it if it weren't for the Serb. He said that, if he said it, we'd all be in jail. Now, that's why ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, why we tried Thursday, and here today, if we finish this session, to convince you that you should vote for Vladan Batic to be resolved and to stop this manner of bringing together five-six false politicians, quasi politicians, criminals, bandits, financiers and to lead this country. They have nowhere to take you. That MP who attacked me on the stairs, I stopped him from kidnapping three years ago. (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... The Peco store in Kragujevac and it has a floor wall on it. I was in power to stop criminals, and now I'm not. Now you're in power, now you're in the majority and think about it. Whoever hangs out with criminals and solidifies can't be anything but the same as them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7792	The word has a people's... What, what? On the occasion... By name? (Alexander Stefanovic: the name and name he mentioned to me. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7793	Gentlemen, I'm going to say a few things that you, with a longer memory, probably remember. In 1994, police kicked SRS MPs off these benches where the MP group is now sitting. All the others left the Assembly and only MP, then the DSS, Vladan Batic remained to fight with the SRS MPs to defend them and to tear his jacket out of the wrestling here. After that, Tomislav Nikolic came to the DSS parliamentary group to thank Vladna Batic for this gesture, and today, as you can see, throws trees and stones at this man who, six or seven years ago, stepped in defense of this same parliamentary group. However, as far as this text is concerned, "Brothers of America," tell me, did anyone attend this gathering of you sitting in the messenger benches today? I don't think anyone was there. You couldn't discuss it, you couldn't criticize me for it, and then politics was just America's brothers. I wish that the same policy remained in a later period. If Vojislav Seselj had wanted, he could have denied in the next number of "Great Serbia" that sign, he could have issued a special edition. No, that policy was right then - "Friends of America." As for Saddam Hussein and his BAS party, which later, I know well, came through Vladimir Žirinovski, who yesterday according to the writing of "The Voice of the Public", and according to the Federal Security Service of Russia, got from Aslan Dudajev 500,000 dollars to turn the Russian dollar on his head to help the Chechen separatists achieve their goals. I'm afraid in this case, someone is not turning the Serbian parliament around for a number, and unfortunately, no service has yet determined which number it is or who it is that gives that money. As for the apartment, all the other slanders that have so far been spoken against me from this pay phone, I, gentlemen of the radicals, can tell you that I am the patriarch of Paul. You found me to object to an apartment that I received legally in the Federal Assembly, because for two years I was first on the ranking list. You're mixing Mr. Martian with the whole case, and you're asking him to confirm that's exactly what happened. It was true because Mr. Marsican had a corrupt administration in the municipality, which, by order of the State Security and the late Badže Stojic, and Vojislav Seselj, replaced the documents in the Administrative Commission of the Federal Assembly and I was really thrown out of justice by God from that apartment. (President: Time. ) Okay, I'll talk about it another time, but I'll also talk about where the entire attack, both on DHSS, and on Vladan Batic, and on me, as members of that party.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7794	Now I finally have to pick up the line. Very short and very clear: it was not that Dragan Marsican had corrupt officials in the municipality, but it was simply that Mr Stefanovic had no solution to the assignment of the apartment. All the events related to the assignment took place during the period when radicals were in love with Milosevic, so they received apartments. After that, meanwhile, entering an apartment without a solution, the coalition broke out, love was interrupted, it was cancelled, it was not on the housing commission, and simply, at the request of the federal authorities, the Vracar municipality only carried out the move-out procedure for Mr Stefanovic from the apartment he immigrated to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7796	Mr. Stefanovic, you have no right, you have caused a replica. You caused the replica, there's no replica on the replica. The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7797	It wasn't in a negative context. Getting an apartment isn't a negative context. I can't give you my word. Not a party put in a negative context. You were in power for a while with Milosevic, after which you were not, and that is nothing wrong. I'm just stating the facts about Mr. Stefanovic. Mr. Stefanovic's got an apartment. Don't open a discussion about it, I've been looking at the records of the Administrative Commission. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7798	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I believe I will not spend my 10 minutes, so you will allow me only a few sentences at the beginning to dedicate something that is not a direct topic of this agenda point. In fact, to be honest, extremely dissatisfied, not to say unhappy, I left the building of this assembly on Thursday, so at the end of our last session. I don't know if the public could see it completely, but it's quite realistic that at the time we were just a fraction of a scandal, which I don't suppose was remembered in the history of parliamentaryism. There was a real chance, ladies and gentlemen, that a few dozen MPs might come up with a physical reckoning. I really don't want to talk about who's to blame. At the very least, if this had happened directly or indirectly, we would all have been responsible for it. What I want is for all of us to be present, no matter what group they belong to, I ask that we make a great effort to avoid using anything that contributes to creating such an atmosphere. Now I'm going back to what is the point of the agenda. Given what I said earlier, if anyone in what I say today finds anything offensive, I apologize in advance. So, on the agenda is a procedure to vote non-confidential to a government minister, in particular the Justice Minister, Mr Vladan Batic. There is nothing on the agenda that is in the sphere of emotion, which is in the sphere of personal or group-valued courts, is not on the agenda or personality of Vladan Batic, or anyone whose idea of what the proposals are like. So we are taking part in a procedure launched on the basis of a proposal of twenty-four MPs of a parliamentary group, therefore fully legitimately initiated on the basis of the Constitution, and in a procedure re-organised by our Rules of Procedure, Chapter 14 of Section 4. It assumes a certain kind of debate. This participation in the process assumes discussion of facts, arguments and evidence. I will try really, trying to be as objective as possible, to talk about a few things that Minister Batić has put on the line. If I remember correctly, most of the space in the motion to vote his mistrust is taking up the part that burdens Batic with his intensity, desire or will to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Gentlemen, any of us may have any idea or evaluation of the value of the UN tribunal, but there is something I believe we are, in the extreme, undivided. I don't believe there's anyone who wants this country to be an equal member of the international community and I don't believe there's anyone who doesn't want this country to be a member, a full member of the United Nations. Such a definition necessarily implies certain conconsequences. It cannot be a member of the United Nations unless the acts of that organisation are respected. There is no need to absorb into a series of documents of the organisation, especially the Security Council, which is the main authority of the organisation, in the ultimate line in the famous Resolution 1244, apostropherasing with The Hague tribunal. It cannot also be an equal member of the international community without respecting the principles that apply in international relations. The principles of implementation in the well-being of international commitments and not to list any further. So, an international document signed by Slobodan Milosevic, not Vladan Batic or anyone else, envisions the obligation to co-operate with The Hague tribunal. Therefore, someone who simply does something he has to do, because I was talking about principles that apply throughout the international community, can't be responsible for it, can't swim in a river and stay dry. In this same context, therefore, in the context of responsibilities related to co-operation with The Hague tribunal, Vladan Batic, for example, is being made aware of the Constitution, so it is said that the Constitution of Yugoslavia excludes the possibility of taking away citizenship, that is, taking away citizenship from the citizen of Yugoslavia, being expelled and being extradited. Such a provision, literally such as or at least literally, exists in the Serbian Constitution. However, there is something different in the Constitution of Yugoslavia that ends with another addition -- no foreign citizen can be extradited. Since, I stress, I want to be objective, at least that sentence allows for a different interpretation and at the very least that sentence opens up a dilemma as to why the founder emphasized - a foreign citizen. Why didn't the sentence end as did the Serbian constitutionalist, if the situation were quite clear. In this case, I say, at the very least, there is an open dilemma and there is an open possibility for a different legal interpretation and a different legal position, so that the ban applies to the extradition of the court of a foreign state, but not to the court of an international organisation. So, if we don't open up a debate now who's right, I don't think anyone can be held accountable because of a different legal opinion or interpretation of the constitutional norm, especially when the norm allows it, by my deep conviction, to do so. Vladan Batic is in the same context responsible for telling the president of the federal government, Mr Zoran Zizic, that he is not in charge of deciding who will be extradited and who will not be extradited to The Hague tribunal. Does anyone, gentlemen, think Vladan Batic is wrong? By which standard of any legal act governing the sphere of international legal aid or any progress that has to do with it, the President of the Federal Government has any jurisdiction when dealing with the issue of handing over anyone to any court. Someone can't be responsible for handing out the truth. But what I was talking about in the sphere is some sort of legal theory. There are far more serious charges, charges I'm sure would absolutely disqualify the minister of justice if they were proven. I'm saying I'm taking part in the procedure to treat the Marguments that have been given in the motion to vote for mistrust. So I am deeply convinced that every citizen of this country in a situation where he is threatened with any right or legal interest has the right to disrespect a correct court procedure. So, the accusation that Vladan Batic, along with another minister, formed some kind of special bigger to resolve in the process of Dr Vojislav Seselj, would be very serious, because it would be serious in relation to any citizen, especially anyone who is known to be his political opponent. That's what I'm very objectively saying, as a lawyer, and I believe my colleagues know, it's not much bigger. The council has condemned dozens of cases, and I in my office have judgments that were tried by Judges Savitic and Đuricic, and especially by that argument, and I am quite honest with you, compromises the allegations concerning the president of the council. I don't think it's directed to a judge, and especially to call the president such expressions. However, even if it were, Mr. Nikolic, I don't defile with you, it's in the proposal and read it carefully. Imagine that this president is that. At the very end of the line, the government of which Vladan Batić belonged the other day (I reserve the right to think of him personally whatever I want) resolved, and this man whom anyone can influence was the Supreme Court judge for years, and at a time when, without offense, the promoters were able to initiate proceedings for his removal from that function. And finally, there is another, probably the most terrible accusation, an accusation that, if proven, would not only lead to the compromise of the justice minister, but certainly would be sufficient reason to bring down the DOS government. It is an accusation that Vladan Batic, along with some others, has been identified by names and nicknames, formed a gang, literally a gang, a criminal organization whose aim was to deal with the hunting of human heads and to hand them over for money to foreign organisations or states that have issued blackmails for their heads. It's really an accusation that if it was proven, it would have to bring down any government in the world, so it would have shot down DOS. But, gentlemen, the arguments and evidence of that accusation are one sentence that reads - all of this is known to us by one of our party members, whom Mr. Vladan Batic tried to recruit. Gentlemen, no offense, I'm stressing again, I really had no intention of insulting anyone at all. That sentence and that argument have the effect that this serious accusation ceases to be an accusation, it remains the most ordinary insinuation. Of course, the congregation can't do that. In the name of that, and in the name of what I was talking about, I think the National Assembly, based on this proposal, can in no way vote for mistrust from the Minister of Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7799	There's a word Mr. Alexander Wolf, second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7800	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I have to say that really amazing things happened on Thursday. I hope that we will no longer experience any kind of public mockery or attempts to humiliate and misrepresent SRS MPs, by the President of the National Assembly, and you do not have to do it with a smile and a cynical comment, as you do every time. It was enough to listen to Justice Minister Vladan Batic, what he said, to make it clear what they are and how different your arches are and how you can have double standards. Namely, what he was saying did not deserve to be kicked out of the O.R. but deserved never to enter the congregation hall again. You didn't react to that at all. I will now, since you spoke earlier, and you have not given us the opportunity to reply, and it is about the Minister of Justice himself, say something, Mr. Martian - don't be you who will determine who is with whom when he was in love and when he isn't. I've been in love with a few ladies in my day, and now with my wife, and never with anyone else, and don't make that up. If you're talking about another kind of love, I love my child, I love my family, my country and people, and love and who was in love -- you were in love, you witnessed an MP who just spoke from DHSS, who told you in time for you, Mr. Martian, I will now read it to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7801	Well, today is not my resignation on the agenda, it's Mr. Batic's. You make a request for me, and we'll apologize sweetly, but now we're going to the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7802	I don't talk to you at all and don't interrupt me and take away my precious time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7803	It is my duty, as chairman, to warn you when you do not talk about what is on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7804	I'm talking about what's on the agenda -- this man who supported Vladan Batic and spoke about it, said Kostunica and Marsican had a mob space, issuing bars or party members or companies that sponsored Kostunica's campaign or those who were willing to pay for a racket in the DSS cash register. He goes on to say... the Martian is being investigated, but later the file simply disappeared. By the way, you are said to have received a huge dollar amount to get out of the apartment, and otherwise you are the godfather of Nada Popovic-Perisic. That's what MP DHSS says, not an SRS MP. In addition, DHSS MP says Kostunica is a cat-obsessed man, has a cat statue on his desk, lives alone in a 200-square apartment, with nine black cats, and that's exactly nine. That's what MP DHSS says. And about what it was and what the president of the SRS was talking about, he also showed that whenever there was a mistake, and when there was a scandal like that that was made about supporting the Americans, to stand behind his man, and to take the punches on his shoulders and to endure even the worst possible insults, and even political mistakes to take on his back. That's, I'd say, the quality of moral and normal people. As for what you've been talking about and what's been said in the last few days, I just need to tell you about this story -- my father, from Bugojna, was actually born in Serbia. He only survived because he was in his stomach, the Ustashas killed the whole family that lived there. She was the most famous Serbian family in the place. As you can see, Tomislav Nikolic has brought, as far as Serbs and non-Serbs are concerned, names from that very place, in Ždrlovici, Poric, Gracani, Gaje, where the Croats are mostly, you have all the Muslims Batic. There's no wolf. We've heard there are Croats somewhere from Arjan towards Split, but they're not here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7805	Mr. Wolf, I warn you, it's been four minutes that you haven't started talking about what you've come to know. I give you a warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7806	Your cynicism and your hypocrisy really have no limits. You gave me a warning because I was talking about Vladan Batic and what he was saying. That's why this man can't be a minister - what he was talking about, and you gave me a warning. Don't tell me again. Have a drink. Well, I don't drink anything, Mr. Martian, I once drank in 1991 and never again in my life. I don't spend any alcohol, so you can tell me, have a drink. As far as I'm concerned, I'm one of the calmest, very careful listeners that no one can listen to, and especially not with care. As for Minister Batic himself, there were many words about local self-government, which was said to have been no injuries, no interference, etc. It's said -- it's mostly where irregularities and illegal actions are done. I have to point out one fact, that's not true. Namely, it was the Ub Municipality, where there were major irregularities, but no temporary measures were imposed. Why - because 13 or 11, it doesn't matter in the end line, the municipal council members left the SPO, elected on the SPS list (if so, Ivkovic) and then crossed over, signed for DHSS. There's no additional election, that's how the municipal government is created. It's the opposite of the law, it's the opposite of the provisions of all laws, but it's possible and it can happen in such a way, it's something that really represents something that is completely amazing, something that we can't agree on. Or, the municipality of Dimitrovgrad, why are no temporary measures imposed there, is that right, Mr. Panayotovic, that they decide there without a majority? You're one of the few people I can tell you, I can believe when they come out and say whether it's true or not. Say, "Come out, and say, with a number of people smaller than what is necessary, both in the Executive Council and in the Assembly of the municipalities, they make full and just decisions. Is it true? That's right. Why aren't there temporary measures? They're not temporary measures because DOS controls, even if it's against the law. I don't care about the DOS people, which is what it is, and where it doesn't run the DOS, temporary measures are being imposed, because of the principles of political arbitration. That's the point. That's what we can't agree on. I am now going to talk about something very important, what was happening in our country, and it is a common sphere, known as the Mercedes-Benc affair, and it is related to municipal public prosecutor Biljana Radovanovic, who was in charge of the Fourth Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade to undertake criminal prosecution on the criminal charges of HTR 38/2000, which was filed on January 1st 2000. The injured has filed criminal charges against the responsible persons "Mercedes-Benca" - AG Zutgart, Ineks-Belgrade, the Federal Customs Administration, the Serbian MUP, the judiciary and the prosecution. Biljana Radovanovic has not filed a criminal report for months. After numerous interventions damaged, Biljana Radovanovic formally took on a criminal report, it is meant not to do anything. For a year and a half, a criminal complaint has been filed against the mosque in some drawer of Biljana Radovanovic. You may think that this would look like today, where people are arrested, and then it becomes known that there is an application, given that the criminal complaint is in a causal relationship with the 165420/2001 case in Belgrade, while the number of perpetrators of new crimes is increasing. What's this about? To explain that, I'll read you just a few sentences. The strange lawsuit against the damaged is based on a large counterfeit where Mercedes-Benc Belgrade allegedly paid customs and taxes for imported vehicles. It was examined and found that customs duties were not paid, and if paid in the name of customs duties, then imports were declared with the code as drugs and at significantly lower customs rates. You can see the number of faces in our proposal that you will receive in the Assembly, which was directly involved. So, "mercedes" were bought, customs dutyed as drugs, 15 expensive jeeps were missing, and for this unwitting performance of the public prosecutor's office was found by an accomplice to the fourth municipal court's investigation in Belgrade, Dusan Simic. He returned the case to the prosecutor's office with an imaginary warrant, and with all of it, apart from previous prosecutors Dragisa Krsmanovic and Andrija Milutinovic, Vladan Batic and Zoran Djindjic and Dragor Hiber and many others, but absolutely nothing is being done. It's something that represents direct responsibility and direct jurisdiction of the justice minister. That's something to talk about. So, the SRS parliamentary group, and above all for what we talked about, which is the arrest of Serbs and sending them to The Hague, all those who are illegally arrested and are in Serbian courts, we hope, will survive for three months and a year, and perhaps more. Those who were sent...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7807	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7808	It's interesting...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7809	What's weird is, I said time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7810	It's interesting how zealous you are, in 10 minutes and one second you notice it, even though you've interrupted me three times for no reason.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7811	Mr. Mircic warned me that I was a few seconds late and I accepted that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7812	Your jokes are pretty stupid and stupid, but I won't comment on them anymore and I won't give you a chance to react in that way in the future. I'm just telling you to consider one fact, put yourself in the position of a family. Don't be at some point or at this point what you are. Put yourself in the position of the Milomir Stakic family, put yourself in the position of his children, put yourself in the position of his wife, put yourself in their position and think about what you would do, to live and to keep your family alive. Think of a family that was destroyed by this, because the question is whether or not they will return from The Hague at all Milomir Stakic. His life and the life of his family destroyed Vladan Batic, destroyed the DOS government, think about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7813	The MP and president of the assembly, Mr Dragan Marsicanin, right to the replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7814	As for the text you read, it's not DHSS MP, it's SRS secretary. It's the pamphlet you shared, and I don't know that DHSS has "Great Serbia". Yeah, at a time when that pamphlet was published, shared on the streets, from the modest budget revenues of the SRS funded, it was a senior SRS official, he was offended, so that's what the party really is. At a time when it's written, so that's it. As for the text itself, you should know what a godfather is, what a godfather is, what a godfather is. Anyone who doesn't know that should look, learn, doggy is someone who's baptized, so there's this relationship, and as far as my godmothers are concerned, I'm proud of them, not entering their political commitment and their political action. Godfather, of course I'm not. As for the domestic animals that you are once again obsessed with after a while, that only speaks of the level of political opponents, with which you only have to fight. [[Applause]] The People's Messenger Marijan Rističević has the word, and then the National MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7816	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, you will allow me to make a brief introduction. Last working day, I suggested that because of the patriotic concern of a parliamentary group we discuss Kosovo, we should finish it. It's interesting that this patriotic group turned that down. On that occasion, a lie was told that we were not concerned about Resolution 1244. It was thought of the former assembly of the National Assembly and a group of three MPs of the Vojvodina Coalition. I am obliged to remind myself that at that famous war session we were abstentioned and that we said that Vojvodina would not sign the capitulation for Kosovo, that it was not an agreement, but a capitulation. Just to remind those who were in the last meeting. There's a stenogram and it's to be determined. I would immediately suggest, in order to work more efficiently, that MPs who challenged the minister of justice be properly excused and withdraw the proposal. The main charges brought as guilty by the minister are, about, a lack of national consciousness. They were presented by a former longtime law student at the University of Kragujeva, who did not even pass national history with a professor who is a member of his party. Two basic reasons are listed from opposition circles, besides these, why Mr Vladan Batic, the justice minister and local self-government should resign or be relieved of duties. One is a forced administration, and the other is The Hague, as I understand it. As far as emergency administrations are concerned, I will remind you -- in the last meeting, the forced administration in the case of the municipalities of Titel and Indjia lasted three years. Here is the example of Titus, as the congregation was built there on time. Just because President So was elected, doesn't mean the municipality was established, it just means she got the president, the secretary and something else she didn't get. Speaking of forced administrations, I'm obliged to say that these forced administrations are being introduced under the Law on Local Self-Government, which was brought in in the former council. I have proposed to this Law on Local Self-Government 50 amendments, which have just referred to the elections, that elections are conducted according to a proportionate principle and secondly, that forced administrations cannot be introduced so easily. The former government, and the current opposition, all 50 amendments refused, refusing to accept them and eventually turned out to be in favour of their damage. The law on local self-government that they made, they did so, thinking that they would be central government and that this law would apply to us, not to them. Now, when the sword that forged itself cuts them, then it is not fair to them, but I understand them. It's their own fault, because that's the law they've passed. Two facts are important around The Hague. The first is that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia does not decide to deliver Mr Milosevic, whom I hate to mention. All I had to say to him was, I said before he fell from power, and I'm not one of those who's drawn a tail measure. I am obliged to say that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will not decide on this, so it is stupid to have some discussion about it. The other thing about The Hague court is what it was the other day, it seems to me, Mr. Iron Jovanovic said, and that is: who will take care of you. He earned a warning, and I think the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia owes an apology to Mr. MP Iron Jovanovic, because it turns out he was right. We must admit that we are here trying to protect, as far as the Hague Court is concerned, Mr Milosevic from himself. So Mr. Iron Jovanovic was right. Why do we have to protect Mr Milosevic from himself? For the simple reason that this same Mr Milosevic signed the Dayton Agreement and, in connection with this, co-operation with The Hague tribunal. This concerned Mr Krajisnik, Mrs Plassic, which refers to Mr Ratko Mladic, Karadzic. So the gentleman who signed the Dayton Agreement (or another) has to learn what he's signing, and the other one has to learn to answer for what he signed. Now we have come in a difficult position to answer for something he signed, that is, to try to prevent the delivery of the UN tribunal to a man who signed co-operation with the same tribunal. In my opinion, the minister of justice and local self-government is guilty of two things. He is guilty, or responsible because the judiciary has not applied the laws, even though they may be bad laws. It didn't apply the laws passed by the former government. I'm talking about the Political Party Act. This is Article 12. A law published in the Official Journal in 1990, saying political organisations are deleted from the register, or banned if they spread religious, racial and national hatred or spread impatience. There are at least two political organizations here, which are both custom and rule, and which should, under the same law that have polluted the maltenes, be banned. If Mr Batic is guilty of something, as minister of justice and local self-government, he is guilty of not literally applying the laws and laws they have passed, and they should have been subject to those laws. The second thing he's guilty of, that's what I'm going to end up with, he made a statement in "The Evening News" that the Central Prison will soon be working as a dragster. It's not his fault, in my opinion, that he made that statement, it's his fault that the Central Prison will never work as a dragster.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7817	There's a word, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7818	At the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, while Professor Marko Pavlovic, who was once a member of the Serbian Radical Party and its MP in this assembly, did not take over the department, there was no subject of National History. He introduced that object. But who are you telling? At the time I studied at the Faculty of Law in Kragujevac, national history didn't exist as an object, so I couldn't lay it down. As for Resolution 1244, concerning Kosovo and Metohija, it is true that one group of three MPs was abstained, which means uninterested. They were not interested in Kosovo and Metohija as an entity, as fate. They said the Duchess wouldn't get involved in it. They didn't say "our political party", they didn't say "we don't care, it's Milosevic's fault", but they said "Vojvodina won't get involved in it". Their policy is the secession of the Vojvodina from Serbia. No connection with Kosovo and Metohija is their policy. Think about it, you who are in DOS with those, and who have brought them to power. As far as The Hague is concerned, the Hague court is not independent. He's not independent at all. That's what Vojislav Kostunica told us. Vladan Batic said on Thursday: "It is crazy to say that The Hague tribunal does not rest on the principle of justice" and thus undermines what Vojislav Kostunica told us about The Hague tribunal. Vojislav Kostunica believes the UN tribunal does not rest on the principles of justice. After all, Vojislav Kostunica, as a kind of lawyer, knows very well that the UN tribunal cannot exist as a court, because the UN Security Council's auxiliary body. Find me only one court in the world that is the auxiliary body of another organ. As soon as it's helpful and financed by America, it's not independent of its work. This is not about who established co-operation with The Hague tribunal. Co-operation with the tribunal exists. It is about who will be the first to decide that the citizens of Serbia and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia are being extradited to The Hague. That guilt, that historic shame will fall on DOS, on many people who object against it, who cannot agree with it, on many people sitting here in the hall, on all of you. It is not true that Serbia has nothing to do with it. If there is nothing, why is the minister of justice of the Republic of Serbia talking about it in every interview? Why? If he's not interested in it at all, if it's not his jurisdiction, why is he getting involved in it at all? Of course, the president of the federal government has the right to say, "As long as I'm president, there will be no extradition." It's his personal act. He can stop it while he's the Prime Minister. You're changing it. Then there'll be extradition. But you can't accuse him because he said what he meant as a man. I would recommend that instead of handing the Serbs over to The Hague, hand the power to the citizens. It's much nicer, much more useful and politically more tempting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7819	There is a word from MP Zlatan Jovanovic. Next reported for discussion is MP Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7820	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, a lot has already been said about Mr. Vladan Batic. The Serbian Radical Party MP group has made arguments that are true, which are actually newspaper cuts, or Mr Batic's speech. Therefore, I cannot deny or disprove myself. That's his words, that's all he's been saying since October 5, 2000, but also what he said before October 5th. I don't want to go back to what was said and about Galenika and about the Red Flag and other Sundays of Mr Batic. I'll make one charge here that I have evidence of. I accuse Mr Batic, although he is not present to reaffirm his relationship and the relationship of the complete government of the Republic of Serbia to this assembly, of the destruction and desecration of the building of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia Assembly. We all know that on October 5, 2000, there was a break-in of a group of protesters in the Federal Assembly building and that there was, literally, the destruction of the Federal Assembly building, the destruction of those values that are extremely valuable and valuable to our nation, for our country. I was thinking on that day that DOS as an organizer of demonstrations (by the way - DOS did not gather so many supporters there and protesters, but was gathered by Slobodan Milosevic) was powerless to prevent the protesters from entering the building of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. I've been thinking and in some ways justifying their impotence. But a few days later, on a television show, when the revolutionaries represented themselves and probably made recommendations for future functions, on one of these shows on new television, as the old one was no more, he also hosted today's Justice Minister Vladan Batic. One moment the leader asked: Mr. Batic, how come at the moment when you speak, there is a breach of the protesters in the Federal Assembly? To that question, Mr Batic responded triumphantly, with a smile on his face: Well, you know, I've agreed in advance with a group of Star Fans, "delia", that right at the moment I'm speaking, they're breaking into the Federal Assembly. Immediately after that, the government has determined -- or I don't know which of the official authorities -- one commission that will deal with the damage assessment done to the Federal Assembly. A few days ago, I heard a statement from that commission that the damages in the Federal Assembly were estimated to be 20 million German marks. It may be more, but this is an official position, an official data commission formed by the official government in this country. Therefore, I accuse Mr Batic of being an accomplice, that he is an idea creator of this action and of this damage that has been done to the Federal Assembly, that is, the entire state. The evidence is a statement by Mr Batic himself, given on Serbia's New Television, and if Mr Batic doesn't believe it, there are probably tapes that were saved from the show. I also accuse Mr Batic of his failure to implement decisions by legitimate state authorities. In fact, Mr Batic here a few days ago, that is, on Thursday, when he was probably trying to defend himself against all the arguments that the SRS has brought against him, explained and persuaded us and the public that he was a patriot and that he was filing criminal charges against the leader of NATO aggressor at the time of aggression, probably wanting to prove his patriotism. I ask the question to Mr Batic - why did he not honor and implement the decisions of the legal authorities of this country, who, perhaps based on his criminal application or other charges, have ruled and ruled against all the defendants of the crimes that occurred to this country and to this people. Namely, after such statements that he filed criminal charges, Mr Batic welcomed Belgrade and Solana and other NATO leaders, literally hugging and kissing them, while arresting those who demonstrated against such procedures by our officials, who had torn and burned his paintings and posters. Therefore, it is his political inconsistency, a fraud by Mr Batic, but apparently a complete DOS, made to this people. Mr Batic has been very often in The Hague these days, trying to find an adequate agreement with the international, as they already call him, court in The Hague, so that the state can officially and legitimately exercise the extradition of our citizens to The Hague. Meanwhile, between the two trips to The Hague, Mr Batic tours municipalities and towns across Serbia in an effort to make a political party out of a very suspicious group around him. He is trying to create the committees of his party in Serbia's municipalities and collects and gathers mainly that moral waste from other political options that, for the sake of personal interest, moves into the new Batic's party. That moral waste is probably thinking that on the key to the local level, it can grab some function... (President: Mr. Jovanovic, I give you a reminder. Thank you. ... enters some structures of government and achieves some personal interest. In his efforts, Mr Batic uses all the means possible, from blackmail and persuasion, political and verbal, but when it fails, he also crosses into that area of trade. So in a municipality in Zlatibor County, when he failed to collect enough supporters to build any committee, he tried to trade a little bit, so he offered the chairman of the DSS Municipal Committee in that place 10,000 marks to move into his own party to make his own committee. So, don't run away from that trade within DOS, that is, it's trying to get from its own political parliaments within DOS (which is usually the manner of everyone in DOS, who hastensibly building committees in Serbia's municipalities, at least trying to make them) in this way, something a little bigger in this country. I also accuse Mr Batic of speaking in this House with hate words. He has, on several occasions, performed here, after this pay phone, at the rally, giving speeches he gave a year and more around Serbia, at various gatherings and myths of the opposition at the time. Mr Batic forgets here that the minister of all Serbian citizens should be equally and equally just to all, especially as it is to the minister of justice, who is due tomorrow to help all Serbian citizens if they come into the situation that they need his help. Unfortunately, he doesn't behave like that and it demonstrates exactly from this pay phone. In his speeches here, he often calls on God, representing himself as a believer, a believing man, a godly and respectful of these Serbian values and traditions. I have to go back a few months, somewhere before Christmas, Belgrade was decorated and glued to the great posters of Mr Batic, on which it was written - Christ was born, thank God. (President: Time. ) On these posters was his picture, very, very offensive to the Christian world, for a people whose Christmas is probably the greatest holiday. I think that's how he made fun of Orthodoxism and complete Christianity. I think these arguments that we have made are quite enough to at least think more seriously, I am speaking to the DOS gentlemen, about Mr Batić as Minister of Justice and that you are voting today for mistrust with Mr Batic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7821	The People's Messenger Srboljub Zivanovic has the word, and the next is the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7822	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, I, as a technical person, know that when a failure or a malfunction on the machine occurs during the production process or, as the technical system is said to be, there is a replacement of the work, or part that caused the failure of the system. That's why my exposure today will be dedicated to similar matter and systems that can't work, because there's been a cancellation or failure and a spare part that needs to be replaced is called Vladan Batic. In this part, the process of repairs must also lead to defects, the causes of its failure, so that similar malfunctions do not occur in the production process. Ladies and gentlemen, Vladan Batic has done great damage to the government and citizens of the Republic of Serbia through his behaviour so far and his work has derivated and humiliated the role of justice and local self-government. First, it is a personality of godly manners and a great believer of the church, and in fact a man who does not believe in his people and his country. His performances in various mythins and stands convinced Serbian citizens that they are dealing with a man of questionable moral qualities, suspicious shops and the past. The causes of this part's corruption are: Vladan Batic binds to "Galenik", "Red Flag", and Minister Batic organises many crisis headquarters in the municipalities of Lebana, Lajkovac, Irig, Bosilegrad, Ub, Kladovo and several other municipalities. DOS crisis headquarters have created unrest and a blockade of local self-government. Minister Vladan Batic immediately afterwards performs with his prepared programme for the introduction of a forced administration. Also, with the same methods and same manners, he's also trying to take over the Zorca Farm and Mepritalastics drug factory. Ladies and gentlemen, at the founding assembly of the Democratic Party in Sapac, Mr Batic declares - prisons will work as gems, by keeping thieves in prison, and criminals in The Hague, but thus expressing confidence that the indictment will also be brought against the KLA leaders, the greatest executioner and criminal of the Serb people. But it's a lie. At the end of this founding committee, where 15 citizens were present, went to the hotel "Galeb" that with its staff and president of the Chamber of Commerce, Radoslav Veseninovic and the owner of the hotel, they were organising the terraves by dawn, and at that time half of the city was blocked due to the security of Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Vladan Batic, which was announced by parents who were returning from a parent meeting because they could not pass that part of the city. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, there are four reasons why Justice Ministers and local self-government Vladan Batic can no longer perform this function. I think that, independently of party membership when voting for mistrust, you must all imagine well. 1. Minister Batic humiliates and derogates the Serbian people's struggle in Republika Srpska, he humiliates the Serbian people's struggle for its survival, he points out that the state could not be based on the foundations that are soaked with other people's blood, but does not mention the blood of Serbian people and patriots. 2. The fight between the Serb people in Kosovo and Metohija is called criminal. A statement in "Glass", on 27 April 2001, where Vladan Batic declares that Serbs who fought in Kosovo and Metohija who defended their people and their country, the Serbian cradle, must be on the accused bench, i.e. must go through moral catharsis and eventually admit to being criminals. 3. The arrival in Belgrade of the greatest criminal Javier Solana. Our judicial authorities sentenced him to 20 years in prison. As soon as he set foot on the Serbian country, he was to be arrested by Justice and Local Self-Government Minister Mr. Vladan Batic. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister Vladan Batic is in a hurry and is therefore speeding up the law on the co-operation of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia with judges of the UN tribunal, likely to cover his tracks. He announces that some of the Yugoslav citizens will surrender voluntarily to The Hague tribunal soon, and this is reportedly done by Blagoja Simic. It could be seen at the airport that Blagoje Simic, in his face, did not surrender himself, but probably under the torture of Prime Minister Vladan Batic. Ladies and gentlemen, it is even more difficult to ask for the surrender of our great heroes Mladic, Sljivancan, and also General Dragoljub Ojdanic, who, by chance, saved himself from kidnapping. Citizens are intimidated by the fact that there are hunters on our citizens. Minister of Justice and Local Self-Government Mr. Vladan Batic has formed a special gang of criminals whose task for a five-million dollar ransom is to kidnap those of our greats. Batic, as minister, is a strange set of violence, self-government, organised gangs, enemy policies and gangs of criminals, and an open instrument of some enemy policies. He cannot, in accordance with the Constitution and the law, accept the limited powers of his ministerial functions. Therefore, in a criminal way, he abuses the Service of State Security and knowingly demonstrates the absence of responsibility and security. 4. Also, he's receiving the greatest Serbian Adem Dematici I believe has started hating Serbs while he's still in the cradle. While the Serb people fought against NATO villains, Mr Batic was on his knees, not on his knees to kneel as a pious man and prayed to God for the salvation of the Serb people and the Serbian nation, but sat on the knees of NATO villains. Mr Batić, as a famous lawyer, knows what moral characters sit on their knees. With this behaviour, Vladan Batic proved that he was not handling the Constitution and the law in his work, that he acted irresponsiblely and unwittingly, and that he was knowingly abused his function for persecution of non-insects. It shows by its behaviour that it has an unhindered influence on the work of other competent state authorities with the desire to extend its functions to other areas that are not within the jurisdiction of the Ministry of which it is headed. This authority is governed by the principle of division into legislative, executive and judicial power. Vladan Batic would have to know that as a representative of the executive government he cannot and must not interfere, interfere and influence a judicial authority that must be independent. Under which provisions of the Constitution or any law, Vladan Batic has the right to inform the public of the details of many investigations. How can he know details that must only be known to the judicial branch of the government that is independent? Vladan Batic acknowledges that he is directly involved in carrying out tasks that exceed the powers of the justice minister and local self-government. Vladan Batic proves that with the prime minister and interior minister, it is some superintendent of the absolute government that is subject to all branches of government. It is all in line with the revolutionary enthusiasm of Vladan Batic. He believes that as a minister now he has the opportunity to recover from all frustrations of a failed lawyer and that all judicial cases must end with the means and the way he did while he was a lawyer. Mr. Batic, where the Serbs were arrested and abducted in Kosovo. Nothing is known about their lives, but it is well known about the Albanian terrorists you fed well and dressed well, and you eventually let them go. You're worried about other people's bodies. And did you launch an investigation into Serb corpses and missing Serbs? This is a great shame and do you feel guilty? As such, you do not deserve to continue to serve as minister of justice and local self-government. I ask that you be arrested urgently for these four cases: 1) for the destruction of the Federal Assembly; 2) for destroying two innocent lives on October 5th and seducing underage children for political purposes; 3) for the arrival of the greatest villain towards the Serbian people of Javier Solana, the criminal has never been declared a hero and the victims to be criminals; 4) for co-operation with NATO villains. In the end, I can say, by looking at Mr Batic as a man and a national MP, that, together with Karl del Ponte, they act as Siamese twins. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7823	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic. Replica? You didn't mention it, did you? Here you go, straight to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7824	Dear ladies and gentlemen, three minutes might be a little more time for a replica of how many attacks there have been. This is already the second or third attack that was directed at me. I am Radoslav Veselinović, owner of the Galeb Group, and have been in private business since 1 January 1971. I've never worked in the social sector. I was certainly a man who, for the past 20 years, had been active in economic flows, and between the 1980s and 1990s, I was one of the biggest businessmen and privates in the former Yugoslavia. As a private representative in the former Yugoslavia, I was in the presidency of the Chamber of Commerce of the former Yugoslavia, and today I am president of the Serbian Chamber of Commerce. I was in Serbia's Chamber of Commerce from the opposition alone, and I have been a member of the DS since 1990, and I was a candidate for MP since 1990, and in 1993 I was a national MP in front of DEPOS. Gentlemen, for ten years I have fought for change in this country and the changes have come. I'm very happy that these changes have come and I think we should all participate, make this country better. All I could do was for these 30 years of work, for the sake and improvement of this Serbia. Today, my firm employs about 200 workers and is one of the best companies in the country. In my town, everyone was present, and in the end, we have an MP from the SPS who was in tax authorities who can say very competently how my company works, how the Galeb works, and what kind of ratings I have in Sapco. There have been too many attacks for this, and in essence, all in order for MPs of the Democratic opposition to be discredited. I think this public knows about it, and I, as president of the Serbian Chamber, do volunteer work every day for 12 hours, not pay, and I didn't want to get a job here, but to get a better job for this country to Serbia. I don't think it's necessary to talk about the terrain we're talking about at the Galeb Hotel. First of all, it's impossible, because my area is not hotel service. With the circumstances, I have a small hotel, which is very modest capacity has 20 beds, but only 16 people can have breakfast or have coffee, which means a gym at some facility that has 16 chairs is not possible at all. A lot of things are incorrect from those claims that have been made, both about Zorka Farm and Metritlastics, these are notorous lies. I've known Mr Vladan Batic since 1990, and that's one of the reasons why I've been a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia today, because as a man who's spent a lot of time in the field of our region and was the president of the region in the 9th-South constituency, I've spent many days with Vladan Batic, one of the fighters for changing the regime in Serbia. Since time is up, I want to say that I'm sure that this is the way I've been working and the way I'm going to work from now on, and I think, along with Mr. Batic and the others in DOS, it's the only way to go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7825	The People's MP Milorad Mircic has the word, and the next one reported for the discussion is the People's MP Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7826	We Serbian radicals expected, if not from members of the Democratic Party of Serbia, and what of this part of Social Democracy to start with a sentence in the defence of the minister of justice, in this case Vladan Batic - wise as Gandhi, and beautiful as a picture. That would be enough to make an argument and that would tell us enough how you and in what way, gentlemen, defend and disprove the arguments with which the Serbian Radical Party came out. The Serbian Radical Party's initiative is an entirely legitimate and legal initiative of an opposition party that forms part of this parliament, and parliament wants to establish principled positions through this initiative, particularly principles in the division of power. Gentlemen, we can close our eyes, we can turn our heads, but what has been happening in these past eight months, when it comes to the functioning of the executive authority and the taking over of all the powers in our jurisdiction, it must, gentlemen, be announced to the public, it must be debated in this House and this Parliament must be declared. Not on the principle of the majority or party membership of the majority, but on the principle of whether we will take a stand for certain parts of that executive government, we warn them in time that they cannot do so. The arguments presented in the defence are that we, the Serbian Radicals, have made arguments out of newspaper articles, and only those parts that speak in damages or to the damages of the Secretary-General. Gentlemen, obviously you have not understood the essence that the minister is a public figure, that the minister is equally responsible for his performances in public, as well as for his work in executive bodies. If, gentlemen, you still think that one life or one work for the grade, one that's in public, and the other what the minister thinks as a private person, then you're wrong. We heard this only from the Serbian government minister, the minister of justice, but we even heard it the other day from the Prime Minister or Prime Minister when he explained to the public that he had stated that Milosevic deserved the death penalty as a private person, and now speaks as prime minister. There's no such thing as duality, gentlemen. The control of the work of a minister who is part of the executive authority is carried out through both how he and how he performs in public, and in particular in that part, as well as in which way he exercises the executive power. The minister himself's claims that he has no influence on the judiciary, or on the judiciary, fall into the water. We all know, gentlemen, that personnel policy within DOS is being conducted on the principle of agreement or agreement, which is not unusual, but don't hide it. No one blames you if the human rights solutions are valid, no one will resent you, but if the personnel solutions are like in the judiciary based on personal initiatives, in this case the minister, then such solutions fall on your soul. After all, you defend yourself, so everyone already knows in Serbia that neither the head of the hall in any province bar can be elected unless it is either a DOS member or a DOS sympathiser. Which party has a larger initiative, a sympathiser and party members will become head of the province's hall. Gentlemen, at this moment, we Serbian radicals are warning of everything the minister of justice has done in the past period. It would be normal, it would be logical for the minister to come out as a resolute minister of justice and say, yes, gentlemen, the executive power, in this case, the Justice Department, is a fact-finding technical service that needs to help the judiciary. We found the situation and so on when it comes to the status of judges, the situation was like that, and now the situation is better than the past, either in any other form or condition. Or -- the buildings and facilities we found, not invested in them, not invested in them, we from the Serbian government invested in the Justice Ministry's initiative in adaptation, in reconstruction, in reconstruction of these objects so much and so much resources. Eight months, gentlemen, it's a long period and the results must be visible if the Ministry did so. The justice ministry, headed by Minister Batic, has no only influence on the judiciary and judicial authorities, but also on the economy, many other spheres of life for which neither as minister, and especially as the leader of a smaller party has any authority or jurisdiction. The "Galenica" case, the "Red Flag", the Majdanpek case, is already known in the economy and goes so far by the minister that he started us in Serbia to share those who cheer for the Star and those who don't cheer for the Star, because his performances in public clearly divide according to cheerleading. Not to mention, gentlemen, the past of which was resorted to by Minister Batic, but it would be one of the interesting details that Mr Batic, not his envoys, as you said, had entered the hall when Serbian radicals beat us, to come out and say that it was during that period, in that meeting when he was expelled from the Democratic Party of Serbia, when, by all rules, his mandate in the Democratic Party of Serbia was automatically terminated by the Rules of Procedure and by the laws of the Democratic Party, as at that time and in what way, he held that mandate against the will of the Democratic Party of Serbia, because the president of the Democratic Party of Serbia, Vojislav Kostunica, the president of the parliamentary group, launched such an initiative. This could have been achieved, gentlemen, thanks to the Socialist majority and now let him explain to everyone when such a moral figure, as he says -- he cares about the truth, and always quotes Father Nikolai, let him say how and how he did it, and for us Serbian radicals at the time, because of the reminders, they took the mandates, translated the MPs and formed other parliamentary groups, and Vladan Batic sat intact in these benches, stubborn or defied the Democratic Party of Serbia. But not to go into that story, it's up to him as a moral figure to explain how he did it. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, here is obviously a scenario that most DOS, respecting coalition discipline or internal policy, prevents the shift of ministers. It might be more honest and honorable if someone from this majority, from most DOS, came out for this pay phone and suggested a secret vote. Let's see how congratulating and honorable you will be if there is a secret vote, let's see how honest you think as individuals are sitting in these benches, that the legislative authority, in this case the Republic Parliament should control the executive authority and every single person in that executive power. Mr. Srjo, what you're cursing, say at the pay phone. If they have not taught you fine conduct, go out for a pay phone, and swear. Don't swear from the bench. As far as all of you are concerned, you have well defended your minister, or rather the DOS minister. Instead of proving to the arguments that we Serbian radicals are wrong, you are resorting to its appearance, the descriptions of its appearance, or Zone B in southern Serbia. That says enough as much as you within DOS, individual parties, support it, as in the extreme case, honestly, think as we do, Serbian radicals, that it is a person, that it is a minister who really needs to come to his turn to show him mistrust. I urge you once again, collegiately or whatever you want, come out for this assembly pay phone, suggest that the vote be secret, not because we expect the opposite result, but because the Minister's conscience is still still, that he sees it working well, that it does what DOS policy is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7827	There is a word from MP Popović Srda [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7828	I accept the sermon I threw from the scene, that was wrong. I said - are you ashamed to vote publicly against Batic, because we are not ashamed to vote publicly against any of our ministers and we are not ashamed to vote publicly for our proposals. You know that it's not DOS MPs who swear in this assembly, so I'm going to tell you just one, a little bit of a changed saying, "It's not nice, but it's deaf." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7829	The word of the People's Messenger is Pal Shandor (infringement of the Rules of Procedure). )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7830	It's about hurting the Rules of Procedure. Please, article 99 says, "The People's Messengers are obliged to respect the dignity of the National Assembly," and I mean that they are obliged to speak the truth. Mr Batic was excluded from the National Assembly on Mr Kostunica's initiative, withdrawn from the list, with some other MPs. Therefore, Mr. Mircic is required in the Assembly to speak the truth and not to insult us. Please, look, it was May or June 1996, see the report of the Administrative Committee. If I have to, I can take a look at the date. It is also excluded from the other list, therefore, you are obliged to speak the truth and not to insult us, since we have a little longer memory, Mr Mircic. You can check everything through the logs. You want me to say which other MP was expelled from the assembly on the same day, by the same decision?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7831	Mr Mircic has the right to reply, but she will be used by Mr Aleksandar Vukic, as representative of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7832	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, as far as these sermons are concerned, moralist, who and how he addressed the MPs and the public, I must also remind the public that the president of the National Assembly has cursed the mother to all MPs, and that you did not want to publish it anywhere, or that a strict ban has arrived on all the media to say a single word. Don't talk about it, because your people are saying, it's not a curse thing, it's something that can't be called a curse, something that's much worse than a curse, and that's what Gordana Pop-Lazic will tell you, because she just doesn't like people -- she heard, she even said about a pay phone what she heard from the man who's sitting behind you, she heard it from him. What you're talking about, you're from the same party, not just the same MP group, and you're talking to others about swearing. Batic came out here, sweared on Thursday, there's nothing he didn't say, there's no nonsense he hasn't said, and we've all been silent, sitting and listening, waiting for the line, so we didn't get that right. As for the story of specialists, which was mentioned, which I did not respond to -- only MP Vesa Jankovic remained inside the hall, except for SRS MPs, when the Socialist police beat up Serbian radicals. I've been here and I guarantee it. I don't want to swear to God, since some others are using it wrongly and immorally, we were in the O.R., Batic was outside the O.R. at the time. At the time, he was against such an incursion by the police, against such intervention, but there was only Veselin Jankovic in the hall, and no one but the SRS when they performed one by one. And that, Mr. Pal, whether he was working with Kostunica, or Batic, and who he was in love with, I don't want to talk too much about it, it's only a question for Mr. Marsican, since he's making that love with the SPS, so whether any of them have ever been arrested, whether he's been arrested, from one party, two parties or three parties. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7833	I have announced to Mr. Alexander Vukic that, on behalf of you, as the MP of the SRS, he is using the right to replication, is that all right? As head of the parliamentary group, but no radical party was mentioned, only Mr. Mircic. There's a word, Mr. Mircic. [[right on line]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7834	You know, Mr. Pal Shandore, if he's lying to a goat, in this case he's not lying to Batic. At that time, in this council, I just remind you, we all blanco signed resignations. We from the SRS, and so did the DSS, MPs of the DSS. Vladan Batic, after a decision by the DSS, ran to court to bring confirmation to the court, confirmed that his signature was forged or misused. This document exists in this congregation. Based on this document, the socialist majority at the time quietly went over the fact. Tell me who replaced the Democratic Party of Vladan Batic, if his mandate has already ceased? Tell me which MP replaced him. He sat with us until the end here and with cynicism, as it were to him, treated the DSS MPs at that time. You, Mr. Pal Shandor, can change political coalition partners, you can change your political views, but you can't change what there is evidence for, for which there are witnesses. You can come out as this pharmacist and tell us that Vladan Batic saved us, which is not true. It was easy to get in when it was all over, when they saw that they couldn't do anything to us, to Serbian radicals, to make themselves, to see that cameras were present, then they all came in, and then Raka Radovic, who was sitting there, was changing the tune. At that time, as with the other MPs of the SRS, immunity was lifted. On request and request, at the time of our colleagues Batic, we took him to be our lawyer, just to help him. He's in trouble, we've looked so wide, let's help the man. So don't think this is personal. It's nothing personal. Come out with facts, then tell me someone's not telling the truth. [[The People's MP Pal Shandor requests the right to reply.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7835	Mr. Pal Shandor, I apologize. You have no right to a replica. You're the one who caused the replica. You called the Rules of Procedure and challenged the replica. There's no replica on the replica. I do not allow you the right to reply, because you have challenged Mr. Mircic's lines. The People's Messenger Tom Bushetić has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7836	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, Minister Vladan Batic committed a number of serious mistakes in his rule for a short time. The DOS, coming to power, has pledged to do everything it can to make the media independent and to make everything possible for the judiciary to be independent. Today we are witnessing that independent media has nothing. All media are absolutely controlled by the ruling majority. When it comes to justice, the judiciary is politicized to the end and it is in the hands of one man above all, and all in line with the interests of the ruling oligarchy, although this ruling oligarchy does not realize that it is not her interest. These days, judges and prosecutors of judicial functions are mass members of the DOS parties, and most often in the DHSS. Why? Of course, a few or a small part of the drive to be presidents, prosecutors, etc., and a larger number out of fear. It is a great fear, as Minister Batic announced that he would change everything, while forgetting the continuing work, when it comes to holders of judicial functions. So the holders of judicial functions can only be replaced under the terms of a certain law. The Socialists have the biggest objections, and it is not just an observation, we think it is a great shame, which is without criminal charges, without investigative actions on the night between March 30th and 31st, an attempt to arrest our President Slobodan Milosevic. Only to execute a NATO pact order that Slobodan Milosevic must be arrested on 31 March. Of course, there were inevitable CNN cameras, BBC, and all of that to be called a spectacle of such criminals as Madeline Albright and Bill Clinton, who were supposed to watch all of this and enjoy that name spectacle. Two days later, a de facto arrest was carried out, again without criminal charges and investigative actions, our President Slobodan Milosevic and with great involvement of police officers. That night, a day later, there were several thousand police officers. Personally, I think it's a great shame for any Serb to be arrested with the presence or with the involvement of so many police officers. The greatest responsibility for all this falls to the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Justice, because without that close cooperation there would be no such thing. After all, today's detention of Slobodan Milosevic in custody has no purpose whatsoever, as President Milosevic simply said in his appeal, nor can he influence witnesses, nor will he flee the country, and it is clear and increasingly obvious - it is not behind any political killings, although certain funds have been carried out, were carried out for the sake of state needs. So it's about to be The Hague. I would rather stick around The Hague, because Minister Batic has repeatedly spoken of The Hague as our reality, that The Hague is our cruel reality. The Hague is a political court for Serbs and there are no dilemmas. If that were the case, numerous examples confirm. What the UN tribunal has done with General Norc - it has decided to judge him in Croatia. How will he be tried? As was the case with Artukovic or Dinko Shakic, it means nothing. What did he do with General Stipetic? He's freed. They say there's no evidence of a flash or a storm. You know how many Serbs died and how exiled they are from their hearths and their territories. And finally, concerning The Hague tribunal, which Minister Batic tells us is our reality, whose creation is the UN tribunal? It is a creation primarily of the US and NATO Pact, those who supported separatism in Croatia, those who supported actions, such as "Storm" and "Blash", those who invented the Markales, who bombed the positions of the Republika Srpska Army and at the end of the Karajev, those who bombed us for 78 days. Why? Because, as they said, there was a humanitarian disaster in Cosmet and because human rights were at stake. Was it a humanitarian disaster? She wasn't. When was the humanitarian disaster? There was a moment when the NATO pact was bombed. The entry of KFOR leads to a humanitarian disaster. When we talk about threatened rights, what rights did the Albanians not have in Cosmet? And we'll talk about that in two days. Some opposition parties say you didn't do it in time. What were we supposed to do on time? What right have they been denied for? Only for one right, the right to self-determination, and the right to self-determination is the right to create your own state. That right, they're on their way very quickly to come true. The constitutional framework goes, elections go November 17th, will have the assembly, government, police, judiciary, and we will have a situation as it was in Tito's time, when Albanians had in their hands these repressive bodies and when Serbs moved out. Only then were they moving out gradually and slowly, and now it's going to be a quick action, when everyone, these remaining 150,000, is going to leave that space. I could ask the new government, why is it done now, when America is a friend of the new government, when America, which dictates everything, is a friend to the new government? I've got an answer. American interests are the same. They absolutely don't care if the SPS and Milosevic, the patriotic parties such as the Radical Party, are in power, or perhaps others. Only when it comes to these parties, their goals are difficult to achieve, and here everything goes very quickly and very easily, as it does in the wrong way. After all, Madeline Albright said at the end of March, she said - I didn't expect that the new authorities would accept all our demands so easily and so quickly. Minister Batic spoke of our guilt. Someone just mentioned that freezer. We need to know where our fault is. The Serbian people and the Serbian state have no guilt whatsoever. The blame is for those who have caused wars. The war in Croatia caused Croatia and Tudjman said - I went to war to make my country more independent. So, it turns out that Tudjman and all the Croats will sooner admit it, than some here in Serbia will accept it. Ali Izetbegovic said, I will sacrifice peace, to have a Muslim state in Bosnia, the Shipars have terrorised us for decades...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7837	Please get back to the subject, Mr. Bushetti.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7838	It's all about The Hague, Batic said it was our reality. Please, someone's here from DOS, I don't know, I know he's an important high-ranking official, he said -- it doesn't matter who started the war, it's important that a lot of civilians died. It doesn't matter who attacked, and it doesn't matter who defended himself. And how important it is. This is the key thing, I'm sorry the minister isn't here, because I'd like him to give me an answer. If we go to that analogy, that principle, in Nuremberg, it was supposed to fit with Yodl, Caitel and Gering, and Eisenhower, and Churchill, and Patton, and Montgomery and all the generals of the North Atlantic alliance, because they killed a lot of civilians too. In Belgrade, 1944, when there was a bombing, more Serbs died than on 6 April at a time of bombing from Germany. That's true. Therefore, it is very important who defended himself, but there was no principle here, they were winners in the war. They were defending themselves. The Germans attacked, the Japanese attacked, and they defended themselves. And in one such defense, there's all these victims. And we fought back. We've been defending ourselves everywhere, and civilians have been killed. We're sorry, but it's true. So there's no fault of ours. When it comes to equality towards all the nations in the Hague process, Florence Artman, a spokesman for The Hague tribunal, says he cannot investigate Albanians because he has no access to investigate their crimes. Where didn't she have access? Crimes were not committed in Krusevec, they were committed in Kosovo and Metohija, and since June 1999. KFOR is the sovereign ruler of these areas. So she could explore whatever she wanted. Another example: to the question of where NATO commanders are, where Clinton is, where Solana, where the generals are, she says there is no evidence that international law has been violated. The evidence is numerous. The aggression started without the Security Council's approval. The targets were civilians. So objects such as RTS, hospitals, schools, bridges, residential buildings have been bombed, and under the Geneva Convention, no military targets should be bombed, if this puts civilian targets at risk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7839	Please stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7840	It's all about the subject, ma'am. I'd like to say a few words about Dragoljub Milanovic's arrest. The Minister's responsibility. He says he knew. What was he supposed to know? The French government, the Italian government said the next day they were shocked by the bombing of Serbia's Radio-Television. Everyone could've guessed, figured out Solana, what Clark was up to. Even the French and Italian governments. I believe that Minister Batic has made serious mistakes and, in the end, should resign as a moral act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7841	The word has the People's MP Golub Rajic. The next speaker is MP Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7842	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, because of all the problems in our country and the consequences they bring, this motion to vote on the mistrust of the minister of justice and local self-government, Mr Vladan Batic, has a basis. It has a basis for all pre-election promises to Serbian citizens, primarily for democratic and legal states and an independent judiciary. What's in it for us today? Very often those who need to do the least to break the Constitution, break the law, they do not commit them. Is it good that individuals are convicted at press conferences, in newspapers, that they are guilty and responsible, regardless of whether they are not initiating procedures to prove their guilt? Is this the legal state where the harangus of political inexperiences are being conducted, where mounted political processes are being organised? Does our state become political, and our courts and prosecutors are single-party, regardless of the constitution that regulates the division of power into legislative, executive and judicial matters? What to say is that in 17 municipalities in Serbia, where the Socialists defeated in the elections, the government's decision changed the will of citizens. I come from the Borski District, where the Socialists won local elections in Negotin, Kladov and Majdanpek, and in Bor he won the DOS very close elections. The victory of the Socialists in Kladov was convincing, and in Kladovo of 40 committees 35 there were SPS - JUL, four DOS, one SPO, in Negotina of 70 SPS, 11 JUL, 10 DOS, in Majdanpek of 41 SPS, eight JUL, 12 DOS and two Citizens. In a proper manner, congregations and executive committees have been established and have begun to work in the interests of citizens who have given them confidence, but regardless of the plea and the will of citizens, the government has disbanded its acts by legally elected authorities and has educated the municipal council since 7 March, first in Kladov, and these days in Negotin and Majdanpek, not respecting the Law on Local Self-Government, nor the Constitution. The municipality of Kladovo is mentioned for this pay phone where, regardless of the functioning of the municipal government, the crisis headquarters is on the scene, which blocks everything for a number of days. Despite notifying relevant factors and talking to everyone, that is not to be prevented. Deputy Minister Protic is talking to the crisis staff, not legal leadership. What does that mean? The government of the Republic of Serbia has passed the current Law on Local Self-Government, under Article 213 of the 1st and 2nd centuries, illegally and counter-constitutionally disbanding the Assembly of Kladovo Municipality and educateing the larger. It's a strange decision. The violent possession of the municipality and other state institutions is not affected, in order to allow for functioning, but the decision and solution legalises lawlessness and political will is legalised. The Constitutional Court has not responded to this yet. The proposal for an assessment of the constitutionality and legality of the government's decision was submitted on 13 March 2001. Neither did the Supreme Court. Protection of the rights of local self-government units has been sought since 3 April 2001. Will he even react? In the municipality of Majdanpek is based on Article 213. The Law on Local Self-Government introduced by the Municipal Council, and before that, enormous pressures, threats, and blackmail were made, above all, towards the Socialists. In the municipality of Negotin, the results of the elections were disputed in some places, although DOS did not have candidates in many places, and all claims were rejected by the court. Furthermore, on March 23, 2001, the DOS's extreme supporters prevented the appointment of an appointment session of the Assembly of the Municipality and forced the resignations of the president of the Assembly and the presidents of the Executive Board. Deputy Minister of Local Self-Government Mr. Markovic praised the peaceful flow of violent incursion into the assembly and under the threat of forced resignation. Of course, according to the already known scenario, he then proposed the introduction of an emergency council and said that the session would not be scheduled until he heard from him, and it appeared on May 8th during the meeting of the Contin Municipality, which was scheduled by the Socialists, and by fax informing us that the cabinet's session was under way and that temporary measures were being introduced, which was not true. There are documents. The government's session was held not until the next day. On 23 March, the SPS's committees were faced with huge pressures and threats, so some of them bowed down, but on 8 May there were 42 committee members, 39 from the SPS, two from the JUL and one from the DOS. The mandatory resignations of some councilors are not even taken into account in the municipality. They are given to the Democratic Party, and by law they should be verified at the first session of the municipal assembly. If the local self-government doesn't work, the ministry should warn her, and only then introduce a forced administration. That's what the law says, but it's not respected. All has been reported by Mr. President of the Assembly and President Kostunica, Prime Minister Djindjic, certain ministries have been informed, but no one has sided with the law, the legality and the will of the citizens in local elections, where, above all, they chose a certain person and only then the parties. The Ministry of Justice and Local Self-Government gave specific opinions, but the application and interpretation of the law, I guess, should give the Assembly as a legislative body because it has passed the law. It's not true that the newly formed larger non-party. Both in the municipality of Kladovo and in Majdanpek are composed of members of DOS. In Negotina, three are members of the Democratic Party, two Democratic parties, one Civil Union, New Democracy, the Democratic Centre and New Serbia. They're local party champions. Only the Democratic Party of Serbia has proposed two non-party figures. Because Minister Batic and his deputies, as well as the ministry, are not helping legally elected leaderships but crisis headquarters, the minister should resign, and the Serbian government should propose to the speaker of the assembly as soon as possible to call extraordinary local elections in all 17 municipalities, so that we can return to democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7843	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric. Let the National MP Bozidar Vucurovic be prepared for discussion.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7844	Madam Chairman, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, representative of the government, as usual, is not there, but that's his problem, but that should be a problem for you, too, an MP from the DOS. The first session we had here, we talked, on Mr Batic's proposal, about the release of criminals and thieves, then at the federal assembly and Shiparian terrorists, probably to free up space for political prisoners who are now getting more and more every day. Let Mr Batic plead how much he as a minister of justice has found political prisoners in prisons and how much of these have been released, this Law on Amnesty. It is possible that Mr Batic is making some mistakes because he is overloaded. A few days ago, we read in the paper about how to give or not give a green light, so it turns out he's as busy as the one who lights the light on green. That's probably why he makes other mistakes, especially in local self-government. To understand one thing here, we're not talking about what the former regime was doing. The theme is - Mr Batic and what Mr Batic is doing in this regime. My friend, if you have anything smart to talk about in that head, come here and talk. You can shut up from where you're sitting. Maybe "a" and "b", we've talked about torture before. The titel is a municipality in South Baba County which is... Hey, kid, stay. I got something for you, too. ) The government of the Republic of Serbia has educated the municipal council in the municipality of Sitel with its decision. In its decision, the Government called for Article 159. The Law on Local Self-Government, which says: "If elections are not carried out in the municipality or after elections have been held for the council committees of the municipality, its bodies shall not be put in place within 60 days of the day of the elections, the Government shall educate the municipal council and the Executive Board to conduct new elections and the establishment of municipal bodies. That is what the President of the National Assembly informs. "The government's decision, on the proposal of Minister Batic, is not based on anything else, because it is its portfolio, is an example of a brutal violation of the law and classical legal violence, for the following reasons (there are worse terms, but to remain on this side): The National Assembly of the municipality of Titel was established on 16 October 2000, therefore, six days after the election and commission of parliamentary powers by the municipal electoral commission. The constitutive session verified the mandate of the committee and adopted a 25-seat verification committee report with 15 votes. The president and vice president of the municipal assembly were elected. The presidential candidates were given by the majority SPS parliamentary group, the seventh month and the DOS minority committee group. Both committee groups proposed the same candidate as vice-president of the Assembly. For the president, with 14 votes out of 25, the SPS candidate was elected, with 24 votes out of 25, the vice-president of the municipal assembly proposed by the parliamentary groups was elected. It was published in the "Official List" of the municipality of Titel, number 12/00, since 18 October 2000. The second session of the Assembly was held on Liberation Day. At the third session, held on 30.10, the president and vice president and members of the Executive Board were elected, and 5 members of the Executive Board were elected at the fourth session - 4.11. In any case, in the 60 days prescribed by the law. It absolutely disproves one of the colleagues who said other things here. At the third session, the education of all permanent working bodies of the National Assembly of Sitel was carried out, according to the Statute and Rules of Procedure, on a parity basis - 60% from the majority committee group and 40% from the minority committee group. The election of the president of the working bodies was made on the same principle. Since the constitution, the assembly has held eight sessions and nine, and then the government has made a decision. Mr Ceda Jovanovic said here on Thursday that where forced measures were introduced, temporary councils or whatever we call them, in any case, cowboy solutions, he said that people were not put there by party parity, but by professional people, which coincides with the elemental truth because in that municipal council, among other things, Mr Lazar Paunic. Mr. Lazar Paunic was a DOS candidate in September, number four in the title and lost to Dr. Jelin Sava, who was a member of the SPS. Also, Mr. Miroslav Curcic, who was placed in the municipal council, number 12, lost to Kozarev Stevan in the settlement. There is another Mr. Marjanov Stevan, who competed almost every local election. It's known as "Sand." What's his name, that's what his results were. He never made it to City Hall. Let's not talk about those who have been thrown out of service for crimes. Also, speaking of expertise, we have to say that those nine in the National Council at the titel have big problems with that expertise. I don't underestimate anyone, and I don't categorize them according to a professional preparation, but on average, those nine can't build up the medium professional equipment. Thus, the criteria of expertise automatically fall into the water. As far as I know, there's enough schooled world in titel that could've done those jobs, if someone's already done a counter-zag shop and done what he did. We've read here in the papers, the papers are yours, the police are yours, the visit of the Fireman and the hacker. It's just that it didn't clear up at the time in the papers, or here, when Mr. Batic talked about it, what was it about? Is hekler the weapons of a vehicle driving a minister, like some kind of formation weapon, or is hekler some modern-day variant of what our moms and grandmothers were heclapping, so now it's some more modern variant? That should be explained. In any case, it's a shame that a minister, something his police reported and said, and the next day she arrested him, that he was talking from a pay phone and he didn't remember any heclars. Then why did they arrest whoever took that heckler the next day? In this assembly building, Mr Batic spoke of a watch shift on Konvanjanska Street, and then there were three Sanitation Vehicles on that shift. Someone may have some extremities on their body that can't fit into one vehicle, but three is too much. One more thing to say, since this assembly speaker was allowed to, in five-six minutes, Mr Batic determines nationality on the basis of reading election results in some other countries. We know that in this and that Yugoslavia, a dozen people wore the same name, and there were different creeds. In this way, disqualifying is, least of all, inappropriate. What we can determine for Mr Batic, on the basis of such criteria, even much better than that, is that Mr Batic is not a Serb, because there are no Christian Orthodoxes. The Serbs are only Orthodox, according to 15 priests of the Serbian Orthodox Church and one bishop, at a rally I attended Thursday. All I thought was that this gathering was dedicated to the great church holiday of Spasovdan, and then I heard from the bishop that it was Cyril and Methodius day. Then I sat in the car to come to the afternoon session of this assembly and I found out that it was actually St. John's, since they said it was a power-restriction, and we only had power-restriction when the winter was strong. It is for the feast of St. John, and for the saviour so far it has not been. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7845	Right on line, Mr. Cedomir Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7846	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, yet this work of ours is not in vain. From the MPs who asked us not until two weeks ago to declare that we are not working on Mondays, and on Tuesdays, and on Wednesdays, and on Thursdays, and on Fridays, we have reached an MP who is still talking about the subject, although in the context of the topic we are rather wandering, so we have come from the request to resolve Mr Batic to the issue of Elektroprivred Serbia, electricity consumption and the problems we are facing. However, since the gentleman mentioned me, I am obliged to say that I did not see any serious argument in the criticism. Namely, three people were mentioned and they were brought into contact with DOS, and I'm not in a position to check it out right now. I give my word I'll do something like that. Of the nine members of the Municipal Council, three are reportedly members of the DOS. (Stevan Z. Guduric, from the scene: It's not about members, it's about candidates, listen to me when I'm talking. ) As regards the introduction of temporary measures in certain local self-governments, it is clear that these temporary measures have been introduced in exceptional circumstances, and it is clear that they have been the result of citizens' efforts in these environments to solve the problems which, truth at a significantly higher level and in different circumstances, were solved on 5 October. All the problems encountered have been solved in accordance with the law. The law was not passed by the DOS, the law was passed while the government was made by representatives of today's opposition and we can only discuss the violation of that law and not the effects of its application. The law nowhere, but does not deny the right of the Government to delegate party representatives to the temporary authorities of local self-government, nor deny the right to delegate representatives of parties in power. He only defines the procedures in which the government provides respect for the law and implements order in a specific, local self-government in which such a thing is impossible. So, we can talk about Titus as a municipality where there were extraordinary circumstances and see if these extraordinary circumstances exist today or not. To those who think that Titel, Kladovo, Batocina, Lebanese are not the environments in which something special happened, compared to, say, the Sava Wreath, Nis, Kragujevac, Kraljevo, which is why the President of Batocina Municipality is on the run today. Which is why you have proposed to the President of Batocin Municipality a number of criminal charges against which several criminal investigations are being conducted, due to serious abuses. It's about Mr. Zivulovic, who is still unreachable from the law today. Was Batocina supposed to be a municipality without leadership because Mr. Zivulovic was your representative of the government there. You haven't mentioned those municipalities you have no argument about, but I'm saying the law applies to everyone. So, in temporary, or local self-governments where emergency measures are imposed, elections will be organised in accordance with the law, and we can only discuss whether or not that law has been violated. I guarantee you it's not. As for the problem we have with electricity, these problems are serious, but certainly not because of our negligence, but rather because of the difficult situation, the general society, in which the EPS has taken over the burden of ensuring social peace, let's say through the fact that electricity is treated at three times the value of its market value or economics. So these are facts that I don't want to put into the function of discrediting the previous government, but no one here will be able to prove that the EPS has not taken over the burden of providing social peace. It could've been like that for five, ten years, but it can't anymore. Empty batteries, exhausted plants, are certainly the consequences of the kind of policy that we have to face today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7847	Mr. Jovanovic, time. Replica? You are not mentioned at all, nor the Serbian Radical Party, do not approach.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7848	Now I'll tell you, the truth is...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7849	You're not the proposer of the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7850	We are proposing the Law on Local Self-Government, Gordana Pop-Lazic, the Minister for Local Self-Government is a member of the SRS and has proposed the Law on Local Self-Government. It's a lie that you can impose temporary measures under that law when a group of citizens requires it. Where is this provision in the Law of Local Self-Government? To gather a group of citizens to interfere with the work of the assembly session of the municipality and therefore to introduce temporary measures. No, that's why it's up to the police to intervene, to disperse a group of citizens, and that's because it interferes with the work of legally elected authorities. You express your right, you have created a practice for us that wherever you don't like legally elected councilmen who establish a congregation majority and when it's not your majority, then give you the green light to form a crisis headquarters. Fifty, a hundred citizens were enough to sit in front of the municipality, break glass and say, "The assembly of the municipality can't function," instead of saying that the Secretary of the Interior in that municipality is taking steps to enable the people chosen by the people in the elections to do their job." It's a terrible twisting of thesis. It never happened to you when you were in opposition. You won the city in order, and Milosevic tried to take your election victory, but when he confessed to defeat, all of your local self-governments, except for Old Town in Belgrade, where SPI and the Socialists together imposed temporary measures, all functioned without any pressure from the state. There may have been financial pressures, at a time when there wasn't enough funding, perhaps that some of the funds had not arrived with municipalities, and even the government had passed such regulations. There was no one for it, so it could not be given to the municipalities as much as it belongs to them. If you had been disturbed by police by the work of the elected authorities of the municipality, please state only one municipality in Serbia. In Novi Pazar there is a prominent Turkish flag at the assembly session of the municipality, which is the Serbian government that would not immediately introduce temporary measures, and you have introduced -- it has begun to celebrate Turkish holidays as a state. Please don't mention New Market, God forbid you keep working like that. I think you'll have a chance under DOS authority for that. What happens to electricity is pressure on us to accept a 40% harvest that takes effect on June 1st and nothing else. And every month there's a new addition going on, and every month we're going to have a few days of restrictions to figure out how difficult the situation is, how it could work, and now it can't work anymore. It's just a reason. I ask you not to be false about anyone who has proposed the Law on Local Self-Government. The law of this rampage, this heiduk doesn't allow. This is done by the government of the Republic of Serbia and its resolution ministers, both the interior minister and the minister of local self-government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7851	According to the Rules of Procedure, Stevan Ž.Gudurić and Mr. Zoran Radovanović.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7852	Article 96, I wasn't talking about just three members of the Municipal Council in Title. I was talking about Mr. Ceda Jovanovic...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7853	Article 96, what? You're looking for a right to a replica? I won't allow it. You didn't mention it at all. You have no right to a replica, Mr. Guduric, you have misused a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7854	Article 96...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7855	Article 96 refers to the right...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7856	... He's misreading the exhibit, and I wasn't talking about just three, I was talking about Mr. Chad saying on Thursday that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7857	Please, Mr. Gooduric, I'm not giving you my word, you have no right to a replica. Please leave the pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7858	Will you once introduce the same criteria for everyone?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7859	It's the same criterion. I didn't even give Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7860	I'm not interested in Pal Shandor. Just let me do it one more time...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7861	I'm not giving you my word, Mr. Gooduric, I'm going to turn off the sound. According to the Rules of Procedure, MP Zoran Radovanovic. (Stevan Z. Guduric, from the site: will you introduce the same criteria for everything, it is not a shame at all. Don't get any out of the place, Mr. Guduritch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7862	In the presentation of the head of the DOS parliamentary group, Cedomir Jovanovic, Article 98, Article 99, Article 1. - by whom the messengers of the people are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly. It's true again, and I said that in the 51st Councilman Alexinac, 24 DOS councilmen resigned. Thirty-one committee members have signed that they will work in the interest of the Assembly of the Municipality. There were no problems, no street conflicts, no government obstructions, and no temporary measures were introduced in such a municipality, regardless of what 30 committee members were doing, signed, and the Assembly of the Municipality of Alexinac worked. I believe that being told is an insult to the dignity of this congregation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7863	According to the Rules of Procedure, you have the right to the replica, to present Radovanović. Cedomir Jovanovic is mentioned by Mr Radovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7864	Vice President Micic, please judge whether I have the right to the replica of Mr Nikolic who mentioned me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7865	You don't, because you caused the replica, but you have the right to reply to Mr. Radovanovic's presentation, which he mentioned at the time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7866	Mr. Radovanovic is a party representative who is trying to defend the truth after everything she has done. I don't want to replicate it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7867	According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7868	I advertise the violation of the Rules of Procedure, Article 96, a parliamentary group and recognition -- what my predecessor, counterpart Cedomir Jovanovic, is saying, is a representative of the party that is trying to hide the truth. The truth is obvious. In a hundred and a few days, the government of the Republic of Serbia introduced a forced administration into 17 municipalities. Forced administration under the existing Law on Local Self-Government can be introduced on several grounds.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7869	Mr. Obradich, you're also using straight replicas. You're the one who took out the breach of the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Beard, I'm not giving you my word because you have no right to a replica. You didn't mention it at all, I don't know if you recognized each other. You can apply for a discussion. You're right. If you want, we can make sure that the Rules of Procedure is hurt. So you don't have the right to a replica. The word has a People's MP, Vucurović Bozidar, and the next one registered for discussion is MP Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7870	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has applied for the release of Mr Vladan Batic's justice minister for his actions or inaction since 5 October, i.e. from the moment of taking office as justice minister. Mr. Batic obviously didn't see it that way. He realized that we were looking for his solution because of what he did or did not do when he was little. We have no doubt that he was a good kid when he was a kid, that he listened to his parents, neighbors, teachers, and teachers. We seek his solution because he now listens to Serbian enemies, Sean Sullivan, Javier Solana and Carla del Ponte. We are not asking for his resolution because he filed a criminal complaint with The Hague tribunal against Javier Solana and for having filed such a report with the district public prosecutor's office. We're looking for his resolution because he and Javier Solana are kissing each other, and he's not arresting him on the basis of a judicial verdict that hasn't been changed, and it hasn't been annulled, and Mr. Solana hasn't been even as up-to-date as some of his students and other terrorist groups. We are not asking for his resolution because the Dayton Peace Accords contain a single line of co-operation, not with The Hague tribunal, because 99% of the MPs in this assembly hall neither read the Dayton Agreement, but on the co-operation of the signatories in investigating and condemning war crimes. So, not because of that one sentence about The Hague tribunal, we are looking for its resolution because one sentence is working on Serbian damage. We are not asking for his resolution because co-operation with The Hague tribunal is not in the jurisdiction of the Serbian government. We know, too. We seek his solution because he behaves like he is and he speaks as if he is, because he is blackmailing coalition partners, because he is willing to tear up even the little Yugoslavia that remains unless he has a lifelong desire for Serbs to deliver to their executioners. We're not looking for his solution because he's a believer and he's going to church. We are looking for his solution because of the billboard throughout Belgrade, and possibly Serbia, blasphemed posters with his image and God's words. We're not asking for his solution because the courts convicted criminals from previous regimes, because the courts didn't judge them. We seek his permission because he condemns them in public information, at public meetings and in official statements before giving a court ruling. We're not looking for his solution because he has a house in Obrenovac. May he have had more than that, he may have had two offices in Obrenovac, he may have had an apartment and an office in Terrace number one, and he may have had a villa and a bar in Divchibara and may God have called himself "The View", and he may have also paid at Zlatibor, and he may have charged 60,000 marks of every house council in the country, that his working day was worth more than 500 marks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7871	Mr. Vuchurovic, these are not wishes and greetings. Please return to the topic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7872	You're not funny at all, ma'am. I'm talking about Vladan Batic. Just so God doesn't have a private prison and that prison is called Serbia. We are looking for his solution because the material position of judicial employees is catastrophic, which deals with all other affairs, except those that need to improve the position of employees and enable the normal functioning of the judicial system. We are not asking for his solution because in this country some people were convicted of something by what he says is a criminal and non-democracy regime. We are looking for his shift because as a minister of justice, which is unimaginable for an ordinary man, the urbi et orbi declares the names of people who were once convicted of something. And what happens when someone sues someone for it? Nothing. He doesn't do anything, and nothing, for God's sake, no court. In every date for this speaker, Mr Batic referred to God and the Serbian Orthodox Church. Orthodoxy, or Orthodox countries, do not know political parties with a prefix of democracy or perhaps know them. If they know them and confess, then perhaps his holiness to Patriarch Paul blessed the formation of his party, and if he did not bless then he probably had something either against the name of the party or against the honorary vice president of the party, a member of the Mun sect. Orthodoxy does not know hate, and Mr Batic defends himself against arguments of hatred and untrueness. If Croatia were Mr Batic, his cousins from Dubrovnik, Batic Dr Jera and Batic Dr Franjo, they would say he is a bad Croatian. If Musliman, his relatives from Sarajevo and Tuzla, Batic Bakir, Batic Meho, Batic Mesud, Batic Omer and others would say he is a bad Muslim. The Serbian public said he was a bad Serb these few days. Mr Batic did not come to power 100 days ago, he has been in power since October, which is full seven months, and before that, because his party's vice president, Rada Trajkovic, was in Kushner and Thaci's government in Kosovo and Metohija. Something else is symptomatic - Mr Batic knows all the sayings of the great bishop Nikola Velimirovic concerning a lie. He probably knows the sayings about lies and other authors, but I don't understand why he taught those sayings at all? For example, I only memorize those sayings that apply to things that I love and to things that I practice. There's no Mr. Batic to ask him - what about you, Mr. Batic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7873	The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7874	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Vladan Batic, minister of justice and local self-government, began to violate the Constitution and the laws, and the minister's duty to perform irresponsiblely and unconsciously. Is that true? Yes. Is there any lie in there? No. And here's why these findings -- first, organized gang of criminals, headed by Batic on October 10, 2000 -- fall into Galenika, all in style in the spirit of the Ryan Committee of the revolutionary October Soviets, or crisis headquarters. From someone who's a doctor of law, from someone who's a lawyer and someone who's, by chance, just a minister of justice, a strange way of understanding justice. The raid was carried out in favour of Mun's follower, Milan Panic. Gentlemen of the DOS, regardless of our request, the request of the SRS, the discharge from Mr Batic's ministerial duty, lies on you an even greater responsibility, that, because of this and these cases, you resolve Mr Batic and help him resolve the moral, ethical, psychological and professional dilemma that he is unable to resolve, and that you decide instead - whether he will be the minister of justice and protect the state interests or be the legal representative of Milan Panic and thus protect his own personal interests. You decide on your own, whether you're still DOS in power or becoming an opposition to democracy. In a similar way to "Galenica" Vladan Batic with Miodrag Savivic, he raided the Zastava - Cars factory. Compared to Galenika, the only news was that guns were replaced with long-range weapons. He kidnapped the flag-cars and publicly announced that from that moment on, the DHSS is taking care of employees. An identical case of distorted perception of justice, rights, protection of legitimacy, legality and reputation of profession. Perhaps you can convince me, though I don't know how, that you are the force, that DOS that needed Serbia, Serbia that expects changes for a better tomorrow, to return the reputation to Serbia, to restore honor, honesty, morality, dignity. If you're all of this, gentlemen of the DOS, then you don't need a minister like this, then you're on the side of the SRS, too, on the request for Mr Batic's discharge. If you vote in confidence with Batic, then the people with full right will attach to you the slogan of the SRS "DOS is the worst". Vladan Batic, on the case of Galenika and the flag, confirmed in the most impressive way how he respected the rules and how much he had to remain minister. Thirdly, whether the minister of justice can be a person who, during NATO's aggression, has filed a criminal report against the responsible, i.e. Unresponsible NATO officials? The court, according to Batic's suit, condemned them, some of them even arrived in Serbia, and Batic humbly and servily received them, shook hands with them, kissed, looked after and anointed them. If such a homing has missed the attention of the CIA when setting up the DOS government and resolution ministers, it is up to you to correct that oversight and to replace Batic, because of the hostile relationship with only you good friends from NATO, or, if not for that reason, to replace him because he did not ask the judicial authorities and the MUP to arrest Solana, because he is the same judicial verdict, thanks to Batic. Does DOS protect such a minister and do such a minister suit you? To us, Serbian radicals, no. Fourthly, the minister of justice and local self-government has repeatedly told him that some things are unknown to him and that only after some arrests, after some extraditions, following the indictments brought to the DOS newspaper, some things he personally learned, and that the actors of these events had neither seen nor interfered anywhere. He neither hears nor knows nor interferes, nor does the work of a minister, nor should he be a minister, although we are witnesses of his great activity, that he announces arrests, that he judges and condemns in advance, that he may be the only god, that he may be all and all. Fifth, since Mr Batic is Minister of Local Self-Government, even in 17 municipalities i.e. 10% of the municipalities this Serbia has, forced administration has been introduced. How much zeal for rematchism is expressed by a man who claims to be deeply religious and not to hate. And what's really -- DOS crisis headquarters created unrest, blockades of local self-government, and terrors. Minister Vladan Batic comes immediately afterwards with his prepared proposal and the introduction of a forced administration. Batic's revolutionary and violent scenario comes into effect immediately. He is not bound by it, by no means, by the will of the people and by the results of the local elections. Is this DOS democracy, whether it has examples from the past, the hated regime -- it is hardly there, with rare exceptions, if you take an example of Titus or the Old City. But there is hatred, there is rematchism, and especially there is neglect of the electoral people's will. There is another reason why Mr Batic needs and must be removed. Vladan Batic, in his statements conveying funds for public notification, announces the names of the person, who will be delivered to The Hague tribunal, although he is familiar with it, ladies and gentlemen MPs, the provision of the SRJ Constitution that a Yugoslav citizen cannot be deprived of citizenship, expelled from the country, nor extradited. For Vladan Batic, the previous regime had war criminals. He personally found it, he declared it, and he condemned you. According to Batić, the courts are unnecessary. What would you do next to Minister Batic? Minister Batic, who does not respect the Constitution, who is a Serb head hunter, who is a lifer arrested at the UN concentration Hague, who wants to be both a capo and an aide to the executioner, does not deserve justice in the name of being a minister of justice. In the name of honor, in the name of morality and rights, in the name of children Blagoj Simic, in the name of children Milomir Stakic, and in the name of the Lord God, to whom Mr Vladan Batic is constantly called, Batic must be resolved. Can this man organize and manage the affairs of the state administration in the area of justice? It is certain, ladies and gentlemen, that you too will share the opinion of the SRS, that it certainly cannot. As such, Vladan Batic does not deserve to continue to serve as justice minister and local self-government, better than heclers to take over.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7875	The word has a National MP, Slobodan Janjic, and the next reported for the discussion is MP Dragan Rafaelovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7876	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the parliamentary majority, if your honor and morality had been your guide in the appointment of the minister of justice and local self-government, today there would be another topic on the agenda, much more important for the citizens of Serbia. In normal countries, someone who robs banks can't be a security guard of banks or vaults. In normal countries, someone who engages in prostitution or commits various other crimes cannot be an educator or minister of education. However, only under this authority in Serbia for the minister of justice and local self-government may be appointed a man whose work résumé says that for 17 years working as a lawyer, he has done everything in his power to deceive the judiciary, criminals freed, and victims found guilty; he has asked his clients, or accused of lying under oath to the judicial authorities, and so did Mr. Vladan Batic. By breaking into Galenika with his gang of criminals, he has done great damage to the factory, endangered the normal process of production, endangering thousands of patients whose lives depend on the drugs produced by Galenika. The robbery of finished goods and raw materials was carried out without being held accountable. Thousands of diabetics and other chronic patients suffer daily, and some die from lack of medication. And if he didn't want to, Vladan Batić was in the blood, or it became a habit, to lie and deceive whether he wanted it or not. It is a vice or habit in Mr Batić, such as the vice of some people, drugs or alcohol. That this is true, I will give you some examples of Mr. Vladan Batic's misdemeanor. I come from a small community, from southern Serbia where everything is known and found out in five minutes. Before the October revolution, and especially later, Mr Batic becomes a frequent guest of Surdulice, i.e. Cats and its leaders suspected of multimillion dollar robbery and malversion. All the money was removed in banks in Cyprus, London, Signupura and who knows where else. Because of citizens who do not know that Cat is the key to the business of Bora, Majdanpek, all cementers and all profitable mines it is important to note that none of these companies or mines can organize production without Cat products. He knows that during the embargo, the most transitory border was the Bulgarian-Macedonian border and that gross malversion went that way. It does not take much sense and to find out that the sweat and pain of many workers Bor, Majdanpek, cement factory, and even the factory of artificial fertilizers, of course, and Matka's worker, has been turned into dollar bills in the pockets of individuals, as well as in Mr Batic's pockets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7877	Sir, please be careful what you say, I pray you indeed and warn you for the first time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7878	I really didn't know you were behind me, next time put in my mirrors, so I'll be careful, you're changing as you wish here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7879	Well, install the mirrors yourself, there I can't help you, but here I am, behind you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7880	He's in close contact with all the key people in that dirty business. These same people are under Mr Batic's direct protection, so so far they remain unreachable to the investigative and judicial authorities. One of the former SPS General Board members and now DHSS, Mr. Dragan Lakicevic, has acquired an apartment in London, a villa in Cyprus, a five-person apartment in Belgrade, a construction crane worth a million marks, and with one of the Cat's directors owns a factory in Cyprus. The factory is headed on behalf of Deputy Director Ace Djordjevic and one of Gadzic's former directors. This is easy to prove, shares and dividends are at the capital of Mr. Nicovic's bank. So, it's all about argument, name, last name, and gentlemen will find each other. Since Mr. Batic is an accomplice and a shareholder, I hope he will answer. Maybe the Director of Cat and the Director of Galenika bought you an apartment in London, since theirs is in the same building. They're both members of the DHSS. Maybe that's where you created the DHSS colony. Mr. Batic, this close associate of yours and a member of your party, with your permission, now draws up a list of similar judges, prosecutors and judge presidents in southern Serbia, or in the Pcinj County, who will, on your orders, clear the tracks of these misdeeds. Do you think it's normal for the minister of justice after midnight at the Cat factory with suspects of multimillion-dollar robberies to hold secret meetings, warning them to hide their membership in the DHSS until the storm quiets down, and then, according to that people's -- we'll be easy. When I first called Mr. Batic on the frontline, Mr. Batic justified his midnight stay at the Cat factory by visiting the factory because of complaints from 40 fired workers who made public claims about millions of robberies in his factory. I have checked your allegations and it has been found that out of 40 fired workers, who pointed to the robbery of the director and you, of course, that only one member of the DHSS or 2.5% of the dismissed workers were returned to work. The big effect of the big minister - 2.5% was returned after your intervention. That, Mr. Batic, doesn't drink water. You're involved in that robbery up to your throat, and you're gonna have a hard time coming up. Perhaps the shift of Vuk Obradovic in connection with this robbery, as investigators of his investigative team questioned the individual transactions in which you were involved. So much for that. Even more dangerous for citizens are your undercover warrants orbiting the underground, that any information with the address of any Serbian hero or patriot on the Hague list you pay 50,000 marks in cash. After that, your criminals, with socks on their heads, arrests and Serbian heroes and hand them over for five times to Serb villains or directly to The Hague.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7881	Mr. Janjic, you're really exaggerating, I'm giving you a second warning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7882	Sir, we're here to discuss Mr. Vladan Batic's guilt and I'm bringing it up, nothing else.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7883	If you can't discuss someone's guilt differently, I'm asking you to take care of what, how, and what you're talking about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7884	I accuse you of putting your mercenaries in the ranks of a group of fans in Belgrade, who will instead target the youth and children in sports by fulfilling your dirty political goals and conflicting with each other. The message to fans is that everything from politics is being expelled from their ranks. Mr Batić identifies our sports fans with English hooligans, so he prepares or prescribes a law that regulates the behaviour of fans in the stadium. Perhaps he thinks that ours too, according to him, is forbidden for children and youngsters to attend sports events. Well, we're not English. Mr. Batic, in order for someone to be a leader or chief must have a head and head place where the feather will be put in. You have it, it's full of evil and evil, and if you were an honorable man, you'd resign and criminally answer for all the crimes you've committed so far. You know well that thousands of pine and Mayan miners have not been paid for years, and some of their money has ended up in your pocket. You also owe Cat's workers robbed shares and dividends that are now under your control and control of the directors you're protecting. Whoever doesn't vote for your shift probably thinks crime is a virtue, and honesty is a flaw and it's an honor. I guess it's DOS's declared fight against crime and criminals. Bosilegrad is the only municipality on the territory of the Pcinj County where forced administration was introduced. The measures were taken because after the Friday-October revolution pressured the committees elected in September's local elections to resign. Pressure under the DOS firm was carried out by a political lobby gathered in the separatist party, the Democratic Union of Bulgarians in Yugoslavia. Why the separatist? In December, gentlemen, the same party printed a map of aspirations on Serbian territory of Piroth, Dimitrovgrad, Surdulica, to Morava. I'll give it to you all, both you and the press. (President: Time. ) In December 1998, a two-month paper was printed in Bulgaria dealing entirely with issues in Serbia, Kosovo and Metohija, as well as a review of some historical events. A map of a new Bulgarian, third country, with interesting aspirational moments was printed in the middle of the Assembly. Namely, the municipality of Bosilegrad, part of the municipality of Surdulic, as well as a good part of the Pirot County are covered by the borders of the new Bulgarian state. In our country, this magazine, with a map, introduced and distributed the Cultural and Information Centre in Bosilegrad. That magazine was printed in 1998. This political option in Bosilegrad has never had much important support in a people who experience Serbia and consider their country and who live in it and who want to live. What will support them and the election of the people when under the conductor's stick, Vladan Batic, slapping and kicking the legally elected councillors, takes power in the manner of the Saltate Emperor Boris, who, after all, is more than an idolatry. In this way, the so-called and defeated self-proclaimed patriot and believer Vladan Batic becomes a direct exhibit and protector of the win-winked Santefhan aspirations of the apostates of the Bulgarian brothers' people in Serbia and Yugoslavia. Gentlemen, after the introduction of a forced administration, these Separatists have dug a stone amongsts marked by the People's Republic of Bulgaria 25 km in Yugoslavia, on the Vlassin Lake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7885	Mr. Ambassador, I'm warning you in time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7886	Mr. President, a minute or two won't, I guess, cause a lot of trouble. Please let me finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7887	You can't finish in 13 minutes, Mr. Janjic. You should have taken care of the time when preparing your exposure. You know how long the debate is going on. I guess you're up to it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7888	Mr Batic covers two key ministers, and he has committed so many crimes that we cannot even count them, let alone explain them, so the MPs know how to vote. You should have allowed MPs to expose as much as they have the material and evidence for the proven criminal Mr. Vladan Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7889	Your MP group has been talking for almost five hours. If you're not able to make your arguments in five hours, then I don't know what's enough. The word has a folk MP Dragan Rafaelovic, followed by Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7890	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I did not go out to defend Vladan Batic, because I have nothing to defend him from. All the arguments that, I say, accuse him of "I read in the paper" or "I heard from an anonymous source," in fact, "someone told me." So it's not about that, it's about something else. If anyone else was a justice minister, he'd be on the stand if he wanted to do his job right, that is, by law. The proof of that is that the motionary is being disturbed by the minister of police. And it's not about personality, because it would be anyone else who should be doing that job. Vladan Batic has no need to be afraid of someone who does not commit crimes or anything like that. I thought, even, not to discuss this issue. I'm reporting as his neighbor, invited by that story and mentioning the name and last name from Croatia. As for Vladan Batic, because of his background and his honesty, Dragan Rafaelovic is a member of the Democratic Party, and you can ask Mr. Slavko Neskovic, the president of yours - I am speaking to the promoter - the municipal board if this means anything in Obrenovac. If you go along the women's line, from Obrenovac to Piroman, through the Misic family, you will reach Struganika. As for Batic, Mutic, the male line of the family, they celebrated in his father's hometown yesterday, Dren, a young week. I think we'd be very happy to welcome you today, no matter what insults they've heard here, to the ducks, as we say. I answered the phone about another thing that's really hitting me, that's really bothering me and that's embarrassing. I'm one of the youngest MPs here, three months or something more. It doesn't matter. I thought we were going to talk about much more important issues here. When I go among people and they ask me -- what about my company, when we're going to settle the debt issue, when you're going to solve the issue of privatisation and everything else, I'm ashamed. Because of this kind of thing, we can't talk about it. I propose to all MPs that we change the way we work in the future, to change even the way we vote on the agenda, to watch what topics come on the agenda, because when we do everything that people live on, what people expect us to do, then we can talk about everything else. As for each minister and every member of the government, I agree, their work should be discussed, but only when they have a chance to do something. So we should see what they've done. Still in Obrenovac judge judges from the previous assembly, judge of law, and the witnesses are guilty. Not all judges, but individual. Why? Because there's no judge's shift on the agenda. As for us at DOS, you accuse DOS of protecting Vladan Batic. I think you heard from Mr. Marijan Risticevic's discussion that we in DOS are not unique in that opinion. If I understand him correctly, he thinks Vladan Batic is guilty. I don't know if I got it right. I would ask the majority in Parliament to make the next vote of the agenda a topic of which this people live. I apologize to the citizens, especially the citizens who are in a difficult situation, even though I am not guilty of the hard words spoken for this pay phone, or the agenda we have, but I apologize, because they are not really up to this.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7891	Mr. Nikolic, there was nothing in the negative context about you. No offense, no injuries. Don't play games. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: He said he spoke to the promoter. So what? He spoke, but it's not a cause for replication. You've wasted your right to exhibit and final word. There's no replica here. Okay, I'm terrorising the Serbian Radical Party, but there's no reason for replication. There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic. After him, MP Zoran Cirkovic. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: The injury of the Rules of Procedure! ( b) By what member?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7892	Now I see that DHSS MP was right about what he printed about you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7893	Yes, it is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7894	Obviously there was a lot of truth.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7895	He passed the school of radicals.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7896	That's why it's true, Mr. President. Here, the predecessor directly called the motioner of the initiative and said we were wrong to ask for the release of Justice Minister Vladan Batic, and cited the arguments he misread from our presentation, especially from the presentations that I made here at the beginning. He invited me to celebrate with Vladan Batic. Isn't that enough ground for you to have me out for this pay phone, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7897	No, you can go to glory, but you can't go to a pay phone.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7898	He didn't even invite me to glory. He invited me to cover or ducks, as they call it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7899	That's enough to go to glory.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7900	It's not enough. I choose who I go to to celebrate. I only go to the right people, to the host. I do not go to those who glorify God in speech; but those who glorify God in soul.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7901	Okay, now we're going to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7902	Mr. President, I don't go to those neighbors who break glass and throw paint. They're so popular in Obrenovac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7903	Now you're saying something that will force me to take away your word, because you've already got more than a lot of warnings.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7904	And you will surprise me so much, Mr. President, by taking away my words, that I will remain amazed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7905	You'll remain a hive.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7906	I even agree to these accounts with you, that you have the full protection of your secretary, of your majority, of your terrorist performance here, and I am so helpless as to go out for the pay phone only when you make it possible. I'll take it by competing, Mr. President. But, uh, install a mirror here, at least let me see your face while you're talking, if I can't react otherwise.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7907	I can't see you either.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7908	Will you shut up?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7909	I won't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7910	Do you want to talk?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7911	The problem is, I can take your word, you can't take it away from me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7912	I know it's a problem, but that's your problem, Mr. President, not mine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7913	You must keep that in mind when you violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7914	My party is not called democratic, mine is democratic. Your name is democratic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7915	Are we done with the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7916	I think you must have called it democratic to convince us that you are Democrats, by the name of Serbia, to convince us that you belong to Serbia. We don't do that. We behave democratically, and we will radically when you force us to. But if you'll excuse me, you're wasting my time, just to warn the predecessor...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7917	Don't warn. We'll do that later, if I give you a word for the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7918	The replica is that it is good that we have prevented you from working here on some other laws, at least a little relieved the citizens of Serbia both of the tax laws and of this privatisation that will rob them of everything alive. Maybe this was good, and maybe it was good and we gave you a chance to write some material for Wednesday...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7919	Mr. Nikolic, I take your word. You keep breaking the Rules of Procedure. Do you know who is said to be so persistent? The word has been given by MP Zoran Ćirkovic Why are you throwing it out of place, Mr. Wolfie? [[Marian Risticevic, from the place: What about my replica?]] [[Božidar Vucurovic, from the place: What was there for the replica?]] Who asked you to yell from the scene? The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7920	Mr. President, I'm advocating a breach of Rules of Procedure, Article 99, Section 2, which says, "The Members of the People are obliged to address one another with respect." Sometimes you lose sight that you're the first among the equals. And you are the People's Messenger who has been elected to this post. I see no reason why when Tomislav Nikolic, president of the SRS parliamentary group, talks behind this speaker, on his comment or the word "supervised", you say the hive is. You know, it's not appropriate for anyone to comment like that. Let it go, MPs break the Rules of Procedure, sometimes speak outside the agenda, but at least at some point rise above all of us and see it realistically, equally to all of you. You can't as an MP or as a man, Tomislav Nikolic, by throwing it away. It's not delicious, Mr. President. The break you took, I thought it would work on you positively. Obviously, it's the opposite. Therefore, do not violate the Rules of Procedure, stick to the Rules of Procedure, be equally tolerated. No MP deserves any of his fellow MPs, especially the president of this assembly, to call him a log and comment on his performance the way you try.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7921	You've caused a storm of applause. I only do so when there is a harsh violation, a violent, conscious violation of the Rules of Procedure and abuse of parliamentary right to report for word by the Rules of Procedure, and never again. If anyone thinks, he thinks, if someone's playing, he's playing, if anyone's amazed... That's it. The word is Marijan Rističević, a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7922	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Rafaelovic mentioned my name and last name and conditions are being obtained to obtain a replica. He even misread that I told Mr Batic he was guilty. I said he wasn't guilty of what they're accusing him of, and if he's guilty, he's guilty of not implementing the Law on Political Organizations, Article 12, which prohibits the spread of impatience. Here two parties have used such expressions for many years and had such acts, no doubt there has been a spread of religious and national hatred or impatience. I also said, if he's guilty of anything, he's guilty of saying in "The Evening News" that the Central Prison will work as a dragster. Not because he said it, but because he didn't do it without having time to make it right. Speaking of The Hague, I said we were not in favour of co-operation with The Hague tribunal, so gladly, but it was signed by someone who signed the Dayton Agreement. I would recommend Batić to another measure, which is that socially beneficial work with two programs - free field assistance and free help in the mine. I'm not for The Hague tribunal. I'm for someone to dig an orphan, someone to dig coal. Speaking of The Hague, some speakers here prove that these in The Hague should consider opening up a madhouse next to the courtroom. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7923	The word is Tomislav Nikolic, a violation of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7924	Mr. President, both you and your top secretary have injured the Rules of Procedure, Article 96. Ambassador Marijan Risticevic had no right to reply, and you know it very well. If you'd like to start with that practice, you'd better call off the Rules of Procedure. The MP of a group of MPs cannot challenge a replica. I hear there's some unarticulated sounds coming out here. Therefore, Article 96(1) reads: "If the MP in his presentation at the meeting of the National Assembly is insolently expressing himself about the MP from another parliamentary group, stating his name and name or function, that is, misread his presentation, the MP to whom the presentation relates shall have the right to replication". Mr. President, you can use such petty ruses as used by Mr. Minister who always comes before the end of the debate to hold a letter. But then tear up this Rules of Procedure. I don't know how you're going to silence the conscience of a large number of lawyers you have in your parliamentary group. Not only did you give Mr. Rističević the right to the replica, but you let him repeat everything he said before he invested Minister Batić -- well, you weren't there when I was saying, to see what I was saying about you. Now give me the right to repeat everything I said wrong about Batic, to show -- well, you see, you weren't there to see what I was saying about you. Please, Mr. President, or ask your secretary to advise you as a lawyer, not as a man who hates us or as a man who belongs to your political party, or find an objective lawyer who will only tell you what is in the Rules of Procedure and what is not. His nod in different directions, his gesticulation of the hands that you say are ticks, they speak more about it. He, advising you on Thursday, caused chaos in the National Assembly and great debates among MPs beyond that. If he'd nodded his head like this, even if it was a tick, you'd have given me a straight line. Since he was nodding like this, you realized that I had no right to reply and that's how you did it. In the future, let him give you a sign, when the climate, whether it's just or giving you advice on what's in the Rules of Procedure and what's not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7925	I'm just going to surprise you right now. I've really broken the Rules of Procedure, I've missed it, I'm really admitting it, and since it would open a dangerous precedent, I'm giving myself my first warning. The word has Minister Batic, and after that, don't let me have the right to myself. Here you go, Mr. Batic. Mr. Batic, we have two injuries to the Rules of Procedure, and if there are three injuries to the Rules of Procedure, then I'm taking a break by 3:30. [[After a break.]] Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, please let us determine if we have a quorum to continue the session. I find that we have a quorum for the work of the National Assembly. According to the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7927	Mr. President, you have so far had the custom to interrupt the session at the end of regular time, although there have been reports of a replica or a breach of the Rules of Procedure, and now you have begun to do so 15 minutes earlier. I've advertised a breach of the Rules of Procedure before the break, and now I'd like to point out that injury to you, to prevent it from happening in the future, and to get you out of your procedure and to get some sequencings out of it. Namely, I warned that you had previously injured Article 96 of attitude 1. The Rules of Procedure, by giving the MP of the same parliamentary group the right to replicate. According to the Rules of Procedure, you should have given an explanation about this, and if I am not satisfied with that explanation, you should have put it to the vote whether the Rules of Procedure has been injured. This is Article 95(4). However, you have taken over, Mr. President, the rights of the National Assembly. You're not hiding it anymore. First, you yourself estimated that you had violated the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and you cannot do it yourself, and then you gave yourself a warning measure. I don't think there's anything other than demagogy and excessive cynicism in that process of yours that should characterize one of the presidents of the National Assembly. Respect the procedure, Mr. President. First, if there is a suspicion that the Rules of Procedure have hurt you can only explain to me that you have not, and then I ask the Assembly to state that you are or have not, and then, ultimately, that you are pouring the ashes that you yourself claim to have hurt the Rules of Procedure, and that you are also giving yourself a measure of warning, it is unimaginable in parliamentary practice, and I was an MP under many dictatorial presidents of the National Assembly, which in the Federal Assembly. You're the first to use such a right in such an faceless way. You stand down the wind, you turn the sherpa with the ashes, and it's all far from you and there's nothing on you, Mr. President. You had no right, you hurt the Rules of Procedure again, and I want to see if you're going to find out again that you've hurt the Rules of Procedure. You had no right to determine whether he was hurt or not, and you have no right, President, to give yourself a measure. If the Assembly finds that you have injured the Rules of Procedure, leave the leadership of the Assembly to one of the vice presidents, and then he gives the measure to you who do not hold a session at that time. This is how everything looks like what we have already seen since this National Assembly was established, and this is a farce, an illusion of democracy, and there is really nothing from democracy, especially from democracy in proceedings against the Serbian Radical Party's MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7928	Now I really have a problem answering your objections because obviously we have some other rules of procedure in our hands. So, I don't know how you imagine the President is giving an explanation why the Rules of Procedure has not been broken, if the Rules of Procedure has been broken and I am now explaining to you why there was no breach of the Rules of Procedure when there was a breach of the Rules of Procedure. Only that you suggest that I lie then, but I still, unlike you, do not. Secondly, the Rules of Procedure have not been established that the president cannot give himself a warning measure. You may have some other Rules of Procedure, I don't know which member says it's been found to be. It says the president is giving a warning measure. It can't be a replica, because I answer to you in the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, what you didn't see, that I broke the Rules of Procedure, and I helped you because you're really trying to make a farce out of the Parliament, is that I gave you my word that you're talking about the Rules of Procedure, because it's taken from you. (Tomislav Nikolic: When did you take away my word? ) In the previous part of the session. Look at the notes. I also turned off the microphone, but let's not have a dialogue right now, look at the notes, and you'll see that your word has been taken from you. No replica, I'm giving you an answer. All you can ask is for the Assembly to come forward and you've just explained it yourself. We don't have a dialogue like this. According to the Rules of Procedure, Pal Shandor.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7929	Dear colleagues, I think it's very serious and important. Mr. Mircic injured Article 99, paragraphs 1 and 2. He says, "The People's Messengers are obliged to honor the dignity of the National Assembly by telling the truth. "The other attitude says, "People's MPs are obliged to address each other with respect," which was not exactly present when Mr Mircic spoke about Minister Batic. As for the truth, Mr Batic was relieved of his parliamentary mandate on June 30th. It's a record from that session on page 2. He says, according to Article 102. On a proposal from the Administrative Committee, the Law on Election MPs, the National Assembly found that it had suspended its mandate before the election of MPs, Dr Vladan Batic, elected from the Democratic Party of Serbia's election list in 9 Uzica, on the day of his departure from the political party on 6 May 1997. The same can be read in the stenographic notes from the Second Extraordinary Session of June 30th on page 1, that I do not now read from word to word and here is the letter from Mr Kostunica, which initiates the procedure under Article 131. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of May 15, 1997, which will say that this was done quickly. What's the problem? The problem is that Mr. Mircic is not telling the truth, and the bottom line is that we are all from this opposition, as he is and when we throw out, capable of joining together when it is necessary to team up against someone and leave our former personal and political animosities aside and when we think that the radicals and the socialists need to be shot down by common forces, then all of us, regardless of what we possibly agree with each other, are able to team up and please, there were no political agreements and other evil intentions. Mr Batic was at one point relieved of the parliamentary mandate, there were no political scurvy and the Assembly should be guided by the truth, and we are able to join each other, as diverse as we are, and that is our advantage when we think that a political option harms Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7930	Is there anyone else in the Rules of Procedure? By the Rules of Procedure or by the replica? Replica, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7931	The fact that you, Mr. President, judge so lightly, doesn't matter what it is, you can keep it within your coalition or your party, to address your coalition partners, and you have to respect us MPs from other political parties. Get used to it as soon as possible, it'll be better for you. What Pal Shandor-Pal Shandor was saying was what was carried out in the Assembly, and the background that Pal Shandor knows, because at the same time he solved his party colleague Andras Agosten yesterday, in the same way, with the same majority. And now he's coming out here and he's saying that someone's being offensive, that someone's lying. Here, there are DSS MPs, they are witnesses, some of them are witnesses, anyway, and the president who now holds the presidency knows about the story, what a struggle it was to appoint another MP from his ranks instead of Vladan Batic's DSS. That MP didn't live to sit on this bench. And you, Mr. Pal Shandor, are formerly known for your combinations, with the same majority as Vladan Batic. And don't call anyone if they're telling the truth or not. That truth is written by Dragan Tomic, and as I recall, you at least pleaded or so, Mr Pal, that Dragan Tomic is the one who tramples all the principles of democracy. We have made sure that he is trampling, because Vladan Batic was coming to the second row, on this side, and how he can do it, the ossion and such defiantly, Indian-looking Vojislav Kostunica and the other MPs in the DSS. Find the minutes, where is the other MP, who replaced the second MP Vladan Batic? Yes, the Socialists resolved him, she accepted most of the moment when it was right for them, because after that the elections were being called, and until then, as it was appropriate for you to get rid of Andras Agosten, that instead you make alliances with the Socialists, so the Socialists, like most, always acted. So, I don't see any reason. Secondly, Mr. President, I answered for the breach of the Rules of Procedure before you gave the word to Pal Shandor (almost I said Joseph Kasi). I apologize to my colleague Pal Shandor. I have sought the violation of the Rules of Procedure, because you have injured a member of the Rules of Procedure who says that with respect MPs address one another, or an MP to the Members of Parliament. You've made two mistakes, two violations of the Rules of Procedure. First, according to article 96, you have made a mistake in giving the MP of the Vojvodina Coalition a word, and secondly, you have gone beyond all that has happened.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7932	With respect, I'd like to inform you that your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7933	I'm advertising the breach of the Rules of Procedure and I've called before, because you said, if three MPs come forward, then you're breaking up, and you're breaking up early, 15 minutes early. The breach of the Rules of Procedure was in that article, where you forgot, and the minutes entered, you can look at the president, when the same MP came out on Thursday, on behalf of the DOS parliamentary group, told us all that DOS MPs would not participate in the discussion. I understand that within DOS, as a coalition, there are certain conflicts or, rather speaking, there are ambitions of individuals, but if that's not important for DOS, you had to, respecting the will of that MP, to prevent him from speaking from this pay phone. Because if it's not about the complete DOS coalition, then it's about him personally or his coalition. But you forgot it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7934	If you're going to finish, there's already four minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7935	No, it was a replica and now I'm continuing to explain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7936	You can't do that, Mr. Mircic. You can't give yourself a word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7937	What are you angry about, President? You're angry today. Don't be mad. Slowly, you must have patience. You gave your word that he would give us a lecture here, so that again, who knows which time to repeat his threats, that he would threaten us with the messengers. Who's being threatened by an MP from the Vojvodina Coalition? Who does he object to making discrimination? The main political definition of this coalition is to make discrimination against us, who live in Vojvodina. Well, you were the first to divide us in Vojvodina into natives and come, so you started to divide us into those who came from like, Bania, Kordun, Bosnia or Montenegro. Since you're not ashamed, do you have any cheeks? Obviously, your cheek is such that you can go to a nudist beach.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7938	Now, since you have again objected to the violation of the Rules of Procedure, I hope that at 1996 you ended up in this region, but I really must tell you, seeing as I see it, today I am your favorite subject, so I have to answer to you about breaking the Rules of Procedure - I appreciate the function of a MP and here I am equal to everyone, but what other respect, which is much more, evaluate the parliamentary function, I am before you, and you before me need a lot more to earn. Is there anyone in the Rules of Procedure? No, there isn't. ) There is a word from MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7939	Dear President, honourable MPs, since I've been waiting for more than two and a half hours for this pay phone to say a few words today that I won't be too long and I won't, in any way, repeat what has been heard many times over this agenda point. In fact, I belong to that group of people who agree that there is much more sobriety among us and between us politicians than political acuity, and with that I call on all of us here in this room to continue to behave. I must also say that since the introduction of a multi-party system into our political life, I have been intensively following events on the political scene, of course, regarding all the actors who appear on that political scene. In the past 10-12 years, I've also been following Mr. Vladan Batic's work, and I have to say, and I'm going to use a term that's been detached with us in Pirot, that the impressions of his work are such that they can be characterized as "small". It's a term for mixed, blended, positive and negative. In fact, Mr Batic had many elements of political acuity in his work, even before he was a minister, and I must say that I was pleasantly surprised by his actions during NATO aggression, which I really must respect. But after that, some strange things happened, and I was particularly distracted by the fact that in October 2000 in "The Voice of the Public" I could read the obituary, in which the deceased address her son, with the message "Mom, tell your dad we won." But in order to raise the level of political culture, I will not mention these cases further. I'm going to focus a little more on what happened after 24 September, which is about the government's constitution. Before 24 September, the opposition said it was not good for a party man to be at the head of the justice ministry. There were a lot of words about how the former justice minister boasted that he had the JUL party book, that it was very bad, that it was inadmissible, that it was evidence that the former government, more specifically, had too much influence over the instruments of government. Today, however, nobody mentions, at least I've never heard anyone mention it's bad that the minister of justice has a party book, just a reminder. Furthermore, since the formation of the government, Minister Batic has made numerous statements, in which he has been placed both in the capacity of the accused and in the capacity of the absolute judge, because many of his statements could have heard that there are war criminals in Serbia, so the minister has already ruled on our people, while ignoring the fact that no one has the right to declare anyone guilty, and especially not the first man of Serbian justice who, both as a lawyer and as a doctor of legal science, must know a clear legal maximum from Roman law that no one is guilty until proven otherwise, although there have been some developments in that field since 1996, particularly in the works of the authorities, in some local self-government. But that's the second time. I must say that since 24 September, it has been mentioned, rather than forming a new government, the Serbian judiciary in some way, the more accurate part of the Serbian judiciary, somehow returned to the Middle Ages. Namely, some institutes have introduced a medieval inquisition, where the most important thing in a criminal procedure is to extort the queen of evidence (the region of prodigy). It is a shame that at the beginning of the 21st century in Serbia, people are arrested without knowing what they are accused of, without being able to get acquainted with the grounds of the indictment. Of course, you all know I'm talking about former SRJ and the Republic of Serbia, the current SPS president and his arrest, therefore, of the arrest of Slobodan Milosevic. I must say, that fact is enough for us all to put our finger on the head and not let such a practice become common in our country, in our judiciary, in our right. I hope that this trend of introducing the Inquisition Institute will not continue. I don't expect any extension of these institutes and other criminal proceedings. Also, the relationship to The Hague tribunal is very strange. The first man of justice should not overlook the fact that our Constitution clearly and explicitly prohibits the extradition of our citizens, and I don't think that's what we've heard so far, on the contrary. Also, non-response, when a war criminal was present on the territory of the Republic of Serbia to whom he was convicted and there is a judicial verdict, a war criminal who has done a lot of evil to our country, Javier Solana, so I'm talking about him. No one reacted from either the Ministry of Justice or the Ministry of Justice, and that is one of the reasons why I am personally dissatisfied with the work of the minister and the ministry of justice and local self-government. Also, the attitude towards judicial authorities is at least discriminatory, and I must mention that there is general pressure on judges, and primarily a threat to re-election. Then, about the replacement of the President of the Courts, the non-payment of material costs, and which is not adequately established control over these courts. Judges are publicly declared incompetent in the paper, not enough for those who are not familiar with legal practice, so they announce all kinds of courses, and of course with the financial support of some foreign funds, most often mentioned in Soros. In my opinion, it's a very negative element that we have to seek to eliminate in our judiciary. So, funding the judiciary must go over the budget, and not through any foreign agencies or funds. I have to say that a lot of words could be heard about the impeccability of our courts, and in addition to that, I have to point out the fact that from 1994 to 2000, it's more than 4.5% of the municipal court's discretion in the manner prescribed by the Rules of Procedure, with over 9,000 cases, which normally can't be the reason for assessing this court's work with 16 judges, if I'm not mistaken, for the unsuspecting. In the end, I have to point out that there are two very specific cases for local self-government in the Pyrot County. The first case is tied to the White Palanca. In fact, in the White Palanca elections, the SPS-JUL coalition, the vast majority, and on 17 November 2000, the SO with great problems, with great pressures from DOS supporters, succeeded in constituting with the presence of 29 out of 41 council members. As such, she managed to organize the work of local self-government at one envious level over a period of six months. Over a period of six months, while some, despite positive opinions by the Ministry of Local Self-Government from earlier and despite the positive position of the Supreme Court of Serbia, did not consider that ignoring the fact that all local self-government institutions were doing a good job of seducing the coercion of SO Bela Palanka, under the reason that the assembly was not legally constitutive. I must say that this is a flagrant way of violating the electoral will of the people, the electoral will that was expressed in the elections on September 24th, and that the paradox would be even greater in one of the municipalities of the Pirot County, in Dimitrovgrad, not today, not after, if I'm not mistaken, 4-5 months have not been imposed. The time will come on its own, sir, no forced measures have been imposed and I would really like to confirm that, since Mr. Vukic has already said something about it, and I have spoken a lot in previous exhibitions. So no forced administration was introduced. The assembly is working without quorum, the president of the illegal assembly and the illegal assembly are making incidents in the last period. These incidents have spread to the VJ as well, so I think it has to be done in an adequate way so far and that a forced administration is introduced in Dimitrovgrad until re-election is called. (President: Time. I'm sorry, one more sentence, I have to say another reaction to what Mr. Jovanovic Ceda said. So all the leaders of opposition, or positional parties, have entered the temporary municipal council in the White Palanca, it is not true that none of them are party personalities. So they're all party personalities. I don't want to read because I'm in a time-stamp. Also, in the end, I only have to say for a short time, if temporary measures are imposed because of the criminal past of the council and in SO Pirot there are obviously some people who have a criminal past, and that can serve as a reason for introducing temporary measures. At the very end, if we are eager to get to Europe as soon as possible, we must respect the principles of that same Europe, and in that same Europe, ministers fall for much less things than we have heard in the last few days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7940	The word has the minister of justice, Mr Batic, then MP Zoran Ćirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7941	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, everything and everything we've been listening to these two days, and even my predecessor allowed himself the right to quote the obituary I gave my late mother. That was October 2nd last year and I'm proud to say, Mr. Radovanovic, I said in that obituary - Mom, let Dad know that we won. Their life wish was to welcome them to live in a free and democratic Serbia. Do you have a problem with that? Is that morality? Is that what MPs do? Is that an objection to the Minister of Justice? You don't know about elemental morality. I'll call on Cromwell - help them, God, they don't know what they're doing. When I refer to England, gentlemen, he was once in the English football team, in that famous, half-line footballer named not George Best, but Noise Stiles. Stiles Jackie Charton Moore. You know, this News Styles guy was known as a headlighter, as an uncompromising fighter, and he used to say, when the whole stadium on the opposing field whistled, I enjoy it, because I know I did my job well. That's how I feel today. It's like Novels Stiles. One more thing, I've listened to everything and everything, that DHSS municipal committees have collected all sorts of moral waste. No, gentlemen, I'm sorry, in many cities, they remind me of the small Academy of Science. I'm proud to say that. Yeah, Zorkafarm, Metritlastics, I have no idea what this is about. I've never been to "Metritlastica." At Zorka Farm, I was the only one with management from various parties, and I don't even know what party belongings are, a fantastic factory. What does that have to do with me? Furthermore, it was mentioned that I kept the DSS's mandate and that was being led by large polemics. That is not true, the Committee on Administrative and Immunity Issues has seized the mandate and that mandate has been assigned to Mrs Nadi Kostic, Mr Mircic. She was the DSS MP after taking over my mandate. Nada Kostic, but in 1996, May or June, when I was taken from the parliamentary term. Don't deceive parliament. That's true. The fact that not much was seen, then there were banned television broadcasts and there was no direct transmission of the Assembly, and then there was the ban, a month before that, I guess, April, May 1996. It probably didn't even get public then, and that's the reason. I was in the O.R., gentlemen, in a closed room when, I don't know, state security workers, a group of guys in shoes and sweatpants tried to execute a lynch on the then opposition SRS MPs. And you know it well, those who were there at the time know it well. I've been wrestling with them for half an hour together. I said nicely the first time I answered from this pay phone: Gentlemen, may the Lord God help those who lie. Here was Vladan Batic, Mr. Veselin Petrovic, Mr. Slobodan Gavrilovic and behind the camera, in the corner, hiding Raka Radovic. He didn't make it out before the O.R. was locked. That's true. Making things up is no big deal. It's a matter of personal morality. The day before yesterday, he said it was the basis of every policy. But to fake the truth in which you yourself participated, it's really scary. It's a matter of basic ethics and elemental morality, then. I have never been a lawyer for the Serbian Radical Party, which is also said here. I don't know of any judge who joined the Democratic Christian Party of Serbia. Orthodox, gentlemen, are Christians. Some people don't even know it, but they're trying to pin it on me. I don't know who. Next, the hekler in the fire isn't a hekler in my car. It's not the heckler of Vladan Batic, it's the heckler of a cop who was in another car. He didn't hear, didn't look out, stole it, found it and returned it to him. What do I have to do with it? Nothing. Furthermore, no glamorous lunch has been made, no Galeb hotel in Capco. I've heard all kinds of nonsense, really. I have not been the minister of justice since October 5th, but since the constitution of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. Practically, I've been the minister since early March. I've never met Javier Solan. I am a minister of justice who has no authority to arrest or judge. Arrest the police. Judge the court. I'm a wealthy man, I've got my grandfather's, my father's. Even though the communists confiscated everything from them, I inherited a lot of things, I've earned a lot, but I don't have a "Vid" bar on Divchibari, and that's also mentioned. There are democratic parties in Orthodox countries. She was the ruling party in Romania until recently. Konstantinescu, president of Romania, was a member of the Democratic Party of Romania. There is a party in Greece, too, in Macedonia. So, gentlemen, you need to read the political events a little bit. I'm not a member of any shareholder society, no board of directors, I don't know anyone in Cat. Dragan Lakicevic, mentioned as not a member, was not or will be a member of the Democratic Party of Serbia. Therefore, gentlemen, it is not worth lying about trying to fight something that is unfounded. I'll move on later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7942	The old question arises: Are we going to interpret this exposure as an exhibition or as a replica? If you're looking for a replica, then these are exhibits that we won't limit. The opposition must agree with the views. She can take a break whenever she wants.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7943	I appreciate the opportunity to go out for the pay phone again. I called for unsustainableness. (Vladan Batic: I replicated to him. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7944	Mr. Todorovic, I am asking the opposition parties to agree on the government's presentation. One opposition party claims it does not have the right to be exposed, the other seeks a replica of exposure. I have treated from the beginning in the same way, i.e. as the presentation of a member of the government and I give the minister a word to respond to a mountain of objections and arguments. There is as much time as the Rules of Procedure has been established. The Serbian Radical Party contests. He thinks I don't have the right to do that, that only a replica can do it. When you agree, I will respect it as an attitude. Here you go, replica to the exhibit, which can be now and later.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7945	In my presentation, I have indeed appealed to the calming of political passions and unsustainableness. I'm really sorry if you didn't take my exposure as such.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7946	You're right, Mr. Wolfie, according to the Rules of Procedure. We've already discussed these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7947	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it's a good thing I have a personal biographer and a man who's gonna be counting the warnings he's giving me for nothing. I'm calling for article 196. Otherwise, you can read all members of the government's trust and resignation issue as well as all the other MPs. Socialist Party MP Todorovic did not have the right to reply. Replica was Minister Batic. In this part, he only has the right to replication. This should not have lasted eight, ten and twelve minutes, but three minutes as for others when they have the right to replication. Article 196(2), these are the specific norms of the Rules of Procedure which explain one procedure in the sublegislative act and regulates it, it is said: "At the beginning of the session, the proposing representative has the right to explain the proposal to raise the issue of confidence to the Government, and the Prime Minister, or its member, has the right to answer. "It is the right of a government official when it comes to trust the government or any member of the government. All the rest of the time, Minister Batic has the right to go to a pay phone, but according to the law of replication. It's something that's completely normal and understandable. No one will take that right away from Minister Batic or anyone else. I ask you no longer to talk about the need for certain MPs to agree, to make arrangements for the opposition. I'm sorry that the Socialist Party MP of Serbia didn't read this, so he didn't know. But it's true what we're talking about. So please respect this by the end of the session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7948	You've already said there's nothing worse than hypocrisy. Nothing worse, yeah. It's true that this is in article 196. But today, the proposer's representative has asked for the right to report third. Where does that say in this article? Of course, it doesn't. But it says in Article 198, which is what we're working on here today. In that article, you know it as well as I do, it says what the rights of a member of the government are. Therefore, it cannot apply to Serbian Radicals to Article 196 and to the Government's representative to Article 198, or vice versa. It has to apply to everything equally.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7949	I have a replica, Mr. President. I'm right. You insulted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7950	I didn't say anything to you, nor did I mention you. I'm just giving an answer to your objection about the violation...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7951	Please, I have a replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7952	You can't get a replica on that. Not at all. I'm just saying it's nothing worse than hypocrisy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7953	You said it couldn't refer to Serbian Radical Party MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7954	If that's what the record says, I'll apologize. I just said there's nothing worse than hypocrisy. That applies to everything, including me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7955	You said about Tomislav Nikolic and me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7956	The word has been made by MP Zoran Ćirkovic. After him, MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7957	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I really didn't think it necessary to defend Mr. Batic. Mr. Batic is a kind of lawyer, even provincial. He's defended himself enough. Of course, I don't see any reason for special joy. I don't find it strange when a provincial lawyer and a law doctor becomes a minister of justice, but I'm surprised that others don't find it strange when failed students of law become vice presidents of the government. [[Laughter in the O.R.]] So you have no reason to be happy. I won't spare Mr. Batic, of course. As for Vuk Draskovic, I must say that DOS is the natural continuation of DEPOS. Once you shut down the epic part of the DEPOS, only DOS remains. DEPOS minus EP, it's DOS. I point that out one more time. My group of 11 DEPOS MPs debuted in terms of exclusion from parliament. We've been excluded from the federal parliament. After that, it became a favorite sporting discipline in both the Federal and the Republic's parliament. It is true that DEPOS MPs did not vote for exclusion at the time, except for one New Democracy MP, because then New Democracy entered, unfortunately, into a deal with representatives of the previous regime. That's true, I apologize to the members of the New Democracy, it's their party's biography. When it comes to the story we've been talking about the second day, Mr. Batic is taking note of the local self-government problem. I'm ready to accept the remarks. My expectations were that local self-government would be suspended in Serbia in all municipalities where the Democratic Opposition won a landslide victory in December's elections and the local self-government completely delegated. Local self-government had the legality of that moment, but they had no legitimacy. If, in certain areas, Serbia's Democratic opposition has triumphed in December's elections, and the local ruling SPS-JUL coalition, for example, has received about 13%, then it is indeed a matter of political justification for such local self-governments to function. Mr Batic, I ask you, as Minister of Justice, to initiate the idea that in all municipalities where the DOS elections were won by a triumphant victory, and the SPS-JUL coalition survived a convincing defeat. Secondly, Mr. Batic complains on October 5th. Ladies and gentlemen, October 5th is the most famous date of Serbian communist history, Communism fell on October 5th. I would like to say that in Serbia, we've buried communism, and we're going to raise the plate over that hummus, so you don't need to laminate over the lost power in parliament, but it's going to be your pay wall. There you can whine, moan and sue as much as you like. (President: Please listen to each other.) Don't be nervous, gentlemen of the opposition. We listen to you when you jump off the subject. Mr. Nikolic, let's control ourselves. You didn't recognize yourself... that all you did in law was pre-war training and Marxism. You're talented about these things and talk about them. He says you were carrying from the soul and that fly when you were building the Belgrade-Bar railroad. You should have stayed at the bar, at last. We object to the burning of the assembly. It is true that there was a physical attack on the Assembly and on July 1st 1993, following Dobrica Cosic's shift. Of course, representatives of the previous regime took part in his shift. The truth is, that's when the congregation was stoned. I told those who don't remember -- it's really sad that the Assembly was attacked. The assembly was built by our royal house of Karadjordjevic. But things have changed. The Federal Assembly building has been defiled twice. The first time the Germans came in, because there was a German command for the southeast. The second time, when the communists came in. The communists, however, were a longer-term occupier. Therefore, if the Assembly was attacked, it was attacked by those who defiled the memory of our dynasty, of our house, Karadjordjevic. By the way, Mr. Batic, since you're also a minister for local self-government and, of course, you're a member of the government, I would ask you, if we have a resolute tourism ministry, if we don't have one, we'll find something like that, to initiate an idea at the resolution ministry to expand tourism a little bit. We have hunting, fishing, rural, winter, summer tourism and so on. I'm in favour of opening prison tourism. So, in this prison tourism, we need to determine qualified tourist guides who will lead tours, that party comrades of the previous regime visit their prisoners. (President: I ask you not to make jokes and jokes from the Assembly. Please, let's get this debate a little serious. ) If Mr. Ivkovic is not behind the lock then, order him to open the tourist season. Mr. Batic, you won't, of course, be angry that the man you remind yourself of is an epic figure. I'll finish with the verse of Edmond Rostan, from that drama. He said, "I take off my hat, and my robe, lest it trip me, and the sword, let the battle begin, and my hand is intruding, and the cold one moves elegantly, and the one who knows from the joke, I will tell you in advance, and I will stab you at the end of the ballad. "
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7958	The word is Mr. Baralic, according to the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7959	Mr. President, in accordance with Article 95, I suggest that the provisions of Article 96(1) have been violated. Mr. Cirkovic, a political convert, said the following sentence - that some cave is three metres deep, in which all communists will be buried. Mr. Cirkovicu, in Priboj municipality, the president of the municipality's Assembly is on the Socialist Party of Serbia list, your own brother. Will he meet in that pit, black son? Furthermore, Mr. Cirkovic here said things that make a president, such as yourself, need to give a warning. So, please, let the Assembly make a statement about the violation of Article 96(1).
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7960	I don't have an answer. I'm putting on a plea. For 47 MPs, against 84, abstentioned 15, did not vote 17, a total of 163. I find that the National Assembly has not accepted your objection. The word has Mr. Nikolic, a replica, then, the third call, Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7961	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm really not good either. I have to admit that. But at least I'm not crazy and at least I'm not ashamed of what I've been doing in my life, Mr. Cirkovic. I'm not particularly ashamed that as a young boy, without a father and a mother, I went to the track to work. In particular, I am not ashamed of what I did on the Belgrade-Bar track, from Priboj to behind Prepolje. When you mention it to me, then you touch me in one of the most beautiful parts of my life, in the saddest, hardest, but most beautiful. I didn't wear a flyer, but after six months I became the head of the construction site and I can tell you which tunnels, but you don't know them, but from the dam in Potpeca, upriver along the Lim four tunnels I ran, even that fifth tunnel that's very long - 1,060 meters. I'm not ashamed of that part of my life. You are not ashamed of what you say about the congregation being a symbol of those who drove the monarchy out of the country. As if now it were to be said to fall into the National Assembly -- I don't like what radicals do in the National Assembly and the National Assembly of Serbia needs to be set on fire. The chosen messengers sit in the congregation, whether you like them or not, whether you like him or not. Good or bad. When we talked to Vuk Draskovic, as all this happened to him, he pointed to some of you and he said - there were too many lunatics around me, I couldn't take that pressure anymore. It is obvious that this is still happening today in this composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If I had said what you said here, about the people of Serbia, about the part of the people you don't love, about the part of the MPs you don't love, I would have been driven to this door, I wouldn't have come out, but there would have been a break. When you say that, then the president just doesn't understand you, so he says, at least explain what you're trying to say. This is the relationship I warn you about, which the president has with you, the MPs of the majority and us, the MPs of the minority in this assembly. If I'd known this was going to be defended by Prime Minister Vladan Batic, I wouldn't have said anything against him at all. If only I knew you'd come out to defend him, he wouldn't need a bigger attack. That's what you just said about Vladan Batic and this profile you painted in front of Serbian citizens, as a profile of a man defending Vladan Batic, is quite enough for Vladan Batic to no longer be justice minister. Did you find one smart man here to defend him as heartily as you did?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7962	Replica, please. Mr. Baralic, who reported to the Rules of Procedure, told other stories, but that's it. You asked, look.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7963	I really didn't want to provoke the anger of the representatives of the previous regime. First, around Mr. Baralic from Cack. My dear sir, my brother is not my brother for making him Communism, but because he was born by our common parents in the same love as me. Furthermore, I did not say that the communists should be put in that hole, I said that Communism should be placed in that hole as one faulty idea, which cost Serbia the land of a crucible. There are indeed people who have accepted, unfortunately, a communist idea, although it did not belong to it. Now let me tell you, sir, you are the heir to the communists and that ideological... (Rajko Baralić, from the place: I am a communist, but I am not an heir. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7964	You're also in the SPS... Communism, what's wrong with you? Take it easy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7965	Why are you doing this, ideologically? You just changed your name, you said we weren't going to be the Union of Communists of Serbia, we were going to be the SPS. Your previous president of the Union of Communists of Serbia has become the president of your party. Then, however, you integrated the SSRN, and you entered the SSRN without a question. We were all members of the SSRN, no one asked us about it. And that, by the act of birth, you recorded us, why did you do it? Just to get the property. I ask, by the way, what is the fate of the law that has been passed to return the property of the Communist Union to the people at their disposal. You usurped her. That's why you're the ideological heir and the legal heir, and the things I've brought out, you won't be property for the reason that you took away what's plight and people's distress. Now, Mr. Nikolic... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: Sorry, you have no right. Then I'll get out. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7966	You have no right to replicate Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7967	You're not going out, no, you're not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7968	Don't take the lead, please, go to the coffee shop and discuss it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7969	I can't afford to compromise myself as an old man.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7970	Talk in general, you won't notice it's that replica. Talk in general, it doesn't have to go directly, we'll make...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7971	You said the Wolf barely got rid of some lunatics. I remind you that before I joined him, Draskovic was your president, Mr. Seselj. I mean, then when he left him and joined your People's Radical Party from Kragujevac, it was the same lunatic only at another address. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Injury of the Rules of Procedure. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7972	They're right, your word was taken from you. Give it to someone... (Tomislav Nikolic, from the place: I will not give to anyone.) Here, can Mr. Wolfie, a breach of the Rules of Procedure or... Did you hear that? Come on, we've been kidding all day.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7973	We're not joking, Mr. President, we're trying in a serious way to talk, but obviously it's not possible, but the most interesting thing without a joke, but with all this reality, was your earlier reaction when you, knowing that the gentleman has no right to the replica of Tomislav Nikolic because he challenged him, tried to teach him how to speak, to refer to Mr. Nikolic, and that Mr. Nikolic and none of the other radicals have the right to speak. It was a real picture and opportunity of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and everything that was happening in it. So far, it seems to me to me that this is your most escalating example and the best example by which everyone can see what's really going on in this high house. I hope that soon Mr. Ivkovic will sit down after much longer thinking, I must say that it is not true about Vuk Draskovic and that you have not studied very well...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7974	It's a replica again now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7975	I picked up the line and answered and all the time I had the right to the replica, because he was saying...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7976	Then why were you talking about the Rules of Procedure? You called in the Rules of Procedure instead of Mr. Nikolic?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7977	No, I answered the line for the SRS mentioned.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7978	All right, all you have to do is make a statement.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7979	I pleaded immediately, and I said when I came that was for replication. Mr. Seselj was in good political relations with Vuk Draskovic at the end of the 1980s, when Vuk Draskovic was a prominent Serbian nationalist. When he said that Serbian countries are where Serbian graves are, and above all, thinking, if I could have some attention, it's good to see, there will be a transition from communists to Chetniks, it's not a big deal. As for Mr. Cirkovic, I would only tell him that at the time every Serb could support what Mr. Draskovic said. It was the end of the '80s to the 1990s, but everything he did afterwards, I'm not talking about this last period, it was the same thing and he stood up for the same thing the DOS stands for. The reason for your divorce was a personal nature or something like that, but there is no ideological difference, nor did we notice it, and that is the essential thing, except that it is obviously less evil than what the DOS represents and it seems to me, today and all of Serbia's citizens completely clear. But don't talk about a Serbian radical stranger, talk about people you don't know about and people you're not up to your knees, and there are people you talk about a lot, and I know you, and I know them. Whether I am objective or not will the citizens of Serbia judge it is best to think about comparing yourself with Professor Seselj at all, so that's funny. To think that you're comparing, let alone insulting someone like that, and it is really funny. I call on you only, Mr. President, so you don't turn this debate into something that has nothing to do with the debate, or what's on the agenda, to listen to what the ruling majority MPs say. It is good to say that if we look at our global political or partyal, scrawny interest, but it is not good because the people of Serbia see all the falseness, what political nebulisms are able to pronounce, but it is not good because of the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, because these words, what is said, do not like the National Assembly, do not like the MP. I am sure that as soon as the extraordinary parliamentary elections are held, I hope that it will be by the end of this year, it will be a completely different composition of this National Assembly, it will not be a majority, so you will be able to see many others in this National Assembly, who will speak more incomparably and wisely.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7980	Third announcement, Mr. Ivkovic, followed by MP Ljubomir Kragovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7981	Dear Mr. Chairman, MP Ivkovic would have the right to reply, but that right will not benefit because no other member of the Socialist Party of Serbia, an MP in this assembly, will come out for a pay phone at this point, as the speaker is sufficiently embarrassed for today. I think the speech of hate and malice as the best reflection of total impotence per each parameter of comparison has caused a likely dissatisfaction of all citizens who have had an accident to watch television broadcasts in the last half hour. It is pathetic for Serbian citizens to experience and recognize the speech shown here, by the malice seen in the eyes by who represents the citizens of Serbia. We will no longer speak in this agenda, but we must say, thanks to precisely such performances, I can easily disabling a gentleman who made me entitled to a replica, but I won't, I won't give him that pleasure. I even give him a chance to replicate to me. Dear Mr. Cirkovic, thanks to you, your performances, performances similar to you over the last two to three weeks in Svrlig, Odžac, Cicevic, Šapac, Kursumlija, Vranja and Saturday in Nis, in the re-election of councils in municipalities, perhaps for you the surprise was won by the Socialists. We were second in Vranjska Banja and Kovin twice, but DOS was behind us. However, I must also tell you this: Mr. Vuk Draskovic has been in all of these places where we have won was second and therefore, think carefully about how Serbian citizens recognize people at the pay phone, who know nothing more than to talk about the last 10 years, to get together with the communist caves, but also for the communists, because without communism, there are no communists. Otherwise, there are no communists in this room to make a deal. This is where the Socialists sit. Many of them first entered a party when they entered the Socialist Party of Serbia, and I must tell you that the whole front row here that sits with Banet Ivkovic was on the University Committee of the Communists, by Mr. Korac, and beyond. Just so we understand each other, and I recognize many of you here in communist activities. No, Alexander Wolf, I'm sorry, you're not. Therefore, the request made for this speaker, to annul the elections, shows exactly how the DOS regime works and why Mr Batic, he is not guilty because he allowed his ministry, not himself, as justice minister, to do so, is some respected Mr Markovic. Seventeen forced administrations in 100 days have been introduced, and only where the DOS is not in power. Even such misery is allowed where 35 Socialist Party of Serbia's council members are, and only four DOS officials are introduced. It's that shame and shame for democracy, and I don't know why the OSCE isn't coming here right now to get a haircut, so we have to call him to check out what's going on in this democracy, when 17 municipalities have had a forced administration. Mr. Cirkovic, these results, especially the last result in Nis, show how much the opinion does not have on December 23rd under the duress of the media link and 1,200,000 frightened people with today's condition, when strength is restored by the citizens' recognition of people like you. As for Mr. Batic, let me make a summary and finish, even though I have six minutes left. Dear Mr. Batic, who now looks at me and doesn't sit here, we resent you for not being a minister of justice and local self-government getting up publicly to explain to your government colleagues that they can't arrest, that they can't investigate through newspapers, they can't press charges, they can't judge or judge before anyone finishes any proceedings, not even the MUP. We resent what you don't protect the employees of the judiciary, which you don't tell them -- you in Serbia's justice system, what's being talked about appeals, the cassation courts, has nothing to do with you. The fact that you're not going to work in law enforcement for four years has nothing to do with you. I, as Minister of Justice, guarantee that you will all have a working relationship and that you will be able to work, because I want you to be independent. When he says that, it's a vote for him. Since he did not say so, we are voting against Mr Batic, because he did not warn his government counterparts not to arrest them through newspapers and did not guarantee people in Serbia's judicial system the security of employment and guaranteed peace in the work of the prosecutor's office and the judiciary. This gives us the right to be convinced that a forced administration of the country's judicial system is in place.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7982	Right on line, MP Mr. Cirkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7983	Mr. Ivkovic really is a very successful man. That's what's going on with him. However, behind this apparent courtesy lies a great talent for manipulation. He said here the other day, and it was a drum and he stayed alive as DOS MPs voted against religion on the Education Committee, and his SPS MPs voted in favour of religious science. After that, the matter was simply clarified in the minutes and it was found to be disinformation. He is now telling us that they have won, even among other things, and in Vranjska Banja, or in which place, I don't know. To remind him, Vrnjačka Banja was won by New Serbia's councilman, indeed, DOS went to three columns, but one DOS column won. And remember, gentlemen, there will be no DOS in the future elections, but only DOS will win, and you will be facing hungry long years of opposition. So get ready, find a conditioning coach. I've been in the opposition for 30 years. I'll find you a man worth it. Otherwise, in 1991, I really initiated the formation of the club "K", the Anti-Communist Parliament Club. The idea remains current. I represent that reactionary Serbia you strangled, but that Serbia rose on October 5th and won. Long live October 5th [[Employer Alexander Vukic is looking for a replica.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7984	You have no right to replicate. You don't even have Mr. Ivkovic, you don't, you're not called. I listened carefully, you have no right to a replica. Mr. Wolfie, you have no right to a replica. I am not giving you the right to a replica based on Article 96(3). Mr Ljubomir Kragovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7985	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I move to the agenda, I would like to say that Mr. Aleksandar Vukic had the right to reply, because Ivkovic mentioned his name and last name himself and he should have been entitled to the replica. However, this is by who knows which way the chairman's relationship with the SRS is already on the verge of this tolerance. In March, the SRS parliamentary group submitted a motion for a vote on the mistrust of Justice and Local Self-Government Minister, Mr Vladan Batic. Mr Tomislav Nikolic cited countless examples in one exhaustive presentation, and he argued all these examples, which are enough today to vote against Mr Batic. What we've heard I don't want to say again, but I want to say what Mr. Batic has repeatedly exhibited here, and that's because he says he doesn't like to lie, because he believes in God, and he quotes for some definition of lies all the time. He collects them, and by nature, man does what he loves, and Mr Batić only collects definitions of lies, because he probably loves lying the most.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7986	Mr Kragovic, I give you a notice on the basis of article 101 after you have spoken offensively.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7987	Oh, thank you. And the fact that he believes in God and is not only sufficient for the media and magazines, but also for balloons, is little and no doubt that such a man who uses his faith in marketing, for propaganda purposes, can even say that he is a believer. All the examples mentioned here, about the arrogant, undivided and insolent behavior in certain factories, such as Galenika, Zastava, Majdanpek, Bor, TV "Palma", suggest that (will you warn Mr. Minister not to throw here, as a streetman, but to sit and listen to what is bothering me, it bothers me that he is a minister and that he is so limited to crime). I understand this hack into the Galenika factory's premises as one obligation, since he's Mr. Panic's lawyer, and probably for a fat compensation he couldn't solve the problem. He thought -- now he's coming to power and he's going to come in with a couple of hackers and a couple of automatic rifles and he's going to meet his friend. But he can't. And your colleagues themselves say that you are one province attorney, one of the province's lawyers who failed to win any dispute. However, you will try all of this through the current function to accomplish, but you will not succeed. Otherwise, Mr. Minister is known as the initiator, as the organizer of other crisis headquarters and as a traffic light that gives yellow, green or red lights where they can be formed and who will participate in those crisis headquarters. That is what is a disgrace to the state of Serbia and the fact itself would be evidence enough to vote today against Mr. Minister. What is still current is the untapped statements in the public ballots and the interpretation of what the Serbs are most plagued by, and this is The Hague, what Mr Simic, Mr Stakic, was delivered to The Hague in a shameful way that is not fitting to a Serbian state. And if this trend continues like this, then neither will Serbia nor the Serbian people. He says he didn't see the hecler, he didn't hold it in his hand, he doesn't know what phantoms are, what socks are, what crime, and that can only convince himself, and I'm convinced he can't convince any citizen in this state of Serbia. As Minister for Local Self-Government, it introduces forced administrations, in 17 municipalities, where, normally, the government has not won DOS. Why introduces - introduces from a simple principle, because through the introduction of a temporary administration, he's actually trying to form some call municipal boards of DHSS. It's just an illusion and a mask. Of such municipal committees, be assured, there will be nothing, and this next election will certainly show. The minister, although well aware of the division of power in legislative, executive and judicial matters, does not accept and behave as one of the most powerful people in the country, where the executive power is outside the law. We have an example that he even threatened the president of the Assembly to lift this transmission, because he probably became involved in the fact that when he was expelled from the Democratic Party of Serbia, there was no transmission and there was no media promotion of that release. He also thought now by abolishing the transmission to prevent MPs from giving the people all those irregularities that occur under the authority of Mr Batic. Mr. Minister, you're throwing it all the time, you're talking more than I'm saying. It's so inconspicuous, and the chairman can't hear at all, either he's imagining himself or he's not in the O.R. right now. Furthermore, in his address to this parliament, he has repeatedly addressed Hekerup, as he has filed some criminal charges against Demacy, against Thaci, against Ceku, against Hajrediri. It's all bullshit. Just to remind Mr. Minister that he is a coalition partner, that he is in the government of Adem Thaci, that he is in the government of Bernard Kushner and that he is in the government of Hans Hekerup, with his member, vice president of the DHSS. It's another cynicism, he's sending applications with those he's working with, probably dreaming about a day, whether he'll ever come into that position, send criminal charges and current allies to this DOS government. Then, when he talks about some kind of origin and names, if there is a last name in the Serbian people, if there is anyone in the Croatian people, I don't know, but I know there are many Batics in Kosovo. There are probably so many of them that everyone is grateful to you because you've advocated the amnesty of Cypriot terrorists and separatists. A recent announcement by Mr. Prime Minister that he will reshuffle the government of the Republic of Serbia in September and that one place will be given to Shiptar, and one place to Muslims, I think that the place intended for Shipara, the post of vice president or minister without portfolio, will be given to Mr. Vladan Batic. Then, in his statement, he said he had written criminal charges against NATO aggressors -- it's only one common shame, to appear against it. We are witnessing that Mr. Solana was in this space and there was a chance that according to the law that Solana was sentenced to be arrested, not on the red carpet here in Serbia. All of these lists, both mine and my previous fellow MPs, sufficiently point to everything that is bad in the work of Minister Batic, and I urge all MPs today to declare their mistrust with such a minister and free Serbia from this evil and this terror. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7988	The word has the minister of justice, then the MP Milan Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7989	Since some UNMIK leaders have been mentioned, here is an open letter to Bernard Kouchner, head of a civilian mission in Kosovo: "Dear Mr. Kouchner, we met at Easter in Gracanica and spoke in the monastery port. You seemed optimistic and assured that things were moving better with regard to Resolution 1244. Stopping the terror of Cypriot separatists, security of physical and legal security, rebuilding ruined houses, returning to exiled Serbs and creating a normal life atmosphere. It was at Easter in the Gracanica monastery, where the liturgies of this greatest Christian holiday had been held for seven centuries. We always remember our dead ancestors on Easter Day. In Gracanica, Serbians are mourned and living at Easter this year. There is no limit between life and death for them anymore in Kosovo. At the evening service of Episcopalist Artemia, Atanasia, a couple of priests, the sisterhood of the monastery, a dozen Serbs there, several members of the DHSS from Belgrade, one Russian and two Greek soldiers, and that's all. There's a bunch of KFOR armed soldiers around the monastery, and besides icons, their weapons. Defiled saints, insult history, stop centuries. Mr. Kouchner, that's how it was at Easter in Gracanica. I believed there was hope that things would get better after all. I believed that the UN and KFOR couldn't be some mother and some stepmother. Believed that the victims of Bishop Artemis, Sava Janjic and others, which the regime has crucified on the pillar of shame, would not be in vain. I'm afraid I've been wrong. Every day, Kosovo, once a cradle, becomes a tomb for one of the remaining Serbs. Every day new murders, new atrocities, new terror against Serbs. They're being killed like savages. Serbs in the Serbian country. It's not worth it, Mr. Kouchner, to express surprise and dismay, and it's not worth expressing condolences and writing statements. The parents of the murdered children, the relatives of the kidnapped, the families of the burning houses have nothing to do with it. Instead of raising your voice, being heard to New York and Moscow, to Paris, London and Brussels, instead of the entire civilized world standing in the protection of that unfortunate people, you're showing concern, and Serbs are still killing today, aren't you? If you cannot do so, or if you are powerless, consider leaving your post. The resignation is a moral act. So, by sticking to basic ethics, show at least when you leave that you sincerely wanted what you promised when you came. Take a look at the fresh harms, black banners and say - this is a crime, because as the great Serbian writer Borislav Pekic said - personal morality is the basis of every general policy. Show him, Mr. Kouchner. Once upon a time, one of your countrymen, Franz d(Epere, was called the Serbian mother's sacrifice, humanity and love. Don't let one Frenchman be declared Serbian after 80 years for the guilt of others. In this way, show respect for yourself and your role and more respect for the people, who had Gracanica, Decana, Pećko Patriarchy over 700 years ago. That people deserve it. Make the whole world understand." So much for patriotism. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I've been thinking about real and not staged reasons for not voting. I figured out what the problem was. Not the minister of justice's problem, not Vladan Batic's problem, the problem is justice and truth. It's something that hasn't been in this country in decades. It's something that bothers people to get used to crime, to hypocrisis, to nepotism, to corruption, to powerlessness, to taking the law into their own hands, to privileges, to monopolies, to false stories of patriotism and traitors, to personal wealth, to immorality of every kind. It hurts and that's the problem with the Justice Department, because it's gone. So, ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to be the first justice minister in free and democratic Serbia. As the image of the goddess Justicia writes, there will be justice in Serbia, even if the world fails. We've outlined several basic priorities in the Ministry that in themselves were evidence of unprecedented crime. It'll be revealed soon enough. They question those who are in charge, how much crime was in the Justice Department itself. So where people were called to protect justice, they committed unprecedented crime. Tom needs to get in the way. We have identified several priorities, to pass valid laws, harmonised with European Union regulations, the law on judges and courts, the public prosecutor's law, the law on law on law enforcement, the new criminal law, the new law on local self-government. It is at one of the next sessions of the republic's parliament that some of these laws will be on the agenda of this high house. The second priority drawn by the Justice Ministry is personnel selection, human recovery. Not to lose a job, no one in this three-and-a-half month has lost their job, no judges, no president of the court, no public prosecutor. Therefore, do not worry about the fate of the people involved in judicial functions. Those who have sinned against legal and moral norms of course must leave. I remind you that several of the personnel changes that have been made, which is a motion for resolution and a proposal for an appointment, have been given by the Justice Committee, not by the Minister of Justice. Although the minister of justice had the right under the law to make such proposals. The motion for resolution and selection of new prosecutors has been made by the current V.D. a republican public prosecutor who is from the old establishment and has no new republican public prosecutor, but was done by a public prosecutor from the previous regime. So it has nothing to do with the minister of justice. Next, what's a priority, it's raising the status of the judiciary. We talked about the conditions in which judges do their job. Poor and pathetic, miserable and nothing. There was a conference under the auspices of the OSCE today. By September, a $10m donation under the auspices of the OSCE for judicial reform will be provided, above all, to increase the salaries of judicial employees, as these salaries are indeed miserable. They're really low-level, but that's the legacy of the past. We're going to raise that status level of the judicial officials. Then local self-government was mentioned here. Gentlemen, wherever the municipal council was elected there were legal reasons for that. There is a strict application of the existing law on local self-government everywhere. There was absolutely no mistake. There's been a couple of incident situations. It was trying, even here, in the Assembly, to reach some sort of deal for Kladov and Lebanese. But the thing escalated to the point that it simply threatened the greater evil, so a forced administration was formed, i.e. a municipal council was elected. What is a priority, it is an increase in the efficiency of the judiciary and it is absolutely certain that we will go this way with an increase in the status level of the judiciary. So these are the priorities of the justice ministry in the new government. I repeat, this campaign won't hesitate me at all, because it's a clear motive for which it was launched. As the apostle Paul said, do not let evil defeat you, but conquer evil, good.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7990	He has the word National MP Milan Markovic. After him, MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7991	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin to talk about the motion to vote on the confidence of Justice Minister Mr Batic, I must say that, just now, in the debate, fellow lawyers working in the interior are mentioned. They're mentioned as provincial lawyers, which is because they work in the province, which caused laughter in this room. I'd like to say that no matter where the lawyer lives or where he works, in Belgrade or in the interior, he is the bearer of a lofty, honorable function. I think this home should be aware of that fact. On many occasions, Mr Batic's lawyer and professionalism, as a lawyer, has been mentioned here. Normally, he doesn't want to talk about it. He won't talk about himself and what kind of lawyer he is. I don't think that in that sense he needs something too much to defend. But I must say that I had the opportunity to meet Mr Batic at the Palace of Justice in Belgrade on several occasions, that he and I were sitting on opposite sides. I think Mr Batic is an honorary member of our profession. By respecting the legitimate and democratic right of our MPs to question the minister's responsibility, I would like to make a comment and make a statement on the proposal of distinguished Serbian Radical Party counterparts to vote against Mr Vladan Batic. Before that, of course, I would like to express my satisfaction that this Parliament is discussing a matter of trust with one of the Ministers of the Republic Government. It seems to me that the previous parliament and previous parliament meetings did not -- if I am not mistaken -- have had that opportunity and have not been talked about the ministers in this way. Moreover, this will be our regular practice. I think it's something that's good and that's on the way to democratisation of our society. I need to speak my mind right now. I'm not voting for this proposal. I believe it does not contain valid facts and evidence that in one serious way like this home, we would establish and, possibly, establish, if any, the responsibility of Prime Minister Vladan Batic. I will explain this attitude through several characteristic parts of this proposal. Among other things, this proposal contains a series of flat-rate and untapped evaluations which, as such, may be able to exist in political life and it is not a terrible thing to do in the myths, in the political stands, if they do not withdraw criminal responsibility, but are not a good basis for a serious debate and assessment of the work of the minister of justice. I will quote -- when performing the ministerial post, he calls for his justice, which is marked by a revolutionary five-octobar bulldozer -- justice. For example, according to Batić, the courts are unnecessary. What would they serve besides Minister Batic? Or lie is his style of political action, and lies go so far that he starts to believe. Or, Vladan Batic pretends he doesn't know that Bill Clinton is no longer president of the United States. Only for Vladan Batic and after Bill Clinton - Bill Clinton. It's just not an argument. It's really not what we can, as a parliament, set up some discussion and determine the responsibility of our minister. They're, first of all, passwords. Surely, these parts of the proposal can't make me vote for mistrust, Minister Batic. Moreover, this proposal, unfortunately, contains very serious accusations that must not be brought out publicly without real evidence for them. They're libels, then. Unfortunately, if they were true, it would be not only a matter of trust to Mr Batic, but also a question of what kind of state we live in. I quote -- the public so far has not been familiar with the harsh fact that Minister Vladan Batic is an organiser, a financier and a top-ranking gang of criminals tasked with catching Yugoslav citizens and handing over to The Hague tribunal. When he cannot under the law or allegedly voluntarily, Minister Vladan Batic activates his own organised gangs of criminals. He's paid to do the dirtiest job. Nothing can stop him from doing that, because he's probably also blackmailed if he doesn't do the job he's already paid for. I think that we, the MPs, and all the people who have the opportunity, even the privilege of public speaking, must refrain from this kind of practice and this kind of assessment, I would say defamation. What I've read refers to the Minister of our State. We can't talk about the Secretary of State like this. This raises the seriousness of our country. So for this, we need to present very, very serious evidence, regardless of whether it's pronounced here, regardless of what's being protected by immunity here, or expressed at some public gathering. The charge is too serious and is not a valid basis for us to discuss the minister of justice's responsibility. Also, it can't inspire me to vote for the mistrust of the minister of justice, Mr. Batic. This proposal, of course, contains one part that is logically due to the different political approach of the promoter and the DOS on relations towards the international community. That's a lot to say. It was said by citizens in the elections as well. I will briefly say what I think, from which, normally, I am also making my point of view of this part of the charge against Mr Batic. So, the international community, the United Nations, The Hague tribunal, Carla del Ponte, rules in the international community, that's reality. A court of law doesn't matter here. Personally, I don't like to see Carla del Ponte on TV or anywhere else. But simply, as responsible people, these personal relationships, our personal emotional attitude toward all of this must be put aside and we must act responsibly. Co-operation with the international community is necessary. Any other approach, any other option to ignore these facts, and the reality in which we live today and here, is fatal to our people. It seems to me that the lack of understanding of international relations, international policies, misjudges, empty heroism, when it produced what produced, was declared patriotism, and I don't think it was patriotism, but the concealment of what was missed by politics. We have to act very responsible today. I think the government of the Republic of Serbia and the DOS currently have a very responsible approach to this. That is why all the arguments raised here as a criticism of Mr Batic's work in relation to international organisations, compared to The Hague, have not been established for me and therefore cannot vote for it, i.e. Mr Batic's replacement. Furthermore, certain findings in this proposal are indeed not true. I will quote this: "Vladan Batic, as minister of justice and local self-government, contrary to the Constitution and the laws, held a press conference informing the public that he was arrested by the Head of State Security Radomir Markovic. This arrest was required by the public to inform the interior or public prosecutor's representative, starting with legal powers," and so on. Gentlemen, this is not true. This charge is automatically being dropped, and it can't be the basis for me to vote for Mr. Batic's mistrust. Moreover, this news of the arrest of the head of security should be announced by the Prime Minister himself. In my opinion, there's nothing controversial about it. There's no violation of the law. In the end, which made me very sad, this proposal is filled with serious insults. I think it's extremely inappropriate. It insults this home, insults all of us. We appeal here to each other for restraint. I'll quote which insults I mean. There's a lot of them. I'm gonna mention the ones that are really the worst. The sentence begins with the words: "They have educated especially large for this administrative dispute consisting of Milena Savatic and Olga Đuricic, as judges who are publicly declared members of the DOS, as well as Aleksandar Doncic, as president of the council that is an abomination." Gentlemen, it's the Supreme Court judge. It's written here for him that he's a piece of shit. Next: "... Under the direct orders of Vladan Batic, president of Belgrade's First Municipal Court, Vojkan Simic, who has been known for years as a corrupting man. "So, in this proposal, which we here need to seriously discuss and talk about the responsibility of the Republic's minister, one Supreme Court judge is said to be a misdemeanor, for one of the presidents of the court to be bribed. Such words have very serious consequences in public and such accusations, without evidence, are extremely irresponsible. I'm just wondering if those are the arguments. Does anyone really think that this is the way we need to determine the responsibility of any state official? Of course, this time it's the minister. It's the Minister of our country, the Republic of Serbia. Is this a contribution to the construction and tolerance that we all stand for? Finally, I believe that this proposal, not only does it not contain arguments, facts and evidence which support these facts in favour of determining the responsibility of Minister Vladan Batic, but it is also inappropriate and unworthy of this home and the topic we are talking about in many of its parts. I hope that in the future, when determining the responsibility of any member of the government, we will discuss it in a concise manner and on the basis of accurate data from the domain of the competent ministry (if you have noticed who has carefully read no data here), culturally, with mutual respect and respect for the institutions of this country, which is above all important, and respect, in the end, for all of us and our people. Thank you. (Alexander Vukic, from the place: Replica. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7992	You're not mentioned, you're not mentioned, you're not mentioned, you're not mentioned, you're (Alexander Vukic, from the city: The subject is the promoter. ) What we will discuss all day, rather than a proposal from the promoter. That's not the reason for the replica. All MPs are talking to the paper where the proposal is. That's what we've been doing for two days. When the proposal is mentioned, there can be no replica. You're right, according to my record, to an entire reporting. You can answer it the third time. The word has been given by MP Veroljub Arsic, followed by Gvosden Jovanovic, the last registered speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7993	Ladies and gentlemen, as a member of the Serbian Radical Party, I personally believe that Mr Batic is no place in the government of the Republic of Serbia. It is not a place, because it does not meet those moral criteria and values that a minister should have. At the very least, he can be said to be two-faced. He's two-faced because now he's here, 10-15-20 minutes ago, telling this pay phone that he doesn't even have the right to arrest anyone, order anyone, that he can't lock anyone up. Just a few weeks ago, he threatened all of us from the opposition, including the SRS, to get us comfortable cells all over the prisons, and that we could go there right now and see what those cells were like. So, right now, not wait for his courts to sentence us to prison. The fact that he's two-faced and cynical, can be seen from his exposure when, justifying himself here, he has also written a criminal report against the leader of NATO aggression against the SRJ. That's what Mr. Batic said about this pay phone and staying alive. He remains alive because this same Solana, who he wrote that criminal report against, came to Belgrade. It's a classic example of a criminal always returning to the scene of a crime. Mr Batic, instead of arresting him, because it is certain that he can order his courts to respect the decisions and judgments they have made, justifying himself now that he has not even met him, however, it cannot be justified why in our Belgrade, in our Serbia, a real war criminal, a real mass murderer, has spread the red carpet to wait for him. The same man is sentenced to the verdicts of courts under the direct management of Mr Batic to 20 years in prison. Now Mr Batic argues that these verdicts, and perhaps the verdict that was initiated on his criminal record, are ridiculous, that the whole procedure is ridiculous, that the verdicts are ridiculous. I don't know if he's funny about "Freedom" from Chačka. Is it funny that it was done with the Varadin Bridge, with the Bridge of Liberty, with the Iron Bridge, with the bridge in the Gredella ravine, if it was funny for him after the bombing, was it funny for him that NATO was throwing cluster bombs at Nisa, on civilians? I don't. Since Mr Batic is the minister of justice and local self-government, terrorists and real war criminals have been released from prison on various grounds. The crimes were committed in Serbia's territory, i.e. Kosovo and Metohija. Gentlemen, he even let a criminal in front of TV cameras say he raped a 9-year-old girl, later her mother, and then killed them both. This is all under the pretext and decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Serbia that the procedure led against these terrorists was not materially correct. The Supreme Court ruling, in any case, was given under the pressure of the West and Mr Batic himself. When he played those thousands and some real war criminals, he could have done at least one good thing for the Serbian people. At least he could have tried to exchange these war criminals for 1,300 missing Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija, to exchange them for the living or for the dead. If they are dead, at least their relatives bury them according to our Orthodox customs, as Mr Batic likes to say, they know where they are buried and perhaps their family members come to mourn at their graves. Mr. Batic didn't do it. Mr Batic sold these people for a few million marks or dollars. It's his morale and it's his values as a man. When it comes to Galenika, it shows one of its other parts of personality, which is called kindness. The largest drug factory in Yugoslavia has given its sponsor, one of its American bosses. Not to mention that since the factory is in Milan Panic's hands, Galenika is no longer working, Mr Batic has therefore indirectly threatened the lives and health of people who, by force, have to use the Galenika products. Gentlemen, it must not be forgiven once to the Minister. He doesn't meet the conditions of being a minister anyway. On reforms in the judiciary, as it implements them, the SRS has taken as an example an international scandal -- Mercedes-Benz, it has been discussed here several times. I wouldn't read it. Only here can one parallel be pulled between the government held by the SPS and JUL and Batic's authorities. If the parallel is withdrawn and all those actions that were not in the interest of justice started, since Batic was the minister of justice, are thus also completed. Who's in the interest of 20 million mark evasion being covered up? He's got a few interests. First of all, whoever made that leak, he's interested in covering himself up. Second thing, if he's already found a sponsor in the government, so is he. So I've said more than once about this pay phone than the changes you promised, which are going to happen to this society, there's only one thing that's going to happen. All the actions that were bad in this society have been continued and are even more pronounced under this authority. That's clear to even the little kids. Speaking of children and child care, for which Mr Batic declares himself, and for the sake of his actions, because he wants to amnest those responsible for the NATO bombing, to amnest those who gave the order to kill our children, it seems to me that Mr Batic in his amnesty forgot about Batajnica, what happened there after the NATO bombing. He forgot, and now I don't know exactly whether the Olympic or world math champion, the girl who died on the bridge at the time of the religious holiday. Gentlemen, as a parent, I will never forgive such men. I raised my child in such a way that those tragedies and traumas that he had during the war before he forgot. Since some people are in power, I can see I was wrong about that. From now on, I will raise her so that she never forgets everything she's experienced, from your gentlemen, the Western bosses, so she doesn't forget, that she won't be cynical and duplicitous and beneficial, so she won't be like Mr Batic and all those in this room who support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7994	The last registered speaker, MP Gvosden Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7995	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am Iron Jovanovic, and I come from Kragujevac, from a city they call - the hungry valley. I'm on the board of the flag where they say the flag is a black hole in Serbia's economy. I have evidence with me of the Zastava Group's business for a period of time since I've been on the board of directors. It all stands well here, I will leave it to the president of the Assembly and the people of this state of Serbia, to see how it was ruled in the flag. A million marks have been spent, so a million marks have been spent by the flag management, and I will finally read to you the people who sat on that board of directors. A million marks were spent on financing their parties, their local television, radio and various stands. It all writes well here, these are the findings of the flag and inspectorate and I will publicly hand it over to you to the President of the Republic of Serbia's Assembly. The theme is 30,000 workers of the flag group who are not working today. They don't work because politics is run the way it's run. Responsible people for what Kragujevac is today called - the hungry valley, and the "Stave" - a black hole in the Serbian economy, are the following people: Milan Beko, Nikola Sainović, Tomislav Nikolic, Milovan Bojic, Slobodan Tomović, Borislav Milačić, Tomica Milenkovic and Slavica Djukic-Dejanovic. Imagine where these people are now? Some are on their way to prison, some are outside the prison gate, and some are on their way to almost prison. I think Justice Minister Vladan Batic is responsible because these people who have ruined the Serbian economy and left 30,000 workers without a job are still at large. If he's responsible for something, he's responsible for it. The time, two minutes, won't be another 50 seconds ahead of you of the evidence that you're accusing me of leaving with the president of the Serbian Parliament to deliver to the public and to the judiciary. Thank you. (The People's MP Iron Jovanovic hand over the document to the president. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7996	Why the replica? I'm not the one who's being maliced, I'm being disfellowshipped from time to time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7997	I was a member of the flag management board at a time when we really invested in the flag of 30 million marks. At a time when even visiting on some televisions, and even on TV in Kragujevac, not local, I had never been there, but in private, said that we might have taken some cities in Serbia who rightly expected them to be helped, and that we who were from Kragujevac were then in the Serbian government took a lot of money for the flag from the Serbian government and invested in the flag. Thirty million marks or three billion, what did you say, 30 million marks? We invested three billion dinars in 1999 when it was the hardest. I'm a member of the flag management board who produced cars until October 5th. I am a member of the Zastava Management Board who returned its people to work, sold cars to Macedonia, Croatia, Slovenia, Republika Srpska, Egypt. I'm a member of the Board of Administration of the flag, whom an unwarranted man here has now accused of building television, radio stations, and you've even given us all the opportunity to go to jail. I will now take the opportunity to read about Iron Jovanovic, which was published in Kragujevac on Thursday, in newspapers that are certainly not radical. It's an independent, so-called "Soroshev Light," and you all know it. "A session of the Management Board of the Military Factory, which, at the initiative of the Vice-President of the Management Board of Zastava, Gvosden Jovanovic (DHSS), and the agreement of General Director Zoran Radojevic (DHSS) on the agenda, was held by the director of "The Planska", Djorđa Nestorovic, who raised a number of current issues and dilemmas in the flag." Djorđa Nestorovica, director of the "Second" Arms Factory in Kragujevac, who has been a young man for many years, but has endured all the crises the factory has had and has never joined any political party. We first ask Djordja Nestorovic if he knows why the Vice-President of the Management Board, Gvosden Jovanovic, launched an initiative for his shift? Before the meeting of the Management Board was scheduled, Radojevic recommended that I speak to Jovanovic, because something, as he said, targeted me. I didn't understand why someone would aim at me, but at Radojevic's insistence, I heard on the phone with Jovanovic. In that conversation, he did not state specific reasons for my shift, but he suggested that there was something for me. I invited him to talk openly, but instead he told me to watch out, that he was basically a very dangerous man and that I should take care of it. Internal inspectorates have been in the military post office for months to find something, but they haven't found anything. To speak with Jovanovic, I was also recommended by the chairman of the Management Board of the flag, Miodrag Savicevic. Do I need to tell you DHSS? You don't have to. Question: Did Geneks ask that part or all export jobs go through the company of the chairman of the Management Board of the flag, Miodrag Savivić?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7998	Is that some kind of big text?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u7999	No, it's over. "At the beginning of this year, I went to Italy, according to Director Nestorovic, to try to do some jobs, and when I returned to Kragujevac Deputy Director General Bane Soldatovic asked me hard why I did not sign the contract that "Geneks" represents us in future potential jobs in America and said that Zoran Radojevic was very angry about it. That's when I made it clear that we had a flag impeccable who worked well with America. I said, if you have new markets or for an already existing passage for some products that aren't there, then these are your jobs, but that you're taking away our existing jobs and markets is out of the question. And if I had a proposal for such a contract, I wouldn't have signed it." At the same time, you have abolished the flag representation in Moscow. You will no longer cooperate with Russia. The fate of the flag is sealed. You've admitted it to this speaker, but don't transfer it to the former board of directors' responsibility. Transfer responsibility to today's Management Board. In five months this year, you haven't produced as many cars as you did in one month last year. The state is the same. The government is made up of only other people, but the Serbian government is the one who is interested in the flag. After all, Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic twice promised to go to the flag to talk to the workers, so he couldn't leave either of them, but if the fate of the flag is in your hands, if Vladan Batic is the fate of the flag, my Kragujevci know there's nothing in the factory. I'm convinced you have a very bad welcome in Kragujevac.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8000	This was a double line for the end. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8001	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I am, which can be verified, although declared for discussion, in order to contribute to the more effective conclusion of this discussion than the discussion has been given up, but I am only going out this time to use the right to reply and to clear the balance that has been placed on my behalf. You know, there's a saying in Serbia that says that the priest and the goats are getting baptized and I want to believe that that's the only reason why Mr. Iron Jovanovic mentioned my name and me in some context concerning the flag. It's true, and I mean that I was a member of the Flag Management Board, and it's true, and I admit that in the flag, I have 30 years of employment, that my wife will be retired in the flag these months, that my brother has over 30 years of enlistment in the flag, that the late father worked 40 years at the flag, that the late father worked at the flag, and that I say "the flag" with a big "z" and that I'm always when it comes to the flag, maybe Mr. Schumatovac or called Shule, but come out and say that I do it and prove it. So, please, I want to repeat the name "The flag", so unlike the rest of you who don't know what "the flag" is, that it's an institution, that it's a synonym, that it's a concept of the forest, that it's the source of life for all those who work in the forest, and then Serbia and beyond. Unlike you, I say that name with great respect, and from there I want to say that I would never do anything that would harm the flag and its workers, even now that the flag is being led by those other ones who, conditionally speaking and allow me to use this pay phone for the first time, would not know two skins drawn to lead and guard. So let's explain ourselves a little bit about who knows how to do and who's professional and competent. I admit that I'm a little out of line, not because there's been a criticism that I've been involved in some occult actions or actions that can be proven. So, I'm looking for Mr. Iron and everyone else to prove what I was doing at the flag, and then I'm going to make a public apology from this pay phone. But what I want to say to this occasion is, I'm not really anything that the flag did in some context that the flag wouldn't do any good. For these reasons, I want to deny what's been said here, and for reasons of dignity, for reasons of consistency, I've given up the discussion at this point, so I'm not going to use the pay phone for it now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8002	Third call, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8003	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, after, I would say, a comprehensive debate on this agenda point seems to me, unlike some of your MPs, long ago and with the greatest success of my life, I ended up spelling and scythistic. You're not gonna find anything like that for me. That's what some people say, I never say. You want to calm this president of the Belgrade government who's always the most rude, the most arrogant and the most jealous? Do you think someone should be afraid of you? What are you yelling at?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8004	We can do that after the session, on the stairs or at the coffee shop, however you like.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8005	Only then would it be good if you didn't run off the stairs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8006	Or at the coffee shop.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8007	As for the debate, it showed that Serbian radicals and other MPs in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have presented a number of elements, which have shown all the reasons for the replacement of Minister Batic. It seems to me that even a good part of the MPs of the majority would show their determination in a different way than what it's likely to be, unless you accept my next proposal. Namely, my proposal is to comply with Article 118. The Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia accept a secret vote. So, in point 1. The Rules of Procedure say that "The National Assembly decides by a secret vote, when provided for by law, by this Rules of Procedure or by a special decision of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. "We believe that the results obtained by the secret vote would be incomparably different and that the Serbian Radicals proposal would most likely be accepted. It is obvious from the fact that the representatives of many political parties did not want to say a single word in defence of the justice minister. Not a single word that would oppose the arguments of Serbian radicals, above all, did not want to say, no other representative of the government of the Republic of Serbia. We think it would be useful to respect it as a democratic principle. I think so, and I don't think the MP majority should mind. I would try to recapitulate in a few sentences everything we talked about and try to convince you once more before the vote to accept a motion for a no-confidence vote, which is the Serbian Radical Party's envoy group. Since October 5th, since the DOS came into power, Vladan Batic and his activities have become the right emanation of the work and functioning of the DOS regime. Namely, from a violent incursion to the building of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, to the unmistakable justifications to which there is little damage from the two-story and several livestock that will be resolved immediately and within the most urgent time period, until we have heard that the damage is over tens of millions, which is very different, tens of millions of marks, and not dinars, which is a fundamental difference compared to what Mr Batic was talking about. Not to mention the incursion of the Galenika, I boasted, said that it was prevented by the president of the SRS, Dr Vojislav Seselj, who spoke differently, and argued that the factory belonged to our country, to our workers, to those whose factory it is. Dude wanted it to belong to someone else. I would say something about forced measures, because, one of the MPs here, except for the fact that they were talking about how all opposition MPs should be arrested, said that all opposition parties should be banned except those who would be raised, and that they would leave these discussions too, finding other reasons not to blame the authorities or individual ministers they consider dangerous. So, that's what we've been up to today. Despite all this, the worst proposal was the one that said that wherever the DOS didn't win, local self-government had to be abolished and the DOS started to manage these municipalities, because so-called. delegation of local self-government. I have to say, if that's true, then DOS should come down from power in many municipalities in the Republic of Serbia. Mr. Ivkovic did not provide accurate information on all election results. In fact, he skipped some in which radicals were more incomparably successful than the Socialists, especially in Vojvodina, especially in Stari Pazova, but, let's say, in Ojac, it's not a solved situation. You have three DOS, two for SPS, one for radicals, at Stapar is 4:2 for DOS, against radicals etc. But all in all, I want to tell you that DOS's majority and DOS' popularity are dropping. If you're going to have that in mind, the question is whether you would hold the Republic Government, let alone all the local self-government, but there is what's called legality, and it must not be confused with the mind at any time at all. I would like to remind of a statement by Justice Minister Vladan Batic, who said "The Voice of the Public", 30.1.2001: "The verdicts to NATO leaders represent legal farces and larceny, they will be revised". By what legal act, can anyone tell me, by what legal basis does the minister of justice have the right to excuse, let alone, after that, to take it as a final fact, as a final matter in some legal procedure, a nonexistent and all of us unknown, where and in which country is it? Some of them from this pay phone called on the Justice Minister to arrest. Well, that's why we're looking for his shift, that's the essential reason, and for those ignorants who can't read the Constitution, for those ignorants who can't read the laws, that's the reason for the shift. It's not his job. It's not his job. It's not his job. It's not his business. It's not his business. I just have to remind myself of a few examples that are drastic and in this case very similar to everything we're talking about -- how double justice was for different people. One man said earlier, I could agree with his discussion, I think he's from the ruling majority -- that's not the way to speak, that's how he deals with our ministers. I'm sorry, and who with black socks on their heads arrested the former president, no matter what I think of Slobodan Milosevic, with black socks on their heads, in what ways? And tell me, what about that criminal named Bogoljub Arsenijević-Maqui, the one who publicly admitted to burning down the Federal Assembly building, the one with whom the weapon was found, caught in committing the crime, but was released immediately afterwards? Right after that, he was released for the intervention of this Kostunica adviser to Nalic and the people of the Justice Department. So where's that, where's the land? As for those hackers you're talking about, they're a special subject. They are a special topic because the newspaper announced they were found in Vladan Batic's car. It would be good if Vladan Batic said that the newspaper lied and that they were not in his car, but in another car. And what it represents (so I left it for the end, to remind you once again), it is the fate of Milomir Stakic and the fate of Blago Simic. We can all tell each other whatever we want, we'll go home to our families, and after what was done to these two, the question is, and it's not funny at all, the question is whether these two, and Milomir Stakic, and Blagoje Simic will ever see their families again. And that freezer you're talking about is a special scam, which serves to Satanize the entire Serbian people, and that you don't even know what happened, and you want the whole Serbian people to charge with crimes and that all Serbs have to answer for it. I'd just like to say a few more sentences. When Mr Batic says that justice is the same -- formerly, former Minister Ratko Marcetic, has sued him for statements by Vladan Batic. The hearings were scheduled four times, he never showed up. So much for the truth that someone represents, so much for the truth that someone defends and so much for the truth that someone attacks. I would just say in the end that the democratic parties, of course, are linked above all to Catholic countries, to those countries where a concord was signed, to those who do not know it, and only later began to appear in some other countries. As for Romania, the very party you mentioned has nothing to do with Romania or Orthodoxy. That's how it went. The same was brought by Americans, as they brought a party belonging to Vladan Batic, with the same name and the same way. In the end, I would say, calling on you to accept the SRS proposal, both for a secret vote and for a vote of no confidence, since someone here, like the new era, tried to celebrate October 5th and shout "lived October 5th", some yelled "lived November 29th". Today, some say "lived October 5th." I must say, I hope that both of those dates will die as soon as possible in the Serb people, because only then can Serbia and the Serbian people be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8008	I'm finishing the search. I remind you that a proposal to vote non-trust and resolve a member of the government, as referred to in Article 184(1). The Rules of Procedure shall be decided by a secret vote, unless the National Assembly decides to vote publicly. I propose that the National Assembly vote on a motion to vote for mistrust and resolution of justice and local self-government, Dr Vladan Batic, vote publicly - using an electronic voting system. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. ) The first is understood, that is understood. If there are no other proposals, I would like to put the motion to vote on the motion to vote for mistrust and the resolution of the justice minister and local self-government Dr Vladan Batic, with the public vote - using an electronic voting system. I ask the Members of Parliament to make that proposal known. For 122 MPs, against 47, there were no abstentions, there was no vote of 6, a total of 175 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has decided to vote publicly on this proposal, using an electronic voting system. Since the National Assembly has decided on this way of voting, I remind you that, in accordance with Article 93(7), The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 184 paragraph 2. The Rules of Procedure, the decision to vote non-confidential and the resolution of a single member of the Government shall be deemed adopted if voted for by the majority of the total number of MPs. I put to the vote a proposal by a group of 23 MPs from the Serbian Radical Party's parliamentary group to vote for mistrust and resolve Vladan Batic's role as justice minister and local self-government in the government of the Republic of Serbia. For 45 MPs, against 88, there were no abstentions, there were no 44 votes, a total of 177 MPs. As a group of 23 MPs voted in favour of the proposal, which is not enough, I find that the National Assembly did not vote for mistrust, it did not decide on the resolution of Dr Vladan Batic as justice minister and local self-government in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Please don't leave the O.R., we have parliamentary questions. We have a registered MP, Mr. Lazar Marjanski. Please don't leave the O.R., we have parliamentary questions, that's common. This is the end of the session and there is no other opportunity, as part of this session, parliamentary questions are being asked. Please be patient, unless we're 50, then I understand your impatience.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8009	I'd like to ask you a few questions. The first question, how many people have suffered from cancer, leukemia and similar diseases in the country due to the effects of the refinery, from 1990 to today, as well as whether the trend is the growth of the disease. The second question -- to what extent is the ecological disaster in the Ataris Melenza, Taras, Elemir, Kumane and Mihajlovo, due to chemical toxins released during the technological combustion of the refinery. The third question, why a criminal case against "Naftagas Euromont" from Belgrade, Toshin Bunar 128, was suspended, where there were direct culprits of the New Sad refinery, where worker Vujanovic of Melenac died. Then she hid herself and hid the truth by intervention of the people of the refinery. People who work there are not respected, nor are they protected by work, and many people have not passed professional exams. As long as non-professional companies, such as Naftagas Euromont, are going to do complex refinery jobs, as long as someone is behind them. The fourth question...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8010	Mr. Marjanski, I am obliged to warn you that this is not in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You know how it's regulated, of course, the least I can say to you. It is simply not right to ask parliamentary questions in a minute and a half, and parliamentary questions in accordance with the Rules of Procedure must have a clear address, a clear man, or ministry in the Government, to be clearly formulated, it cannot be a question of how long abuses will take, etc. I mean, those aren't parliamentary questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8011	The first question is addressed to the Ministry of Health, the second question to the Ministry of Ecology, and Mr. President, if it's wrong, no problem, I'll interrupt.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8012	Go ahead, go ahead, just, please, make it clear. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8013	Every time questions have been asked so far, but so far in this conference they're not, it's always known who it's referred to. Certainly, when it comes to health, it's the Ministry of Health, and certainly not the Ministry of Industry. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8014	The word is made by MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8015	I have two questions and it'll be very brief. I asked the government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister for Higher and Higher Education the question -- when will the government of the Republic of Serbia undo the decision of the minister for higher and higher education. I got an answer I'm not happy with. I continue to argue that Minister Gašo Knezevic abused the position when he abolished the decision of the law school's dean, which was also given by the previous minister of higher and higher education. I continue to argue that the distance of Dr Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law was motivated solely by political reasons. Also, that Dr. Gašo Knezevic had to know that he was not authorised to lift the individual legal act of the dean on the basis of official supervision, and where the dean decides on individual rights and obligations and the responsibilities of teachers and their relations. So I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia a new question: Is there a responsibility of government members who protect Gaš Knezevic, Minister for Higher and Higher Education, who made an illegal decision on the distance of Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law? The second question, DOS in Nis, has brought a list of candidates for V.D. Director of primary and secondary schools in Nis and the environment that should have DOS support. One of the conditions is that no one is director, sorry, one of the conditions for being a director is that he has not been before and is now not a member of the SRS, the SPS or the JUL. Here's the document, and here's the proposition, where it's clearly written on that document. I think this is unsustainable, illegal, and it's a threat to human rights. Who can prevent someone who meets all conditions from being a school director just because he belonged or belongs to some political parties, if he meets all the requirements prescribed by law. Will you force people to join the DOS? I ask the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Minister of Higher Education - whether this is a legal criterion and what they will do about it.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8016	It's a bit unserious, in my opinion. Here you go. Mr. Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8017	Mr. President, I just want to appeal to Article 193, and I want to comment first on the response to the parliamentary question that I have referred...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8018	All you have is the right to the replica. You've been taken from your seat.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8019	I would ask you to read...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8020	Oh, that's the second point, I'm sorry. You've really exhausted me.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8021	Looks like, Mr. President, you're fighting yourself somewhere, you're not getting tired here, you've been staying here all day. So, on March 2nd, I asked the government of the Republic of Serbia, which was concerned with the solution of Minister Gasa Knezevic, who abolished the decision of the Faculty of Law Dean marked 02 No 42/6 since 3 February 2000, by whom Dr Vojislav Seselj was elected to serve as a regular professor for the course of the political system. Thus, Minister Gašo Knezevic fulfilled a publicly said threat that Vojislav Seselj will be expelled from the Faculty of Law if he is a minister. Meanwhile, Professor Vojislav Seselj addressed the emergency to the government of the Republic of Serbia on April 2nd of this year, warned the government of any violations of the laws that had been made in his case, in detail and urged the government of the Republic of Serbia to declare it, since it is obvious that the minister of justice retains a judicial dispute in which a verdict has already been reached in favour of Vojislav Seselj, under which the Faculty of Law must return him to work, in accordance with his qualifications. I ask the question to the government of the Republic of Serbia -- as long as he thinks he's silent about the case of the banishment of Professor Vojislav Seselj from the Faculty of Law and how long he will suffer to attribute to her everything that was once attributed to Tito and the communists. Although Tito's dealings with unspeakable professors did otherwise, he even hired the National Assembly of the then Socialist Republic of Serbia to do so. My parliamentary question on the basis of Article 190 was addressed to the Prime Minister and to the Minister of Industry. In 1999. Serbia has been told that foreign cigarettes will be packed in the flag in Kragujevac. The news was published by Milan Beko, then chairman of the Administration Board of the flag and - I must say - then successful chairman of the Management Board of the flag, no matter what you think of him or how it may seem to you. That's the man who brought his life back to the Car Factory in Kragujevac. The statement was welcomed by the knife of the then opposition, which convinced the labourer Kragujevac that someone would take away the factory they had built for years and hand it over to our children's poisoners, destroying the Serbian tobacco industry along the way. The same news is now being passed, only launched by DOS ministers and the management of the DOS car factory, or DHSS. The Serbian government owes the answer to three questions about this. The first question - is it true, who makes contracts, which companies make contracts, which halls will be used for, how many workers will be employed and how much damage our tobacco industry will suffer from, first, and then our children. Because of our market, this factory works here. The car factory has abolished its representation in Moscow. They probably want to export to America - not only do I know what - via Geneks company Miodrag Savivić, who destroyed the flag export to America 20 years ago. My question is, how many cars have been manufactured in the flag since October 5, 2000? Second question: how many cars have been sold from the flag since 5 October 2000, since DOS took over the Car Factory in Kragujevac? Information on how much was produced and sold by 5 October will be given to the Prime Minister and the Resorm Minister when they answer these questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8022	I don't know what I'm doing here as chairman. We're not here for 20.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8023	We don't need a quorum. We need ministers and the Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8024	There's a lot of parliamentary questions. It's not worth calling when there's 15 people here. Only tomorrow morning, at 10.00, we can continue and finish the session. By the way, I have 16 reports. He's got a word, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8025	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I want to say that it often happens that we don't have a quorum, as it is now obvious that we don't have more than 125 MPs in the O.R. It's an obvious case now. I'd like to invite you to a broader interpretation of the norm and the fact that no one has ever pointed out that before, so that we can end this session of the regular session. It seems to me like it's the smartest way. I think all the other MPs would agree with that. I think that would be in your interest and in the interest of the Serbian Parliament. I don't see what anyone would get by breaking up the session now, so we leave it for tomorrow or another day. This is an ordinary but very rational proposal that should be accepted by all MPs who are now in the O.R., as well as by the president. In particular, I think that it would be important to direct questions in this way, and by means of the public, because the question is whether any of the hot problems currently in Serbia will be resolved and will be understood with everything that is happening today, if it does not continue with today's session, and I particularly think of a question such as the issue of electricity restrictions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8026	You've been nagging me all day to break the Rules of Procedure, and now you're asking me to break the Rules of Procedure. I can't do that. It's just a question of what to do with this session. I can't put it to the vote that it's over, because there's no quorum. I can't stop her, I can't take a break, it's pointless. Let's just try tomorrow at 10.00. It's the same story again. Without the general agreement that the Assembly will work, it will hardly be valid. We have 16 registered so far. We have a question about how many cars are manufactured, how long will abuse and so on. Those aren't parliamentary questions. The fact is, we don't have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8027	I know from earlier practice that a quorum is not necessary to ask MP questions.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8028	I don't know what used to be practice. I have a Rules of Procedure in front of me, and I'm trying as hard as I can to apply it. It's obvious there's no quorum. I can't copy Tomic into everything, and you're nagging me that I'm worse than him. Now they tell me both radicals and DOS that I'm breaking the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8029	Where are DOS MPs?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-05-28-0.u8030	We'll try tomorrow at 10.00. It's obvious we don't have a quorum. We have to stop. I can't be harassed. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, many, continue the work of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I don't have any official records. I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the MPs' units, please establish the quorum. I don't think there's any need to wait, to respect the procedure that's common in these situations. I find there are 54 MPs present in the O.R. Since we don't have a quorum, I'm taking a break until 11:00. [[After break - 11.10 hours.]] I remind you that at yesterday's session, after 25 days of work, we exhausted the agenda of the Second Session of the First Regular Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001 and moved on to oral questions. Since a number of MPs have asked parliamentary questions, we have found that there are no conditions for the oral question of MPs, or that there is no quorum for the work of the National Assembly, so the session is interrupted. Since we do not have a quorum for work today, so we cannot continue to ask parliamentary questions, please MPs who wanted to ask parliamentary questions or government or individual ministers to do so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. At the same time, I remind you that tomorrow, starting at 10.00 hours, the session of the 6th extraordinary session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia is scheduled.
