ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u307	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I am opening a session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, 185 MPs attend today's session. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Srđa Popovic, Dusan Prophetovic, Kosti Nikolic, who are on long-term treatment and Bojan Pajtic. I would like to inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the sittings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. You were presented the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 22 January 2001. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) If not, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. Since there were no objections, we are moving to a decision on the record in general. I find that 173 MPs are present in the O.R. and there is a quorum to decide. I am voting on the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 22 January 2001. For 162, no one, abstentioned four, voted 26, a total of 192 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the first session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 22 January 2001, without objections. You were presented the minutes of the January 23, 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find there's a quorum to decide on. I am voting on the minutes of the January 23rd 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's First Extraordinary Session. For 181, two, with five abstentions, did not vote 13, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia adopted by majority the minutes of the 2001 National Assembly session of the First Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 23 January 2001, without objections. You were presented the minutes of the January 25th 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. Any objections to the record? No, there isn't. ) Since there are no objections to the record, we move to a decision on the record in general. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I find there's a quorum to decide on. I am voting on the minutes of the January 25th 2001 session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's Second Extraordinary Session. For 182, no one, abstentioned three, voted 18, a total of 203 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly adopted the minutes of the session of the Second Extraordinary National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, held on 25 January 2001, without objections. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call from the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was convened at the request of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Third Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following Dn e n i d : 1. Proposal for a Law on Amnesty, 2. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on its own transformation, 3. Proposal for a Law amending the Radio-Television Act, 4. Proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Special Rights and responsibilities of the President of the Republic, 5. Proposal for a law on the termination of the law on public information, 6. Proposals for decisions on the termination of functions and resolution of judicial authorities, 7. Proposal for a decision to put aside decisions on judges' resolutions. At the same time, the government proposed that those draft laws be considered by emergency procedure. Before we begin with the first item of the agenda, I would like to inform you that you are about to receive the resignation of MP Cedomir Radojkovic as MP at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia and the report of the Administrative Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia on the examination of this resignation, with a proposal that the National Assembly, on the basis of Article 88, point 2 and point 2 and Article 2 and 3. The law on the election of MPs finds the end of the mandate of MP Cedomir Radojkovic on the day of his resignation. In accordance with Article 88(2) and paragraphs 2 and 3. The Law on the Selection of National MPs, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Administrative Committee, finds that the term of office, before the time of his election, ended, was passed for MP Cedomir Radojkovic, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia - Dr Vojislav Kostunica, on the day of his resignation. According to the Law on the Selection of People's MPs, a vacancy in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia will be completed. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: - The proposal of the Amnesty Law has been adopted by the draft law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments from MPs Marijan Risticevic and Theodore Vlahovic. You have received the amendment of the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Justice and Administration Committee and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Before I give the first People's Parliament a word, I suggest that, according to Article 92(1). Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, let's limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. Do you have any other suggestions? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u308	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I suggest we respect the Rules of Procedure and that the time foreseen for discussion on this agenda be ten minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u309	We have two suggestions. Please, before we vote, to determine the quorum, so please insert the cards into the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the motion to vote to limit the discussion to five minutes. For 154, against 50, the abstentioned one, did not vote 12, a total of 217 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes a proposal to limit the duration of the discussion on this agenda point to five minutes. A principle search has been opened. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. Here you go, Mr. Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u310	Ladies and gentlemen, the honourable MPs, for objectively informing the public, because of the great controversy created in the context of the Amnesty Law proposal, I would like to say a few words. Amnesty is an act of mercy, amnesty is something that is common in the practice of democratic countries, amnesty is something that was common in the country's legislative practice. So, since World War II, more amnesty laws have been passed. I would like to say that Montenegro has also passed the Law on Amnesty, that even at the first next session of the Federal Assembly, a law on amnesty will be passed for crimes prescribed by federal law, therefore, at the federal level. So it's something that's kind of familiar, common, standard, and it's something that's always going on when there's significant political changes, like we've had in Serbia. When it comes to amnesty for criminal offences prescribed by the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, we must bear in mind both the conditions and the circumstances that exist in criminal and jurisprudence homes, i.e. in prison institutions, which, even more so, from the point of view of humanity, in some ways provoke the adoption of the law on amnesty, because the conditions in our criminal and correctional homes are indeed more or less miserable. They are beneath dignity, elemental dignity of personality. That's why we had one dose of moral obligation to, correcting what we found by taking over, access the Amnesty Law proposal. With this law, convicted persons will be pardoned or reduced by a time sentence, since there is often a face in the public that maltenes, convicted persons, will cease to be punished immediately following the adoption of the amnesty law. No, I don't. It's about the time-cutting, the forgiveness of the act of punishment. Therefore, 4.167 convicted persons will be covered, and out of that, the easier forms of criminal acts are approximately 58% of those who are in detention or 2,412 convicted persons. Then 15% of forgiveness will have 1,755 convicted persons, representing 42% of all convicted persons. What I'm saying is that there have been various pressures from convicted persons before the Amnesty Law was filed, and rebellion, and hunger strikes, which the public is aware of. We, on the other hand, have the pressures of one part of the public, and, above all, humanitarian organisations, some NGOs, which are against the adoption of amnesty laws. So we have some kind of centrifugal and centrifugal force. This government will not be held hostage by anyone's pressures, no riots, will accept no blackmail and ultimatums, it simply sought to find one true measure, guided by the reasons I mentioned earlier. So, wanting to accept, on the other hand, that in those legislative projects that have no ideological or political omens, such as the law on amnesty, we achieve the highest degree of consensus at the level of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, respecting those remarks and suggestions that were heard at the meetings of the Assembly committees and bodies, we have accepted by the amendment that the Government has submitted, that the two parts that belong to the group of acts against the dignity of personality and morals, as set out in Article 105. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, the promise or the anti-natural fornication of an powerless person and of Article 106. The criminal law of the Republic of Serbia, the promise or the anti-natural fornication over a person who did not turn 14, therefore to children, is an exception to amnesty and that those persons do not have a time-cutting sentence at any percentage. We've taken the view that amnesty should be excluded from people who are more than three times on prison terms, where obviously resociation doesn't have much effect and purpose. We sought to find a measure of consensus between those positions heard at the session of the Legislative Committee and the Committee of Justice and this proposal is based on the degree of consensus that we have been able to reach. The government's proposal to pass a law on amnesty does not mean that there will be favoring the country's increasingly escalating crime. With past power, Serbia has become a Balkan banana republic and there has been crime in this country. The government of the Republic of Serbia is preparing to pass laws on amendments and additions to the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, or perhaps adopting a new law that will correspond to relations in society and that will sanction some new crimes that did not contain the current Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia and that will significantly tighten criminal policy for some crimes. So we must stand in the way of crime and that is one of the first tasks and one of the new government's imperatives of the Republic of Serbia. On the other hand, we'll do everything we can to make life in prisons a decent man, to make correctional homes not look like medieval tapes, not to remind us of the Grey House, the Archipelago Gulag and Dostoyevsky. On the one hand, we're going to sharpen the criminal policy, and on the other hand we're going to create a system of a more modern prison, where no elemental dignity of people will be violated. There's one more thing to say, what's left for us to inherit from the previous regime. Today, there are just over 6,000 convicted persons in detention homes. Today, the punishment should be imposed because their judicial convictions, a little more than 2,000 people, we have nowhere to go, because the capacity and conditions for maintaining the sentence are such that there are no conditions for the normal housing of convicted persons. A great commitment to this criminology, the execution of criminal sanctions is ahead of us, and we will strive to fulfill that obligation. The proposed law, I repeat once again, is somehow proposed to find the measure that meets the conditions in which we are.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u311	Are any of the MPs answering for a word? (He speaks to Tomislav Nikolic: You go out for the pay phone and say it. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u312	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, members of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, members of the Parliament of the Expert Republic, as it seems in recent months, in this Serbia, at least three experts in each corner, who have the basic task of proving that in the previous government everyone was illiterate and ignorant, thieves and corrupt, and now all experts. What's the result of the experiment? The work has resulted in the agenda of this today's assembly, which has been so done, with such draft laws that have experienced such amendments from the MPs themselves, as well as from the Government of the Republic of Serbia, that it is certain that so many amendments to the laws do not serve the honour of this government of the Republic of Serbia that these legal solutions have been proposed. So I get why most voted that the discussion lasts five minutes, not ten minutes, because these solutions would be talked about a lot. Do you just say the fact that the proposal for a law on public information for amendments in general abolished the bill and introduced a single new member of the law. So, in fact, the government has written a new law to the amendments, even though she didn't want to admit it. Not to say that in this material and agenda laws are abolished that define the rights to adopt new laws. Simply, the government's expert work is not good at all for the government's work at first, and that's why we are limited to five minutes, because we would be able to discuss each proposal and how we could discuss it. As far as the Amnesty Act is concerned, it is clear that this act of mercy should be done and it is natural that this state, through its highest body, is the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, has made certain concessions and given hand to those who are and have become aware in prison that they should not have done what they did and why they are in prison. It is clear and good that the government has responded to the demands of MPs and amended its proposal to exempt against natural fornication against underage children, and it is clear that the new Bill of Law needs to tighten the provisions relating to child endangerment in our legislation. When I talk about amendments to the Law, I would only suggest here to the present justice minister, that in this new law on criminal acts, especially in the democratic society, an unknown variant, which is a direct threat to members of the municipalities, their families, especially if they belong to the SPS or the SRS, because in the White Palanca, in Kursumlia, there is a real savage against the committees to resign in order for the Serbian government to be able to introduce a forced administration, or DOS government. When we talk about the Law on Amnesty, I would like to say that I am looking for clarifications from the Justice Department on Criminal Association, and I am asking for the fact that on 23 January of this year, a delegation of the Federal Parliament, headed by Mr Micunovic, attended the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, where this assembly, which does not know that it lives, dictated what and how it should be done, so that the Assembly of the Council of Europe decides to accept us in its own domains. Of course, there's been a dictated amendment to the Amnesty Act, but I have to say that the head of our delegation had no objection to what was asked of us. We were asked decades ago to free Albanian political prisoners. A criminal association can lead to all Albanians who have devised and implemented certain terrorism and separatism in Kosovo and Metohija, who began killing six young men in an oven cafe, if you remember in November 1997. So the criminal association covers the political prisoners' area and you immediately know that we will vote against it. Furthermore, a commitment has been made to release political prisoners in custody and all steps have been taken to find those who have disappeared and to allow them to return. Unfortunately, I must say, for your information, our delegation has not accepted that it should take the necessary measures together with the international community, the countries of the region and the competent organisations to address the problems of refugees and displaced persons in the SRJ. Of course, we see that nothing has been said here about the conditions for returning these refugees and exiled persons to the territory of the Republic of Croatia, Bosnia and Herzegovina and other republics of the former Yugoslavia and to protect all cultural heritage and historical monuments. Of course, no one in our delegation has said anything about burnt and torn monuments in Kosovo and Metohija. In the end, I know it's time, but so I don't use my right to go out three times in five minutes, because you cut me short, I think, Mr. Batic, that this amnesty bill should be withdrawn for one reason, because it's not comprehensive. Given the government's current DOS authority in this republic, and to whom everything provides its hand in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, you should also predict the amnesty of NATO criminals, who have been sentenced by the Belgrade District Court for 20 years in prison. Because, personally, and the president of this government, you gave your hand to such a man, you allowed him to be on this country's territory even though an APB was issued after him. Why do I say that? In the same dictatorship of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe, it is said that our country is obliged to propagate and spread information about the tribunal, that it is spreading everything that goes as an act of self-indiction to this people, that it turns out that this people is absolutely guilty of everything that has happened to him.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u313	He has the word Mr. Pelevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u314	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Ministers, all the laws that are on the agenda today are, indeed, very important, but we believe that there are more important things than these laws that are on the agenda today. Accordingly, the MP group of the Serbian Unity Party has sent a proposal to the Serbian government today to include and solve problems in southern Serbia, since we believe this is a very important issue, as well as the problem of agriculture, since we are expected to have a spring term. I hope the Ministers agree fully with this and I hope that at the next extraordinary session these two important topics will be part of the agenda. As for the Law on Amnesty, the Serbian Unity Party agrees that not all those who are listed, and especially those who do not commit the most serious crimes, should not be amnested: rape, anti-natural fornication against powerless persons and persons younger than 14 years of age. So, and rape, since rape also offends the morals and dignity of Serbian citizens, especially women. The fact is that all the countries of Eastern Europe, which have changed the political system, have also passed the Amnesty Act, somewhere between 30 and 50%. Professional killers, so-called assassins, who have been meeting death in Belgrade and Serbia for the past few years, cannot be equalized with those who commit murder out of affect or malpractice, such as the murder of wives by their wives, etc. So there should also be certain criteria. However, the war environment, then a large amount of weapons, then a difficult economic and social situation, also contributed to the state's need to feel partly responsible for the crimes committed and for which the prisoners correspond. Also, inhumane conditions of life in prisons, beating up prisoners for no reason whatsoever, sometimes inflicting severe physical and mental suffering, a lack of educators who would really work on resociation, all this affects that the conditions of life and work in prisons are, indeed, several times more inhumane than in the countries of Europe. Also, small prison guards' salaries, their difficult living conditions, unresolved housing issues also affect permanent conflicts between prison guards and prisoners. Therefore, amnesty should be understood, in this case, not only as mercy or forgiveness, but as compensation for prisoners who have indeed experienced what cannot be experienced in any European prison. But, gentlemen of the government, you promised them, during the November rebellion, 25% forgiveness linearly. That's what the Commissioners of the Transient Government did. Therefore, since you inherited them, you should keep that promise. After all, you've also amnested Javier Solana, a war criminal who's been convicted by the court's decision, and unfortunately he's not incarcerated for 20 years. You've met him at the highest possible level. You seem to have done the same thing as the previous government, so don't laugh at the SPS for what I'm about to say, because you also amnested Sulejman Ugljanin, who was called an APB, then waited for him after he got back from Turkey, and was convicted for training and sending young Muslims to train to fight Serbs, but you amnested him, and then waiting for him outside the JAT airport in Belgrade. Gentlemen of power, you have amnested Fjor Brovina, also, who has been convicted by law, but you have amnested many Albanian terrorists who have either been in custody or have already been convicted. By all accounts, you have done nothing to free at least one Serb imprisoned in Kosovo Mitrovica, Pristina or Bonstille for those terrorists you released. Also, you have done nothing concrete to inquire about the fate of 1,300 Serbs who have been kidnapped and kidnapped, for which it is not known whether they are alive or not in Kosovo and Metohija, whether they work in camps or do not work in the camps of Albanian ballistics in Kosovo and Metohija. You will, in all likelihood, have the leaders of Albanian terrorists in southern Serbia, because I understand that a delegation of Albanians from southern Serbia to negotiate with the Serbian government is composed of nine Albanians -- six politicians and three Albanian terrorist leaders. By all accounts, the delegation will be led by a leader of Albanian terrorists in southern Serbia. So, the same scenario as when we were surprised that the leader of the Albanian delegation in Rambuje was Hashim Thaci, not their political leader Ibrahim Rugova. So, it looks like the exact same scenario is waiting for us. And, if negotiated with them, that means that you've amnested those leaders and that you're buying into the same provocations they've inherited and the previous government in the Rambuje negotiations. From all that I've said, since you've amnested both Albanians and Javier Solana, then we should amnesty our prisoners, and as you promised them -- 25% forgiveness for all but the categories I've listed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u315	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u316	So, not for rape, not for anti-natural fornication on minors under the age of 14, and on powerless faces. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u317	National MP Tomislav Nikolic applied for the discussion. I just want to, before I give him my word, to get to know you that the president of the SRS parliamentary group is unjustly absent, that this is not an orderly application, because the president should report your representation of the parliamentary group. But I suggest we make an exception and give Mr. Nikolic a word on behalf of the SRS.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u318	You're wrong, Mr. President. The Rules of Procedure say the president of the parliamentary group has a deputy president of the parliamentary group. We have informed you in writing that I am the deputy president of the parliamentary group, so you do not have to make exceptions for me. My back hurts from the exceptions, the ones that the government has done to me so far. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the one who was once in prison, knows how everyone who was deprived of freedom feels. That's why, as a private prisoner of the non-democratic government, made up of SPS, JUL and New Democracy, I have the right to speak of this law, feeling as one who understands those who are in prisons. This law will be partially freed from the execution of a person who has been convicted of criminal offences, who are either at the service of the sentence or have not yet entered into the service of the sentence, not by their own guilt, but by a stand with a provision of 101. SRJ's criminal code. The SFRJ criminal code, we just changed his name to SRJ. I have nothing to object to the passing of this law. I'm not thinking about the motives that lead you to propose it to the National Assembly. I will vote in favour of its adoption, although, as an opposition MP, I am thus taking part in an attempt by the authorities to gain political points. Something else has been bothering me since Monday, ever since I got this bill. Why emergency procedure? Why are we in a hurry to give amnesty to those convicted of crimes prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia, although the government of the Republic of Serbia was elected several months after the federal government. Why did the Federal Government not refer its Amnesty Act to the procedure and why did not an extraordinary meeting of the Federal Assembly take place, but the extraordinary session of the Republic Assembly with the same matter is first scheduled? Because the federal law on amnesty will release entirely from the maintenance of punishment or prosecution of a person accused or convicted of the most serious crimes - terrorism, association for terrorist action, desertion. Because it's the leaders, and the others that are far more dangerous, the DOS leaders, who have promised mentors from the West who have financed them so far, and because of their coming to power, even our country was bombed. Afterwards, you will give forgiveness to the punishment and to those you've already released from prison. NATO and the Cypriot terrorists were on the same mission. Whether the federal law on amnesty will release the responsibilities of all NATO members, employers and perpetrators, and how they will react to the citizens of Serbia, all of them, including those in prisons. Police have not arrested Javier Solana, the greatest war criminal alive, although crimes committed against Serbian citizens have been convicted by a judicial verdict. This looks like police and justice from the time of Slobodan Milosevic, when Ejup Ganic, who was wanted by the Yugoslav Army for the sake of the organised murder of our children in Sarajevo, who made an agreement from Sarajevo, was sought by the military as a criminal and a villain and an army were humiliated to give him an honorary review when he came to Belgrade. The generals who were in office at the time know that. A DOS leader then commanded the Yugoslav Army and the honorary unit, as it is called, Mr. Perisic, the Honorary Review of Ejup Ganic, a criminal sought by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. Does this mean that you do not recognise the existence of a judicial verdict or that it was one of the pardons given by Kostunica, like Flori Brovini, who has become a poet from the terrorist, and which merciful Kostunica has sent to the federal government's car to continue in southern Serbia what started in Kosovo and Metohija. By shaking hands with Solana, as with a friend and co-worker, many have signed up for a longer list of Serb traitors. Hearty smiles, aggressive shaking of hands, love at the meeting, Kostunica, Djindjic, Covic, Svilanovic, were racing who would contribute more to Solana in Belgrade.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u319	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u320	I'd ask you to use it, I won't answer any more, MP law. Television tied his arrival to cheaper sugar in self-services. We'll get cheaper oil if we forget and forgive and if it's a way for leaders and leaders to stay in power, like when someone soullessly beats a child and then gives him a candy not to cry. During the aggression, NATO killed at least 81 children. Maybe I, like other Kragujevci, am genetically incurably ill, so I don't forgive the murder of children. Maybe I am. Only you laugh, but the Germans were not allowed to enter the Kragujevac 10 years after World War II. I may never be acceptable to Europe for murderers, junkies, homosexuals, but to the shame of amnesty given to Solana and apologies for defending ourselves. The question arises - if Solana is not a war criminal, then can anyone in Serbia be called a criminal. How do you acknowledge the verdicts to the Serbs at the time of the JUL and the SPS, so people who are convicted of stealing food are in prisons, and you do not admit and only dispute Javier Solana's verdict. And do not bring him to justice even though he was available to you, and some of you were in your hands. If the Prime Minister is not familiar with the crimes that Solana committed with the brotherhood because of his absence from the country during the aggression, there are those of you who were here during that time. I can't do much. I can only donate one book to the Serbian government whose publication, among others, has helped two ministries of the government of the Republic of Serbia, for culture and for information, and the book is called "The Children Are Charged", and some of you have children, so I am talking to them. It's tragic, but for some who decide our fates history ends with them. For them, this book, the names of 61 children, and data on 21 other children who do not know their names because all family members have died and there is no one to give data to, for them pictures of Milice Rakic, Diana Pavlovic, Sanja Milenkovic, is important cheaper sugar. There'll be a choice. The end doesn't even seem to be. What do terrorists in southern Serbia risk? Even if they are caught in terrorist actions, you will hand them over to their NATO mentors before any investigation or trial. That's what's wrong with this whole story. That's what hurts. In the light of the Law, it does not say that he is merely an auxiliary means for the federal law on amnesty to be passed in peace, without a lot of noise. The Hague threatens Serbian patriots, and you forgive crimes against our country and citizens. You're giving amnesty to deserters and terrorists with whom you're negotiating something with foreign surveillance. Photographs of your attitude in front of our enemies would be forbidden as pornography, and perhaps not. Some of you are already looking for the legalization of marriage among men. If there was Vice President Koraq, I'd ask him if that's true. You've lost a lot of blood in a short time, and there's a question if you stay in power how long our country will last. I don't believe anything you say. Article 44(2) The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia reads: "It is forbidden to act in order to violently change the Constitution of established order, disrupt territorial integrity, independence of the Republic of Serbia, violation of the Constitution of guaranteed freedoms and human and citizen rights, to challenge and encourage national, racial and religious intolerance and hatred." Article 125. The criminal law of the SRJ reads: "Who, in the intention of jeopardising the Constitution of state and social order or security of the SRJ, causes an explosion or fire, or takes another dangerous action, a general dangerous action, or an act of violence that creates a sense of uncertainty among citizens, will be punished for at least three years." The South of Serbia is in the explosions and flames of terrorists. The so-called Presevo Liberation Army, Bujanovac and Medvedje kills police officers and soldiers, only Serbian houses and properties, and you negotiate with them with an excuse to negotiate with the devil to bring peace. And for the President of Yugoslavia, the constitution is a rigid document, which should not be held blind as drunk as it is held to the plate. It was Tito's attitude, so this current one could be called uncommunist. Nebojsa Covic, the Serbian government and the federal government adopted an American plan to solve the crisis in southern Serbia. The National Assembly doesn't know what this is about or why they should know. They are used to having Milosevic know what he's doing, which means Covic knows what he's doing, since he's a longtime closest associate of Slobodan Milosevic. As "Spiggle" was told by Bezinski -- the new US administration will continue to expand the hegemony of the United States, the new type. The United States is in the position of the world's leading force, and every new government has to fulfil the obligations imposed on it by reality. Nebojsa Covic cannot lead the action to save southern Serbia because she is afraid that a shell fired could be found on the Hague indictment.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u321	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u322	That's why he made a statement that the fight against terrorism wasn't when heavy weapons fell apart around the house. Such incidents, he says, will no longer occur, and the future name of whoever is responsible for such an incident will be published. It's a rag, Mr. Covicu. But if America is loaded on your neck for a Hague indictment against you, it'll be enough for you to hear a gunshot somewhere. That's why you can't save any of the villages in Serbia, and you're not the only ones. I'm talking to Mr. Covic. Any move by the doss leaders and leaders is limited by fear of ending up like all those who have served NATO so far: Milosevic, Milutinovic, Djukanovic, Plavsicka, why not Djindjic, Kostunica, and Dusan Mihajlovic will certainly get away with it, Perisic. You know why you're acting like this, and you're doing very well. It is not known how long each of you will be in the mercy of the lions, and with them, the Democrats and the advanced ones, there is no amnesty for the Serbs, nor any such. Mr. President, please give this book to the Serbian Government.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u323	Mr Batic, the minister of justice, has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u324	Mr. President, I would also like to warn you that you are warning the MPs to stick to the agenda. The story of patriotism and betrayal has been heard over the past ten and over years, so the greatest patriots have proved to be the biggest traitors, that because of their tirads and nonsense, there are no more Serbian ethnic spaces in Croatia, partly in Bosnia, and the occupation forces march on Kosovo and Metohija. The past power has made it possible. A past regime that allowed Albanian separatists to arm for years. Therefore, this corny matrix and the division of patriots and traitors are simply no longer worth it, it's spent. But it's not a topic, and that's why I wanted to warn the president to stick to the agenda. A criminal association has been mentioned -- immediately to say it does not apply to this law on amnesty, the illusion of Albanian separatists and terrorists, to persons convicted under federal law. The bill on amnesty refers exclusively to the provisions of the public law. So it's not about political crime, not about actions against the people and the state, it's about classic types of crime, so let's remove it right now. Whether and what kind of law will be passed on the federal level, on the issue of amnesty, perhaps for any of those parts, then, I think there are also ambassador groups, and the SPS, and the JUL, and the SRS, so there will be an opportunity to say something about it. Also, we have no obligation to the people's promises of the past tense. I spoke to DOS Commissioner from the transitional government, and he said no promise in terms of guarantee that all will be amnesty 25% does not stand. Alusias related to the release of some persons of Albanian nationality have nothing to do with amnesty. There are also pardons, there is also ablation. It is therefore not the subject of this debate. Yes, but they are not amnesty, we now have a concrete Code on Amnesty of Crimes, that is, for convicted persons, condemned under the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, where there are no political crimes. I'd like to ask the discussion to focus in that direction. Of course, anyone can use a congregation speaker to say anything, but we have a concrete bill on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u325	There's a word from MP Dragoljub Stamenkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u326	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, twenty political parties and parties have gathered and formed DOS and say to themselves that it is the trust of brains, that it is all Serbian brains. We received a bill of amnesty ten days ago, and today we have a bunch of amendments waiting for us, so we do not generally recognise this legal project, which was offered to us by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. The criminal law of the SRJ provides for the possibility for persons covered by the Amnesty Act to be released from the execution of a sentence, either completely or partially from the execution of the sentence, or to replace the sentence imposed with another penalty, etc. It is the basis used by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, when it submitted this bill, which today lies before the MPs. In relation to the type of criminal offences and to the relation of convicted persons to the verdict and sentence imposed, and I hope, in relation to their behaviour in the maintenance of the sentence in criminal and correctional institutions, the release from the execution of 25% and 15% of the sentence imposed is envisaged. If the aim of the punishment is to try to raise the perpetrators of criminal acts, and on the other hand, that it has the purpose of preventing and warning that similar punishment will be given to each of its citizens for unacceptable behavior, not revenge or revenge against the law-makers, then it is quite acceptable to support the bill of amnesty as an act of mercy. We can argue on criteria that predict the release from the execution of fines of 25% or 15%. Convicted persons of that nature and they showed it to recent hunger strikes in criminal and correctional institutions. The government has its position and its criteria, and the MPs will decide what is acceptable to the majority, and it will be, instead of the proposal, it will be the law on amnesty. The underlying dilemma that arises might be - should the amnesty act be applied to all the crimes mentioned in the bill? Perhaps, as a man who attended the very act of killing his father, my father was killed in my presence, in a cruel and insidious manner, today voted against this bill of amnesty, because these are wounds that remain for life in man, when he sees his parent being killed, that there has recently been no completely illegal release (I must mention, although Mr Batic, the minister, warned that this is not the topic of this debate), that there was no illegal release of Flora Brovina, you know who is, that she was on state media, that she was visiting prisons in Serbia, and that the Shiptari had welcomed her as a national hero. I have to mention the second case - the unfortunate Maki, as it is called, was released, that is, his detention for those crimes he committed in Valjevo, and on the other hand, nothing was done on his prosecution, because of the crime, and he himself admitted to burning down the Federal Assembly building, and he probably took part in burning down the state television building. And if it can happen that someone in prison is holding the penalty for burning down a haystack, and Maki, who set the Federal Assembly on fire, is walking free and making this regime a national hero, allowing it to address it through public information means, holds the stands on state television, then there is indeed reason and partly reduce the penalties of some people who are found to be more serious crimes in Serbia's prisons, especially if we know that prisons are sustained in very difficult conditions, because the fate of the prisoners is following us and fate. And so, I think this bill should be accepted and the only thing I could blame, my personal opinion is that for the murders that have been committed in a cruel and insidious way, there is no need to apply the Amnesty Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u327	Word by MP Goran Cvetanović
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u328	Ladies and gentlemen, amnesty is a Greek word that means a lecture to forget some guilt and a full pardon for the punishment that this guilt is taking away. In any case, we cannot carry out the amnesty in the right sense of that word, because we can be taught by experience, especially by Czech President Vaclav Havel, who, after the "ply revolution" let all the convicts out of prison and, as a consequence, had the crime rate immediately increased. At present, we know that it is proposed by law that for large-scale crimes prisoners be released 15% of the sentence imposed, and for larger and more serious acts, 25%. The prisoners themselves are on strike, since we were witnesses, looking for a 30% to 35% reduction in that sentence. We have to realize that somewhere around 60% of the returnees are in prisons and that mostly those who are tried for more serious crimes are in Sremska Mitrovica, currently suffering around 700 convicts, in Zabela 800 criminals, and in Nis 150. In any case, just because the whole situation that was primarily the cause of the strike, I, as a doctor, must consider it necessary to ensure more humane conditions of life in prisons, above all, about nutrition, housing and health oversight of convicts. In any case, we must realise that NATO's aggression over our country has just allowed the East, as the largest correctional home in Yugoslavia, to now be under Albanian authority. So, as the minister of justice said earlier, it is true that there are 6,000 prisoners currently in prison, and about 2,500 prisoners waiting for the execution of the prison sentence, but I hope that the new government will not invest in the construction of some new prisons. I guess that way construction firms won't become more profitable than they are. In any case, we must respect the opinion primarily of the female population, which we know has more than 50 percent in Serbia, which primarily advocates that convicts of acts such as rape, anti-natural fornication, incest, in any case these persons are not covered by amnesty. In any case, all amnesty prisoners are required, so except for these serious crimes to be done, but we need to make sure that all amnesties have to be legal, that members of parliament show humanity, not that certain individuals play a certain person like Flora Brovine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u329	The People's Messenger Petar Jojic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Stevan Kesejic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u330	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, the DOS has promised Serbian citizens and voters that they will seek maximum respect for the Constitution, respect for the law and for the state of law. I must say, unfortunately, that the first victim of the DOS regime is actually disrespecting the Constitution, disrespecting the law and disrespecting the rule of law. The proposal for an amnesty law does not state the reasons set out in the proposal. One of the allegations, which was approximately and decisive, is that the situation in criminal and correctional institutions is so bad that there is no worse one in the world. I have to say that's not true, and if I'm wrong, I'd ask the members of the government and the ministers to say when they were in prison that the implications of prisons were very well known. As far as I know, none of the members of the government, nor the minister of justice, was in prison, but the minister of justice was in prison on official duty, visiting prisons as a lawyer, it's undeniable. As for the material position in criminal and correctional institutions, I can say that I had the opportunity to visit all criminal and correctional institutions in Serbia while I was in the Republic Ministry of Justice and therefore I claim that these allegations are not correct. In the last five to six years, the Serbian government has invested more than 10 million German marks for the adaptation and reconstruction of criminal and correctional institutions and institutions. As far as accommodation is concerned, he is the only one unconditional in Belgrade County Prison. Penalties of Nis, Fireman and Sremska Mitrovica have good conditions. For prisoners, steam heating has been provided in all prisons in Serbia. That's number one. Number two, all prisons have television, all prisons have libraries, even 20,000 books intended for prisoners, hospitals, medical staff, newspapers, theatre performances, and therefore, conditions cannot be shown that they are as indicated in the proposal. When it comes to the structure of prisoners, or convicted persons, I point out that 60% of the convicts are in our return prisons, and 80% of the returnees are in Pogorevec. As far as prison riots are concerned, I have to realize that this rebellion from DOS Street has been transferred to prisons and that happened shortly after the government was conquered. The convicts say when there was a riot and a prison crash -- when the DOS can take down the Federal Assembly on the street, they burn it down and turn on the TV, and they don't answer anyone, so why can't we, when no one's not answering. The material damage that has been done is closely linked to the takeover of power. The question arises as to the role of DOS in organising a prison riot. In the history of the Serbian judiciary and in the execution of criminal sanctions, no case has been memorized, if anyone knows, that prisoners have torn down criminal and correctional institutions and burned. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law wanted those who broke the law to be protected in the first instance, but less those to whom a certain crime and a number of crimes were committed, especially those crimes that the first group also pointed out to the minister of justice. Therefore, I will also vote in favour of this law by members of the Serbian Radical Party and MPs, but I still have one thing to point out that I would disagree with in one fact. The fines have been the punishment that our courts have imposed in recent years. Mr. Justice knows very well, and I'm telling you that 80% of the paroles were made by some municipal courts and I have to tell you that it was one of the crime factors in our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u331	The People's Messenger Stevan Kesejić has the word, and after him is the MP of the people Gordana Pop - Lazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u332	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law that amnesties persons who are rightly convicted of criminal acts, which is proposed by the Government of the Republic of Serbia, is due today to adopt the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia by an urgent procedure. The government is in a hurry to pass this law, but I am convinced that it is even more impatient for any convict who is today in prison, expecting promises from DOS authorities in an election campaign, and afterwards in the October revolution. Of course, by passing this law, the SRS thinks it seems one human, good decision in any case, to legalize the law on amnesty, so that not every individual can amnesty when he thinks about who he wants and when he wills. However, some more questions must be asked here, and above all, whether the government, proposing this law, believes it will be applied to the integrity of the Republic of Serbia. If we know that Kosovo and Metohija, one part of Serbia and the southern part of Serbia are under occupation, which by NATO pact, which by the Cypriot terrorists, is almost certain that it will not be implemented or implemented in a fair way. Imnesty will be brought to the attention of the Cypriot terrorists, who have already been amnested before. Article 5 of the Law states that the solution to the application of amnesty is to be brought by the court who tried in the first degree. If the first-degree court in Pristina has reached a verdict, for example for a criminal offence that is subject to the proposed law, will the court act and apply this law? Or what court if it is not in Pristina, which court is competent to do so? It is likely that by proposing this law, the government had in mind that the application of Oatsacone in Kosovo and Metohija was not fully feasible, except in this case I was talking about. If it is in Kosovo and Metohija prisons and there has been Shipara, they have certainly been amnesty for a long time, as I said, and are now in the first terrorist ranks. As for Serbs, Roma and prisoners of other nationalities, but not Albanian nationalities, posthumous amnesty means absolutely nothing to them. That is why it would be better if the law offered, the minister of justice had oraged and restricted it. For example, he has given him 100 days, and he has limited him to that part of Serbia where the law can be implemented. Most of the convicted and imprisoned have their own relatives, who rejoiced at the colossal promise of amnesty to their loved ones. It's that 25% flat-rate promise, regardless of the severity of the crime, except, of course, those crimes that were said here, which I would like to repeat, and what we Serbian radicals have welcomed and accepted, not to amnesty those serious crimes. I wouldn't want to repeat myself in that regard. Now, when you bring selective amnesty, anyone who doesn't, and he expects amnesty, of course, that prisoner and that narrow family will be unhappy, will feel deceived, because the promises were completely different. This, therefore, confirms the practice that the current DOS government is no different or better than the Socialist government, which put itself in office as a cadium. The National Assembly today, MPs should only formally declare themselves to this law, because most DOSs, and I am convinced, and it is seen from the attached, and does not discuss this law. They simply want to tell the public that this is an act of goodwill.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u333	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u334	I'm finishing up, just one thought, this is the coercion they've caused themselves with their October 5th syndrome. As a result, the SRS believes that humanity and forgiveness are the virtues of humanity, not the property of a party. That's why we're voting for this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u335	The word has a folk MP, Gordana Pop-Lazic, and after that, MP Dragan Colic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u336	Before I address you according to the established agenda, I would like to congratulate all the members of the SRS, the Tri-Jerarch, who is celebrated today, and the other Serbs of Orthodox faith who celebrate that glory. I hope, Mr. President, that in the future you will turn the church calendar, allow the MPs to celebrate their glory and everyone else here, because I know that even the Democrats are celebrating Gjurdjevdan, so I guess we'll also have an extraordinary session at Gjurdjevdan. I hope you're not counting this on me in time. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, since our discussion is limited to five minutes, I'd like to talk more about this law. I'm going to have to read what I thought was freely interpreted. In front of us today, the bill on amnesty proposed by the Serbian government. At the beginning of my presentation, I will state that we Serbian radicals have nothing against amnesty in principle, at a certain percentage to the level of the fine imposed. Whether this is the right measure that is determined, it remains, of course, discriminatory. The promoter is obviously, suggesting that those convicted of maintaining a sentence be reduced by 25%, when it comes to crimes against property, which fall within the so-called classic crimes, which have been created by private property and who in total crime have very high participation, as well as in many other countries, wanted to show a sense of mercy, as he says, because our society has lived in the last ten years in the conditions of political and economic instability. Well, that undoubtedly affected the increase in crime. As a result of such a situation, the proponent said, there was increased repression, which largely suppressed prevention as a basic form of fight against crime. I can't accept such an explanation by the promoter, because the fact that someone who has committed a criminal offence by a judicial verdict has been convicted cannot be called an increased repression. No one has been sentenced to prison without having previously been found to have done so. No one has been sentenced to prison more than the one that's been laid down by law. In fact, the explanation should have made it clear what it was about. The situation in prison conditions is difficult, if difficult, the conditions are bad, if they are bad, or if we compare them to the conditions in other countries around us. There are many who are waiting for the punishment because there is no room in the KP homes. We've had insurrections since November of the month, and we can't do it any different than this. We've decided to amnesty from maintaining the sentence of all prisoners at a certain percentage. To remind you, the prisoners decided to rebel after the president of the state of Vojislav Kostunica's decision to release Fjor Brovina from prison. He said just before the minister of justice, there's a pardon, an amnesty, it's true, but the consequences are the same. Who Fjora Brovina is, you all know very well. She's a proven terrorist and who knows how many others were released, and the public hasn't been informed about it. If terrorists can be amnesty, why don't the other prisoners at a certain percentage of the sentence they've been given. Aware of this fact, the promoter reminds us that the Assembly of Montenegro has already passed such a law, and that before the adoption of the law on amnesty in the Federal Assembly for Criminal Crimes, this is foreseen by federal Criminal Law, which includes all crimes - against the state and all similar crimes committed by Fjore Brovin. If such a law is passed in the Federal Assembly, it will have consequences and certainly a negative reaction to those convicted of being punished for the criminal acts provided for by the Republic of Criminal Code. That is why you are hastening to pass this law with justice, not because you are merciful and you are very interested in prisoners and in the conditions in which they endure punishment. There is one uncertainty in the bill, and I have to ask Mr. Minister and ask for an explanation, whether the law also applies to minors who are referred to educational institutions whose sentences are not predetermined and the length of the duration, but only to a minimum and maximum, which means that it would not be possible to apply Article 5 of the proposed law, not only for the public, but also for their own sake, it may not have been the proposal that the law on amnesty applies to minors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u337	The People's MP Dragan Colic has the word, followed by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u338	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, we have before us a bill on amnesty, and I can immediately say that I will vote as an MP for the SRS with the pleasure of adopting this law. Taking care of people, their tragic fates and families should be the task of every society and every system. A lot of people are on time-limits throughout the Republic. Many of them have committed various violations of the law, various degrees of guilt, with different fates and motives that have led them into confrontation with the laws of the Republic of Serbia. A large number of their families, with great attention and expectation of our decision, are being followed by today's meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. We today must show our concern for their families, that the National Assembly is a human institution, and our humanity would be seen, above all, in reducing the sentence of convicted persons. In November of last year, prison riots spoke and indicated to the wider community that the overall political and economic crisis had also been reflected in the segment of society. After political changes, the situation in prisons has not improved. I think the DOS is responsible because DOS has taken over. We are witnessing the rebellion and hunger strike in Mitrovica, Zabela and Nis, where unfortunately there have been the most tragic consequences, the loss of human lives. There's been something that should never happen again, and that's why it's a huge responsibility on all of us who are here today. We Serbian radicals believe that this assembly should vote a law that includes acts that are subject to republican law and the Assembly must show today all its humanity and seriousness. Any decision on amnesty must be based on the laws of this country. That's why I don't understand, and I don't understand how Vojislav Kostunica has decided to amnest Fjore Brovina, whether to take it as a gesture of mercy or mercy, but how he doesn't remember having an amnesty of at least one Serb before. Compassion is a human act, above all, so I expect that today we will vote this law and bring at least a bit of happiness into many families to the satisfaction of Serbian citizens. For Serbian radicals, the dilemma will not be because happiness and prosperity of Serbian citizens are our interest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u339	The People's MP Vitomir Plužarevic has the word, followed by the MP Jovanovic Dragan.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u340	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I believe this law should be adopted in the proposal and with all the positive amendments proposed here today. It's humane to forgive people, and it's legal, and everyone accepts it as a legal regulation, not as an act of one's good will or whatever. It has happened that individuals for political or other reasons, which I am not going to initiate this way, have released Mrs. Fjore Brovina in an unknown way. It has been amnested despite opposition from former federal minister Petar Jojic and as such, with the highest honour of information and transportation funds released. I'm against such methods and this type of amnesty. We, Serbian radicals, advocate to accept this law by the Assembly, thus allowing all people under the bill to be amnesty. I have not seen in this bill how and whether the amnesty has included a juvenile population that is located in various homes. I advocate that this issue be resolved by this law on amnesty. Humanity must cover everyone who can be led under this law. The people who support the sentence in our prisons, which was seen from the means of information, extorted this law in their own way: it was a rebellion. This amnesty law will certainly make them think differently about their families, because the state should take care of them as well. And they're people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u341	The word is made by MP Dragan Jovanovic, and then by MP Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u342	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the minister spoke of the Amnesty Institute, and that is not disputed. No one in this room slows down the amnesty institute, because it is applied in the past and will be applied in the future. This is how the concise text of the amnesty law, no government, has ever offered any minister to their federal MPs. This is the gentleman's text that disturbs Serbian citizens and leads them to reason because, I will now quote you: "A person legally convicted of crimes, murder, kidnapping, rape, promise or anti-natural fornication against an powerless person, a promise or an anti-natural fornication against a person who has not turned 14 years old, robbery, robbery, extortion, extortion, criminal association, as well as persons convicted of crimes three or more times, are released 15% of the sentence imposed." To make hypocrisy bigger, the proposal of this kind of text comes from the minister and from the government, who is on the pages of our papers, every day on television, seeking to fight crime. We had a chance to hear from this speaker a week ago, who put the first act of the government's anti-crime program. We listened and believed. We expected that instead of texting like this to follow a new criminal law with a tightening of criminal provisions, there would be a tightening of criminal policy. This is how we have to think about whether there is only one thing between fighting crime - the fight against political insolents. There's a lot of things that point to that. These days you could hear about the resignations of the honorable men, the public prosecutors and the president of the courts, the people who are not members of any party, and the struggle is not to accept honest people to accept the position of president of the courts. This suggests that the fight against crime will equalise with the fight against political inexperience. An investigation against the director of television has been launched these days. Does this, Mr. Minister, mean that these days we're going to have an investigation into the director of the train for the bombing of the train in the Gredelian ravine, that we're going to have an investigation against the director of the factory, that we're going to have an investigation against the president of the home council for bombing buildings?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u343	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u344	Ladies and gentlemen, every proposal has its own background. And this proposal, this text, has its own background. Mr Nikolic noted well, one of the reasons for the proposal for this text is to cause shock in the Serbian public and prepare the ground for the adoption of federal law, which will be even more morbid -- we will give NATO forgiveness to criminals, we will also forgive war damage. Personal observation, I think this bill, in a text like this, could also be a hoax of a powerful legal lobby, headed by a Mr. Minister, who, through the cheek of the MPs, is trying to trigger a reduction in punishment, by law, for some crimes that, in a normal legal procedure, cannot be released. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u345	There is a word from the People's Messenger Stevan Guduric, and after that, MP Branislav Blazic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u346	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, gentlemen of the Government, I would only ask that the future Prime Minister and ministers do not come out to hold a letter, as Mr. Batic has allowed himself to explain to us what we need to do, since in the normal world MPs choose the government rather than the Government of MPs. We thought until a week ago that it was like that or maybe the DOS took a step forward, so first it chose the government, and then the government chose similar MPs, since, gentlemen, except that you're in the O.R., you didn't show up here to take a picture, if you can't talk. Your democratic changes, immediately the first law, and democracy, begin by letting thieves, murderers and villains out of custody. I thought you were going to jail for personal responsibility for what the individual did. When it turned out, in an explanation - because of the political and economic situation in society. Now, if this DOS situation is better, then it'll probably go less into the apps in the future. At least again, on the other hand, we have four months of bombings on the so-called. New television and new media, which are probably printed in a printing press, where it's cheaper, only stamps are being hit in the head, that different newspapers are being called, or maybe today what the law came before us, too, so to speak, paying debts to DOS, given that these gentlemen of theirs from the prison gave them warm support after so-called. democratic change. Immediately, they, like those on the street, did what they did, set the congregation on fire, television, and so on. And these helped you, so they set fire to prisons. Then I don't know how they're gonna put these new ones in jail now, if they don't cut capacity, since half the prisons are down and burned. It turns out that to enforce this law, they don't need any money, like everything that needs to happen in the courts, it's all volunteering, judges working for the bad guy, lawyers working for the bad guy, everybody working for the bad guy, and then applying all this doesn't cost anything. It's a little hard to explain that it is, but if you say so, we'll almost believe you. If we're talking about prison conditions, who's going to be responsible for what's gotten worse, if you and those who have made jail conditions worse, now you want to let them out of jail. It's not like some people from the street were coming to break down, it's them who are. Then you say, because of the worse conditions. You've made yourself worse. What I always have to say is, does this amnesty mean amnesty, and I'm going to ask those who are in my neighborhood, and there's a lot of them here, which in Novi Sad, does amnesty mean the amnesty of those who brought down the Varadin Bridge on April 1st, and then a few days after that, they brought down the Freedom Bridge, and then, frankly, it took them a lot of days to bring down the Jell-O Bridge? Are we going to amnesty those who, like Solana, came the other day, and then we hear a great statement on the radio. He says he's very glad he came to Belgrade. Otherwise, he loves us very much. What would he do to us if he didn't love us, that's what you DOS will explain to your people.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u347	The People's Messenger Branislav Blazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u348	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must direct one, in a way, and a remark. It is not acceptable to limit the time for discussion when discussing such a serious subject. We need to discuss whether someone in prison will spend 2-3 years more or less, and for that it is limited to 5 minutes. The general presentation of Mr. Minister is very much based on some human aspect of this whole law. Mr. Secretary says this is an act of mercy. Perhaps it would have been an act of mercy if it hadn't been fortified by charity. Extorted, above all, by demonstration and rebellion in prisons. If it's charity, let's remember one mercy, and then, first of all, it's to those campaigners and the bombing of this country, who called that campaign, "A merciful angel. "This government has amnesty totaled the most merciful angels, who so angelically bombed us for 78 days. This law finally came to the agenda after that November rebellion, and in fact, it provoked this whole rebellion to one, to some so-called. The wave of new democracies, by the endless process of the first man of this country, who hastily wanted to show all his democracy, under the pressure of the European Community, freed Flor Brovine, convicted of terrorism overnight. So pompous, accompanied by the federal government car and the presidential cabinet, the lady went away as a great hero and a great humanist. There, in fact, democracy fell at the first step. Compared to that, I can remember in 1989, when the revolution in Romania was carried out, when dictator Ceausescu was thrown away, and right after that, to show great democracy, they measured his pressure and shot him on the same day. That evening, the Swiss government gave a notice and said - if this is the beginning of a new democracy in Romania, then that democracy has nothing to do with it. And there was nothing to this day. If this is the beginning of some new democracy in Serbia, by letting terrorists go by a single man's decision, then that democracy will probably be nothing, too. Because no individual has the right to rise above the laws of any state. At least in this country, from Broz, it wasn't there. In fact, the question arises, where are these Shipatarian terrorists, for whom the European Community also asked to be released? Are they still in prisons or are they already released magically, overnight, without public notice? They may have been released because of inhumane conditions or have been taught overnight that they are heroes, heroes of battle, but for their nation, which they probably are. However, in this country you are going to jail for this reason, but for one you will surely be released if you go there. You will be released if you have killed a Serb police officer or if you have killed a Serb soldier. Is all this going to be amnesty? They will say, well, you may not have thought so, for they are clay pigeons and serve to kill them in this land, their land. Are you going to amnesty tomorrow and those who shoot Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedji, at Serbian police officers today? The main news is that Serbian police have not responded to the bombing, to the shooting of Serbian columns, to cars, to buses. That's the most important thing - it's not answered. The police in their country are not responding to terrorist attacks. I want to repeat that when it comes to this human aspect, it's not a dispute, it's certainly no one's against doing something to resociate these people, to get involved in society, to help them if one moment they're out of the way, off the right path, to get back on some straight path. However, there is no way to talk at all - what are the conditions. You can't talk about what's going on in that way, first of all, that problem as more psychological-sociological in these people is being solved. To help them. A serious analysis must be given, what is the situation in prisons, how these people are handled, how much help can be made to really resuscitate them. Therefore, under this law, it would be good to make one strategy, to form perhaps one team that will examine all these elements and for some future time prepare a way to solve all the problems that are certainly undeniable in the area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u349	The People's MP Zlatan Jovanovic called for the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I want to congratulate all the members of the Serbian Radical Party and all the committees, as well as all the Orthodox believers who celebrate today, the glory of the Holy Tri-Jerrh. As far as the Law on Amnesty is concerned, it is already said that Serbian radicals accept this law not because we support the current rule, but because we consider it an act of humanity, especially if the conditions in which convicts maintain prison sentences are taken into account. I would like to stress that the proposed law is not an act of mercy, as it is pronounced here, but that it is the result of events happening in our prisons and other institutions to support the fines of October, of so-called. democratic change. All these events have just been initiated by those who now make up the current power. The question arises whether and how many, besides Flora Brovine, Shipatarian terrorists have been released from prison from October to this day, and whether this law is about to cover the formal amnesty of Cypriot terrorists. What concerns is the lack of interest of the current government for Serbian prisoners in Kosovo and Metohija. I am personally interested in when the current government will get the strength, get the courage to ask its Western friends to release Serb prisoners from the Cypriots, as well as other penitentiary in Kosovo and Metohija. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u351	There is a word from MP Veroljub Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u352	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am the law on amnesty and what conditions are in our prisons (President: Please just for a moment. [[unheard]] )......................................................................................................... The Serbian Radical Party will support and vote for it in principle. It's just a little weird why that law wasn't selective enough, especially when it comes to crimes that have a background of a blood cleavage behind them. The bill says that convicts who are returned will not be amnesty three or more times, and whether a man needs three times a man with the imagination to kill without being convicted or not to talk about the crime of rape, because that imagination is probably not necessary. The fact is that such people are also covered by amnesty, and probably because they are ringleaders in prisons that today and the very inability of the government to deal with such rebellions. The Serbian Radical Party will support the law for another reason. What are our killers who killed one or two men when Mr. Justice Minister walks a mass murderer and a war criminal under the nose and a police minister, and he doesn't arrest him. Mr. Minister said we wouldn't be a banana republic. But because of the lack of respect for the laws and decisions and the judicial solutions of our courts, this seems to be a banana government. And, I want to say something else, which Mr. Minister said too, means that we don't make any speeches on the national issue, the state interest, etc. And that's important, Mr. Minister, but it's much more important for you to abide by the laws of your courts and your country, so that you don't get the adjective of the southern fruit you mentioned in the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u353	The word is made by the People's Messenger Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u354	Ladies and gentlemen, one general question is imposed when maintaining this extraordinary assembly or rather a dilemma. The dilemma is whether to appoint an emergency assembly with such agenda points, while the state of emergency is in southern Serbia. Whether to discuss laws concerning the denial of the rights of the President of the Republic, the laws replacing appointed judges, the presidents of the courts, or to discuss in this assembly what the situation in southern Serbia is, what the situation in Bujanovac, Presevo, in Medvedja is like. We were literally bombed from day to day with information that there was some plan of the government of the Republic of Serbia, a plan to solve the problem in southern Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u355	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u356	I speak in principle, you know, don't interrupt me. It's primarily before I go to the agenda, and don't get excited and worry about what I'm going to spend my time on at the pay phone. The plan has not yet been announced to the Assembly today. The congregation isn't familiar with that. The merits of individuals stand out. Personally, like all of us Serbian radicals, I get the impression that this misery that has hit us in southern Serbia is currently serving to personally promote individuals in the government of the Republic of Serbia. If you think the solution to the problem in southern Serbia is that from evening to night they will be photographed in front of TV cameras and bombed with their philosophical thoughts or their inventions by this nation, then they are very wrong. That's the problem, the priority problem. Of course, this law on amnesty that is proposed is and how significant. It is important at this point to bring not only as a human gesture but also because of the very fact that the resolute minister made, that 60% of the convicts who currently committed minor crimes at the time, that these are people who are in most cases, not a small number of them are among those 60%, who at one point may have forged some documents, or have done something that is against the law and have been sanctioned under the law of this Republic. Life, however, imposes some reality. We are witnesses to this reality, especially after the appointment of this government. If counterfeiters are among those who support the sentence, the question is how did the current agriculture minister avoid the fine? A man two years ago forged documents, party documents, a coalition called Vojvodina, and on the basis of that forgery, MPs were expelled from this assembly. Some MPs were compensated for the damage, and he became a minister of agriculture. Of course, from this dilemma comes one answer about the thinking of those people who are on the stand. Maybe they should have changed their hair a little, so they could get on a list that also includes Vojislav Kostunica, maybe they would have been, not just ministers, but vice-presidents of the government. Secondly, the same question of life is- how that category and that group of people, who, by pulling a sock on their heads, were breaking into the supermarkets, stealing, someone from these, someone for those reasons, but not negligible to the number of people who were starving to feed themselves and the family, and they are now maintaining the prison sentence. At the same time, the governor of the National Bank of Yugoslavia, in the style of the biggest criminals, is breaking into the National Bank of Yugoslavia, robbing and not responding. Not only is the government behind it at the federal level, but also at the republican level, the international community stands behind it. These are some arches that need to be taken care of. And this gesture and how, not just a gesture of mercy, but a gesture that in any case wants to help these people, especially this category of convicts, who have committed minor violations. In any case, the task of this government, or the Prime Minister, is also to help those who have avoided such punishment. We hope, if nothing else, that at least individuals will go to support the fine they deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u357	The word is from MP Rajko Baralic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u358	Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen Members of Parliament, esteemed journalists, Madam Vice President, when you remind MPs in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, do not ever say that their time has run out, it can be ugly, it can only run out of time foreseen for discussion, according to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Batic, it is inappropriate for you to address the president of the National Assembly as - I warn you. You are not here to warn the president of the National Assembly and of any MPs. You can pray to him, suggest and comply with the Rules of Procedure, a lucidity which, I hope, you possess, as minister of justice, with all of us for joint business. The draft law on amnesty is at least excitable and no doubt a single-orced intention is to have parliament and the Republic within the Federation, and also the Federal Parliament, agree on this and to have three laws before our public, which will ensure that what was never possible, becomes today. Not entering, as you say, into the motives of charity, although I think this word and this notion in the past few weeks have been very ugly, yet I would like to say that for the citizens of Serbia this is not the most important question, that the feelings of members of the families of the damaged persons at this point are injured and that I am amazed that in the bill on amnesty you could have included those acts, which you later downloaded. It's about rape and other similar crimes. On the 7th of this month, the family of a unhappy little girl addressed me. For understandable reasons, I am unable to read this letter here, but as far as I get the consent of my parents, I will grant you a letter, Mr. Batic. It's a 13.5-year-old girl who was raped and who, several months after that, in a state of total mental dispersion, committed suicide. Who has the right to amnesty or suggest that such a man who has committed such a crime be amnesty? You failed your exam today. That's not the most important question. There's someone else. Don't throw it away, Mr. Minister, it's not nice. Besides, as far as the exam is concerned, you've fallen for a few more. That's right, Mr. Minister, we've fallen for all the exams, except in one -- we've never shot Serbia. That's what you do today. In history, you will be remembered as a black link to the eyes of the firing water, which shoots at Serbia. You still have a chance not to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u359	The word has been made by the People's MP, Srboljub Zivanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u360	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, I'm sure you're familiar with it, or at least you should know that the amnesty is trying to achieve not only criminally political but also certain political goals. It is a political act of mercy, given by the new authorities of the state. Amnesty does not only benefit those it refers to. And those who decide on them have a certain political interest. In the history of one country, especially amnesty sometimes seeks to resolve or at least mitigate certain social and political problems. In nature amnesty is an act that is extremely applied. Since it is derrogated in fact by the application of criminal law, it must not be widely used. Its application must take note of truly rare exceptions, which will not interfere with the exercise of criminal law, as well as the achievement of the principle of justice and legal equality of citizens before the law. Otherwise, there are serious disorders, not only in the area of criminal justice, but also in society. Amnesty is a very old facility. She was famous in Roman and medieval law. Interestingly, it has been used throughout history for both abuse and obstruction of justice under the law. That's the case right now. This is very important -- is anyone wondering what's going on with the damaged, the victims of the crimes that have been committed? Who will help them, have they ever recovered, and what about their lives and joys, when again in their city, the village, the street, see and go from those cause of their misfortunes and sorrows? Does this company take care of them? Therefore, amnesty should be rarely used as a declaration. It is known that in Yugoslav criminal law, for the most serious crimes, a prison sentence of 20 years can be imposed. On the other hand, enough has been debated and claimed that in this way, criminal policy is thin. It's a variety of mitigations. Some criminal laws, from countries that want to prescribe their democracy as a general principle of freedom, know the system of sentences and the deprivement of freedom indefinitely. That's the case with a series of federal states, it's New York, California and others. I read somewhere, although I am not a lawyer by profession, that the famous professor of Law School in Belgrade, Zivojin M. Perić, who dealt with almost all the branches of law and left behind a great and significant piece of work, said that the most important thing is to preserve the authority of the law, the legality and security of legal traffic and order in society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u361	The Messenger of the people is Slobodan Janjic. Let the Messenger of the people be prepared, Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u362	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I immediately begin by congratulating the glory of Tri Jerarh to all believers and members of the Serbian Radical Party and also welcoming all Serbian heroes who are in positions in the Pcinj district exposed to terrorist action, and prevented adequate response to attacks. I'm an MP from Pcinj County, so I'd like the MPs to pay attention to what I want to say. DOS authorities in their concern for the Serbian people predicted a very important agenda item for this session. If it wasn't sad, it'd be funny. The first and most important point and problem for DOS is not education, health, standard of citizens, economy, agriculture, pensioners, etc., but the Law on Amnesty. The very material delivered to the MPs shows that a highly sensitive substance was made very superficially and unprofessionally, so it can be concluded that this law, in addition to that, wants the official release from prison of almost all Shipars who have maintained the judicial prison sentences in Serbian prisons. At this moment, Mr Batic is outside the Assembly a large group, over 1,000 relatives and friends of abducted and murdered Serbs, asking you to go to the Assembly and answer where their loved ones are and whether they are covered by amnesty. If anything, find a match and talk to them. DOS powerful men no longer choose the means to reach the West and the Shiptars, so they flagrantly violate the Constitution and the law daily. In all this, Milosevic's communal and ideological son, Mr. Covic, who introduced a forced administration into Bujanovac, publicly condemns but also amnesties, depending on whether the accession card is signed or not. He immediately appoints or resolves executives, so I ask the Government and the Ministers if an emergency, temporary administration or something like that has been introduced in Bujanovac? He was sentenced by the Pcinj County people to life-long persecution from the Pcinj County, so I hope that they will not be amnested by this law and I will vote for the adoption of this law. Another reason that has defined me as voting for this law is the argument that prisons have no more seats, and there will be plenty of places for all those large-scale business criminals from JUL and SPS, who are now members of DOS and DOS parties, hoping that the donations will be amnested before the trial. In your explanation, you didn't explain whether you were paying these debts to prisoners whose protests made it known who was conducting it. As far as prisoners themselves are concerned, for certain categories, the expected reduction could be greater. Can you use this law to amnesty all the Serbs and non-Albanians who are in the home prison, because their movements are disabled and their children are in the basements? You remember what it was like for you when your parents were in the basements, when the bombs were dropping, because the daily facts of terrorist artillery were. Do you use this law to amnesty and Serbian children in Presevo, who are in school prison? These children, accompanied by parents, come to primary school, and then hold them for four hours without water and the possibility of going to the yard or the toilet, because then the Shipage children lynch them in the halls and courtyards. Can you also amnesty them from this school prison? These prisoners are only seven to 11 years old. Covic seeks the participation of Shipara in power, and this is what it looks like in practice in Presevo. The local self-government has 65 employees, the president, the vice president, the executive council president, all the chiefs, all the employees, except four, out of 65 are only four Serbs, one parent, one technical person and two couriers. They need to be given more power. Whose rights have been compromised, DOS gentlemen? A similar scenario is now being conducted in Bujanovac. Serbs are being replaced, and in their places, under the conductor's stick, Mr. Colic's position is being placed by the Shyptari. Can you pre-amnest yourself with this law? There's a saying-- the army's about a cut, and the DOS is about honesty. Who pre-amnested the Cypriot police officers who dropped their uniforms in 1996 and 1997, and now re-emerged to the UNF police in Presevo and Bujanovac, and some are known to have been in the UNC and killed Serbs in Kosovo. To calm down, let it serve you the information that grenades have already begun to fall in the vicinity of Vranj, or crow villages. All parliaments in the world are discussing a problem in southern Serbia, and we are dealing with amnesty.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u363	The People's Messenger Lazar of Marjan has a word, and let Miomir Ilic be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u364	Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I'd like to say a few words about this law. Mr. Batic, I followed you in your presentation and as much as I remembered 4.167 convicts at the moment have. I just wanted a few things I don't agree on. I don't agree with the part where you say very difficult conditions are in prisons. I'll list examples of prisons that I know, which are open-minded, like Zrenjanin, Sombor, and there's more in Capac, Zajecar, Leskovac, Muprija, and these are open-minded prisons. In those prisons came and now the international delegation of the Red Cross is coming and has very positively expressed itself on the conditions in those prisons. I'll give you an example of Zrenjaninski prison, where unfortunately for me and for the rest of us one of the best prison managers, Slobodan Karlak, of a small prison, created a large pig farm, a large cattle farm, a pond with a well, hired them all. The changes from October 5th took him down. He was taken off by the people from the prison, the people he suspended. I have to say the same thing, that that law was for convicts to go out, work at various firms, and so on. What would I suggest if I said a few more words about prisons? Our prisons are much better than Romanian, Bulgarian and so on. I don't know about other prisons, but the ones I know, that's right. I would suggest another, and maybe there is, but I don't have that knowledge, people who have been convicted for a long time, for long periods of time, it would be good if they were to finish some trade, some school or something. to go free to work in companies, later, after getting out of those prisons, to work there, to get them back to their lives as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u365	Thank you. The People's Messenger Miomir Ilic has the word, and let Garčević Vladimir be prepared.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u366	Respected Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, the bill on amnesty is among the first laws, which the Republic government has delivered to the parliament of the Republic of Serbia for consideration and adoption, as part of a announced package of new legislative solutions to the new government in Serbia, and all, according to Prime Minister Djindjic in his exposé, to democratic change and prosperity of the Republic of Serbia. If it is known in the morning, then it is not well written to the citizens of Serbia, and democratic changes will be nothing, because if the basis for Serbia's prosperity and better life for all citizens of our republic is to first pass a law on the amnesty of convicted persons, and this is not some firm guarantee that the economy will wake up, that the living standard of the population will improve. Democracy in society needs, but I'm not sure whether it's necessary to start with amnesty of convicted persons, and that's because convicted persons in criminal and correctional institutions organized riots of a destructive character. And now, about the bill. Article 1 The bill is freed from the execution of 25% or 15% of the prison sentence, convicted persons depending on the severity of the crime committed, not entering into whether the crime was committed with imagination or incessantness. In Article 1, point (a) is replaced by the following: The bill is released for the most serious crimes of 15% of the sentence imposed, and the proposaler did not take into account that the most serious crimes in most cases are imagined. I cite a few examples. Is it possible that a convicted person who has imagined to produce and placed on the market a strong alcoholic drink without quality certificates, and due to the failure of the same then a greater number of victims and to turn into black families of those persons, now this law requires that he be freed from the execution of 15% of the sentence imposed. Is that not an incentive for some new cases of new species? Or, more clearly, the Republic of Serbia has been fighting Albanian separatistism and terrorism in Kosovo and Metohija for years. In order to preserve the territorial integrity and sovereignty of the Republic of Serbia, to protect Serbia's living, many young lives have been lost. Do the murderers of these young men, who responded neatly to the call of military and police authorities, give their lives, now need to be amnested for 15% of the fines imposed. We cannot accept such a law, we will not be satisfied that 56 metal balls only on the monument of the fighters of Braničevsky County in Požarevec will be a memory of them and of the comfort families. Their killers have no right to amnesty for such a crime. In the end, this is possible, and we are talking about amnesty for convicted persons by 25% or 15% sentence, and in recent days we have been witnessing that the most serious crime against the people and the state has been amnested by a NATO criminal completely. A war criminal comes to a crime scene, bright and smiling, confident of himself and his decision to launch a NATO army on 24 March 1999 on a small and sovereign country, never conquering. The criminal did not go to the crime scene, because he is happy and happy that the new government has received him and is able to help rebuild the country he has destroyed in a new position in the European Union and contribute to democratic change in Serbia. In this way, I would like to remind this cynical war criminal of the following: under his leadership, several thousand citizens of our country have died, that many infrastructure facilities and facilities have been destroyed or destroyed. He had to find some time and go to the neighboring Batajnica, visit the mother and father of the dead girls Milana Rakic, who lost her young life in a NATO missile attack on April 17th 1999. In his second arrival on the sovereign territory of the Republic of Serbia, he could at least see from the plane, say, three broken bridges across the Danube River in Novi Sad, a destroyed oil refinery in Panchev, a destroyed factory in Nis....
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u367	Please stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u368	I'm sticking to the agenda. In the capital itself, he could see through the window which objects were destroyed. If he had seen it, he probably wouldn't have laughed so cynically, or offered only 400m euros for reconstruction, but 400 billion. Not only for the destroyed objects, but also for the damage done. In particular, for an ecological disaster, from which Serbian citizens will suffer for a long time. As for the explanation given by Mr. Minister of Justice and the local self-government, that the law on amnesty is passed among other human reasons... (President: Time. )......................................................................................................... Because the situation in criminal-correction conditions is alarming and there's a matter to be put in place. Our society is humane and fully justified by the desire of new authorities to improve conditions in criminal and correctional institutions. On the other hand, it is incomprehensible that the behaviour of certain groups of convicts, that their dissatisfaction with the conditions in criminal and correctional institutions, is manifested in a destructive swing, and that in the burning of objects, property and so on, as bad conditions say, makes it even worse. It's not humane...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u369	I'm asking you to take care of the weather.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u370	This is not humane to themselves, and especially to other convicts and citizens of Serbia, who will have to allocate additional financial resources to repair the destroyed facilities. For exceptional reasons, I believe that the law on amnesty should be withdrawn, that it should be completed, and until then that the convicted persons, depending on the crimes they have committed, are reduced by the existing rules. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u371	The People's Messenger Vladimir Garčević has the word, and then the People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic. There are eight other registered speakers.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u372	Dear President, honourable justice ministers, honourable MPs, I am taking this opportunity to express in one part my dissatisfaction that the Serbian government did not at first put important questions for the work and life of Serbian citizens, and this is about the next. So, number one, Bujanovac, Presevo, Medvedja and what the Serbian government has established as the basis, to come here before us MPs, let's look, let's see, in the extreme case we suggest and realize together. Secondly, questions, and I'm obliged to say that, educators who are partly on strike. There's no explanation who's under obligation to settle the hot December meals, who's in charge...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u373	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u374	Who's in charge? Is it a municipality or a government? I ask the Minister to help us, since they are not the Minister of Finance and the Minister of Education here, that we be given a very quick answer to that question, so as not to have unwanted consequences. Now I'm going to move on to this part. I take amnesty as an act after a certain time, when people realize in prison that a certain punishment has a positive fact on them, when it's working with them, when that punishment becomes something insightful in people themselves. Such amnesty I would always support. The question that was given here and the explanation of amnesty, I don't think it's lying, and I'm going to tell you specifically. Prison in Sremska Mitrovica, I had the chance to hold lessons there sometimes, to train prisoners, to study high school, that when they got out of that prison they could continue and work. They may have problems with employment because in our society their acceptance has not yet been resolved. Secondly, I would ask a concrete question, is amnesty referring to those who set fire to the prison in Sremska Mitrovica, to those who organized it, and how it came to be mobile, and to everything that followed that part. What a shame, because there were prisoners who did the extra work and they couldn't qualify for this amnesty law. One more thing, I have to ask this meeting here, the area of Srema, a raped girl, and it doesn't matter that she's more than 14 years old, because she's someone's sister, someone's mother, and then she's burned and dumped in the trash. According to some of our knowledge, you don't know who the convict is, but I'm asking if the punishment will apply to him, too, because it's one of the most serious crimes that's happened in Sreme lately. I think we should single out and nuance everything that applies to fornication towards mothers, women, not to talk about children, because there are no boundaries for years, whether 14 or 15 years. It's a small difference, it's a child at 15 and 16 and it's not mentally and emotionally mature. Let's protect ourselves, and let the criminal bear the consequences and think until it comes to that. It's in those hardest parts. I see the number of prisoners here 4,000 and something, and it was in the means of informing a larger number, and I wonder how they disappeared overnight. I want to say the following, and I ask our minister, that more about judging and making statements - I will condemn, condemn - to stop with this in the means of public information. Let this rule of law and this authority act according to the law, we will be very pleased. It would be good to interrupt the calls to the lynch, which we had in one of the happy areas. In that sense, all that would go towards the parts of easing punishment through one period of time for me can personally be acceptable, but such a law, so the addition of the law under pressure, I don't think it's good and it's necessary to consider what is proposed in this assembly.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u375	The People's Messenger Zoran Nikolic has the word, and the People's Messenger Branko Ruzic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u376	I would like to say a few words about this law. Before I specifically move on to the law, I can say that this is the only item of the agenda in today's session that establishes some rights. By all other points, these rights are either restricted, either shut down, or abolished, even some decisions by the previous assembly are put out of force. In that sense, considering this bill is a kind of refreshment. I have to say that I play for this speaker in a double role specifically related to this law, because I was a Justice Commissioner in the transitional government of Serbia when there were relentless events in our prison institutions, when there was a prison riot, there was a great burning and a threat to people's lives. This is exactly the kind of rebellion that has been initiated by the passing of this law. I would just like to say that this transitional government and the Ministry of Justice, by no act of its own, by any gesture, by any statement, by any single one by the commissioner of justice, or collectively, has prejudged a solution to this law, nor has it promised any rights in it. So this government was now free to regulate the amnesty policy in the way it believes to be the most comprehensive. Whether it is done or not, I think it will show the effects after the adoption of this law, because there is no doubt that Parliament will adopt it, and here I am somewhat insecure because this law solves conflicted interests. On the one hand, it should protect those basic values on which each state rests, it's public morality, it's freedom, life and integrity that have been attacked by perpetrators of criminal acts. On the other hand, we have the interests and dignity of the victims and their families. On the third hand, this law somehow needs to resolve one particular interest and one very bad condition that is in our prison institutions. That condition is appropriate, but I wouldn't say it's healed. That is why it is very important that every performance behind this speaker is based on facts, and I would like to pave the way for Mr. counterpart Batic to say that the basic reason for the adoption of this law is the situation inherited by the old regime, and the other thing, that conditions in our prisons are miserable and beneath the dignity of a person, as he says, are similar to those of Middle Ages. It is not true, that I would not convince the MPs of this, Mr. Jojic spoke about it and I agree with him, but I would suggest to Mr. Minister that he see his co-workers from the Ministry once more and conduct talks with some of the foreign citizens who support the sentence in our prison institutions, so they will tell him what the difference is between the conditions for maintaining the sentence in our institutions and their countries of origin. They'll see that the drastic difference in favor of conditions that are incomparably better here is more humane. But the essential conditions for the adoption of this law are in irresponsible statements and false promises by individuals of the DOS order and by the order of some NGOs, who hastily promised amnesty to convicts of Albanian nationality for committed crimes and other acts prescribed by federal law. It was as a reaction to the effect that these other persons, who didn't support the punishment, who are there for the general criminal law, and then they say, if they can, why can't we, too. This has caused arson and destruction of property, and that is why the Justice Ministry has a real problem with putting a number of legally convicted persons on trial. Another essential reason is the way power was taken over on October 5th. I am witnessing a conversation with the prisoners' negotiators, and about the situation in Sremskimitrovar prison when we are told -- gentlemen, you have advocated democracy, and you have burned Parliament, and why don't we set the prison on fire, to point out the same way in our own problems, and they have done so. And finally, this government, both at federal and republican level, lays a great deal on relations with the international community. I belong to a party who also wants to co-operate with the international community, but that co-operation that is based on the Constitution and the law and that will not harm the vital interests of this country and this people. So, I'm not against co-operation with the world, so I'm a little surprised why these acts of mercy, meaning pardon, and at the federal level that will follow, and this pardon law that this assembly will, in full certainty, not put into operation exactly pressure on the international community to improve and do something about our Serbs and the rest of the non-Albanian lives in Cosmet, many of whom do not even know fate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u377	I'm asking you to finish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u378	I would like to remind you that according to the Federal Committee for the Determination of War Crimes in Kosovo and Metohija, it was found, in the Federal Government, that 1,086 people of Serbian and non-Albanian nationality were kidnapped after 10.6.1999, or kidnapped, for which we do not know where they are. In UNMIK courts and UNMIK prisons, 23 Serbs were sentenced to prison sentences of 160 years. Why don't we tell that international community now -- gentlemen, here we are doing acts of mercy towards the convicts here, and we ask you to do the same thing to the Serbs who are trapped in these tapes. Over 100 people of Serbian nationality have also been detained. So, there is room for this government, if it has a good will, to take advantage of all the positive consequences of this law and put it in a function of repairing the position of our Serbs in Kosovo and Metohija.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u379	Word has its people's ambassador Branko Ružić Gentlemen of the People's Parliament, you won't be hungry, don't worry. [[Tossing MPs from the O.R.: Pause.]] The break, according to the Rules of Procedure, will be given an hour and a half, but it doesn't say anything that it has to be at 1:00. I'm asking you to find it in the Rules of Procedure, so I'm gonna give it a break right now.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u380	Dear President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would first of all like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Serbian radicals on the glory of their party. I would refer to this bill of amnesty, very briefly. In this proposal, the Proposer explained that, in line with the developments in society after 5 October, the state is reaching for amnesty as a legal and legitimate means. The proposal also states that he is led and humane in proposing this law. As a socialist and humanist, I certainly support the humanistic principles, which are largely incorporated into our party's programme. However, I believe that the original Amnesty Act is not sufficiently purified by this government amendment and some other amendments to the MPs, and that some of the crimes whose perpetrators, in my opinion, do not deserve to fall under the amnesty of 15%. First of all, I mean criminal acts: rape, anti-natural fornication and fertility or incest. I believe that in these cases it should be guided by humanity, but not by one-way, but also by sacrifice. Especially if, for example, it is considered that, under the Criminal Law of the Republic of Serbia, the punishment for the crime of progeny or incest from 6 months to 3 years is punishable. I believe that the perpetrators of these acts have not wronged the law due to the alleged repression of the former regime, as you say in the explanation, but is largely the pathology of these perpetrators. Amnesty of such perpetrators is in more serious countries, such as Australia, and for any reason possible -- as the proposer here explains again in our bill, significant changes in social, economic and historical opportunities -- only in case, hypothetically, Australian natives of Aboriginals perform a revolution and win power. Also, one of the arguments of the law says -- "respecting the overall circumstances in society, as well as the conditions under which prisoners have endured their sentences, especially at the time of NATO aggression", so this "especially at NATO's time of aggression" points out, "in a period of economic sanctions against our country etc."This attitude shows that the proponent applies the policy of double standards, because NATO aggression is a good reason to pass the Law on Amnesty, but it is never mentioned by the new government in contact with the international factors it negotiates. It is usually crossed into air intervention or even humanitarian intervention. When, gentlemen, you are so concerned about the situation in which the prisoners served their sentences during NATOaggression, why didn't you take the opportunity last week to at least bring in the justice of that signator of the NATO aggression decision, and you took it to Belgrade. Of course, we all know who this is, that's Mr. Javier Solana. In this regard, the argument, in my opinion, is really thin for you and I am sure that the people of Serbia condemns this approach. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u381	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u382	Mr. President, in view of article 83. The Rules of Procedure, which clearly states that "Sessions of the National Assembly are held between 10 and 17 hours, with a break of 1 hour and 30 minutes, if the National Assembly, exclusively for certain days, decides otherwise. The decision is, as a rule, at the beginning of the working day." We didn't make that decision at the beginning of the day. It's common for a break from 13 to 14:30. If you have decided otherwise, you should inform us, but I also warn you of Article 97, where it says that the "President of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly when it determines the lack of quorum", which is probably not the case. - Further "can set a break in the work of the National Assembly, in order to carry out the necessary consultations or obtain an opinion". Paragraph 3 states that "the president of the National Assembly interrupts the work of the National Assembly and in other cases, if that is the conclusion of the National Assembly". Please, given that today is our cross glory of the Three Gerards, to allow us to go from 13 to 14:30 to the headquarters of our party and cut the cake.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u383	As for celebrating your baptism, with the congratulations you have on my part, it has nothing to do with, of course, the Rules of Procedure. You pointed out the violation of the Rules of Procedure, and you read what it says. I can only say that I fully agree with you that there were no violations of the Rules of Procedure. So it doesn't say that the break is from 13 to 14:30. You say it's common. It doesn't usually change with decisions. So, something that's common, it can be, and it doesn't have to mean. So there'll be an hour-and-a-half break. We will decide whether we will stop working at 17.00 hours or continue to work, we will make this session, depending on the number of members of the public who are registered for discussion and depending on the course of the session. Therefore, we have time for all of this. The break will be given. There are seven other speakers reported. Do you agree that we have found that the Rules of Procedure has not been broken or that you are asking for it to be put to the vote?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u384	I, Mr. President, have also suggested to you and the MPs that you have the understanding of the need for an SRS MP to be in this time, so that we can honor the ceremony of cutting cakes and celebrating our Christian glory. I don't see that something is disturbing the work of the Assembly -- whether we're going to have a break from 13.00 to 14.30 or from 16:00 to 1700 hours, or how long we're going to work is obviously uncertain. So it's a matter of your goodwill. Clearly, Christian festivals and customs are not close to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u385	We'll end up with two other announced speakers. The word is Dusan Cvetkovic, a National MP.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u386	Dear President, ladies and gentlemen of the vice presidents, colleagues and fellow MPs, respected members of the government, it may not be common for people of engineering professions to talk about the bill, but it seems to me that this is still a subject to be discussed both civil and folk and peasant, as ordinary mortals experience this law. The fact is that this bill has caused heated debates on all levels and environments, and it is good that the government has responded to great pressures and removed the most serious and inhumane crimes from the proposal, if they can thus be characterized at all. But it seems, however, that amnesty also needs to be excluded from rape, anti-natural fornication and genealogy, because these acts almost equally insult moral values and leave serious health consequences and further development of the damaged. Starting with what he said about "Politics" the other day, the deputy head of the Democratic Centre, the prominent writer, Mr Desimir Tosic, quoted me as saying, " MPs in parliament must learn to talk about problems," I am doing exactly that. On these issues, we should not be divided partyically, because these are significant problems and positions and opposition. I'm sure DOS position in this amnesty law has been given to a lot of supporters because they are fulfilling the promises of the October revolution and thus taking advantage of us socialists. But the difference should remain only that she has gained an advantage. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before you raise your hand to the Amnesty Act, consider whether it is necessary to amnesty rape, genealogy or anti-natural fornication, as proposed. I think that these crimes should also be excluded from the Amnesty Act in order to preserve the dignity and reputation of our youth and of our Serb being in general. Now I would like to make a personal dilemma, as well as a question for the minister, Mr Batic. Is this law also envisioning the amnesty of what Mr. Solana did on the second day of Easter, April 12, 1999, when he ordered the rocketing of the train in the Gredile ravine? We who were ten minutes after that on the stove, excuse me for saying, there are television and photo recordings of pilot and command conversations, an agreement on how to hit an international train on the Belgrade-Salun route, so whether Mr. Solano will catch this amnesty, and he has ordered that this train be shot, in which it was not only killed, but burned by the trails left by 20 young people, and that's what's going on today as missing. Did Mr. Ministers, by your order or order of another minister of rapid speed, remove traces of wagons that were to be placed on the postament by SO Leskovac and serve as a warning to the world and the people that this happened on the bridge in the Gredile ravine? I ask you to consider this engineering attempt to at least contribute a little bit to the improvement of this legal proposal as merely a desire to help individuals and their families, but primarily to damaged persons who suffer immeasurably because of the evil that has been done to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u387	The word has the People's MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u388	The Honorable Presidency, honourable MPs, to give the arm of a fallen man and try to get him out of an ambience that he fell into in one of his unfortunate seconds is indeed both human and human. As a socialist, I'd probably always do it, and I don't think a single morale man sitting here wouldn't do it. But I wouldn't have thought too much about this law if I hadn't had one meeting on February 6th on the street in Novi Sad, where an old lady was going to meet me and she asked me to ask me a question. She said, "Son, does anyone have to talk in the Assembly about us, about the unhappy families, about the destroyed childhood, about the destroyed youth of a raped child?" I just said, "She's got a mother." Everyone's gone their separate ways. Me, thinking one way, and her the other way. Indeed, I wonder if we can bring those who have committed some wrongdoing into the same plane. Did someone who took God's right into their own hands and purposely, therefore with premeditation, take someone's life or commit rape, we can put in the same plane with someone who's really at some point constrained incompetence, in effect, did something. I don't think so. It's a good proposal that's been made in the light of the amendment, that some very, very serious crime be excluded from this. But one event last week made me think about this law in another way. Let me ask myself if this law also serves as a ticket for a more morbid performance in the next period, that this is an open valve, through which much greater injustice will leak. Namely, we know what's going on. That last week is one of the biggest criminals in the last period, and that's the one who ordered this country to be destroyed, to kill people, to destroy objects, and worse still, not to pollute, but to poison this country, with the inexplicable consequences that we're going to have. Who knows what's next to the plutonium and the impoverished uranium of enriched bombs dumped here? We are witnessing all these climate changes and who knows what will happen to us next. Is it also a kind of open door that such crimes are also amnesty? A man who needed to be spit out, and despite all the culture we have, on our hands, on bloody hands for what he did, we wanted to kiss them like a priest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u389	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I'm taking a break of one-and-a-half hours. I'll see you here in ten to 15 hours, let's get back to work. I would like to inform you that a session of the Justice and Administration Committee will be held in the break room on the second floor and a session of the Committee on Finance in the Fourth Floor. [[After a break.]] Please, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, let's establish a quorum and get on with our work. Please insert your cards to determine the quorum (we have a quorum). Please continue your work. Before we continue the search, I would suggest we make a decision to continue work for more than 17 hours. I suggest we continue our work today until 20 hours, and just before that time we make a new decision, depending on the course of this session. Since we have determined the quorum, please join the vote on this proposal, it means that we continue to work until 20 hours, and then we will make one more decision on the possible continuation of work after that time. Please vote using taster. For 106, against 26, with two abstentions, not 17, 151 MPs voted in total. I realize we agreed to work until 20 hours, and then make a new decision on the length of work at today's session. We continue to search the bill in principle. The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u391	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, first of all, I would like to express my satisfaction that we have finally begun the session, after half an hour the chairman managed to secure the quorum. At the same time as I talk about the Amnesty Law proposal, as Minister Batic also returned, we should certainly remind ourselves of the fact that the Third Extraordinary Session, so, next to.... and the election of a new republican government, is not attended by the republican prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, and the very fact and overall behaviour of DOS MPs during the afternoon debate, the discussion of this very important bill, says much that you are weeded into your MPs' chairs, that a carefree smile on your face is floating all the time and that you certainly don't care about what is being said here, or how Serbian citizens will react to all your moves. The position of the Serbian Radical Party (to move, seeing as you are impatient, on the bill) to vote for the Amnesty Bill was very detailedly explained by Serbian radicals in the morning session, and it is primarily motivated by the fact that these are human reasons, human society relations towards those who are condemned, primarily by the desire to have part of their responsibility for the works done amnesty. And the fact that this morning, addressing us, Minister Batic said that some fama had been created that everyone would now get out of prison, so not all, Mr Batic, but those who will qualify under this law and who have the possibility of being punished so far and based on the rest of the work, but in the context of this percentage provided by law. And of course, we are absolutely in agreement with the fact that this amendment was needed, that the amnesty is exempt from the face of justice convicted of the crime of rape, the anti-natural fornication of an powerless person and of those who did not turn 14. But first of all, we need to remind ourselves how the amendment occurred. So as not to lead the public astray, lest you throw the dust in your eyes, if you were flat, to the insistence of the minister, etc. and individual members of the Committee, came to that idea and proposed this amendment, certainly all of us need to bear in mind that it was primarily under the pressure of part of the prisoners and it proved that the code of the prisoners, the moral code, was much greater than the new Serbian government. On the other hand, it has been shown that, given the fact that you did not, at least with a small part of your conscience, react to what the Serbian radicals told you, that in this way you want to amnestize the Cypriot terrorists for all the crimes they committed under our laws, so that you have amnested the killer who returned to the scene of the crime, Javier Solana, hugging and kissing with him the other day here in Belgrade, you have actually shown that your policy and concern, above all for the Serbian people and the Serbian national interest, is expressed through this bill. I am absolutely convinced that you were in a position to amnesty Nada Shakic after World War II to do so. After seven years, Mr Batic brought that unfortunate hohstupler Milan Panic back into our country, in a well-known way, along with long and short pipes, into Galennik, and in the context of the Law on Amnesty, that this same Milan Panic, without such a law, means in his own hands, because that nature, obviously as your whole, has amnested from the crime of the notorious Manda, a Ustasha criminal, who killed so many Serbian children and so many Serbian people, who were otherwise welcomed by Ustashas as a hero. At the same time, Serbian patriots, as we, the Serbian radicals, are talking to a mockery, and Minister Batic is really very unconvincing to say that some false patriots are sitting here. If that wasn't the case, Mr. Batic, you should know that you are the Minister of the Government of Mr. Djindjic, whom someone would first of all by new law amnesty. Who will amnest Mr. Djindjic, who is not here today or because the Americans on a court visit to Washington have turned their hands on his back and made it clear that there is no green light to solve the situation in southern Serbia and because not only Djindjic's overall behaviour, but all ministers in the newly elected DOS government, we are in a situation that we will only feel the great consequences of all this. Mr Batic, addressing the MPs this morning, said the government would not accept any blackmail and ultimatums. You probably meant those prisoners and those who have yet to go on a sentence, but that's just not true. You accept all the ultimatums and all the blackmails that come to you from your Western employers. Every day you show an increasing degree of service and who can you convince that you will not accept such a thing? Then you said that you would not be favored by the escalation of crime in our country, that you would apply the new criminal law in the Republic of Serbia right now as effectively as you can. But that's simply not true, because in that folk's case, you look at the first of your ranks, and then you talk about the degree of crime that those who have yet to respond, to support the legal penalties for burning down the National Assembly building, to carry out a coup in our country and against the constitutional, above all, undemocratic behavior, showed what the nature of this government is. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u392	Are we gonna keep working or are we gonna do this on committees? I ask the People's Messengers to remember, as well as those who are behind the pay phone, that those who are behind the pay phone should not abuse their time and that they should stick to the Rules of Procedure and stick to the subject, but also to let the MPs know that the chairman is the one who warns the speaker. The People's Messenger Đura Lazic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Toma Busetic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u393	The Honorable President, members of the presidency, respected fellow MPs and members of the government, the Amnesty Act is indeed a human gesture, but in my opinion only in one part, in the case of crimes committed from indiscretion and minor crimes. Such a bill, I would like to support such an area, but I would not agree with the amnesty of perpetrators of serious crimes, because this law respects the interests of perpetrators of criminal acts, but ignores victims of crimes and members of their families. As humans, we have to keep in mind both, and that's why I'm not here to amnesty the perpetrators of serious crimes. I'm asking all of you if we can, as men, amnest the perpetrators of serious crimes, say in Klecka, the site of the destruction of the most monstrosity of the most monstrosity crimes of the Ship's terrorists and murderers. In that disaster at the last session, a colleague, Maravić, mentioned nine-year-old John, and her father and mother were bound by murderers, raped in their eyes, exulted, and then three of them, and all the others who were there, slaughtered and burned. Can we amnesty the Ship's murderers who butchered the Serbs and threw the corpses into the Radonjska lake? Can we amnesty the murderers in the Kacanic, the testimony of these terrible human weeks, which exceed the atrocities, because the beast kills the victim and eats, and this is harder than the atrocities, the testimony of that atrocities was given by a woman from Australia in the book "I Was In Kosovo". In the old Cachanic, they bound the father, the man and the host of the house, and 30 terrorists, the villains, raped his daughter and wife. I apologize for the vulgarity, but in order to present the image, the wet limbs after the rape were wiped off about his face. Are we going to amnesty a lot of bad guys like that? We seem to have begun to amnesty without the law of the greatest villains since World War II, who took us to thousands of innocent victims, who destroyed our country. Clinton said in one euphoria -- I will do everything to kill Serbs alive, and the dead to raise and that promise is unfortunately fulfilled by throwing rockets at Orthodox cemetery in Pristina, when the bones of the dead Serbs flew to the cemetery in Gjilan. I also wonder as a man if we can and do we want to amneste terrorists, murderers in southern Serbia, who are already on several occasions killing Serb police officers...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u394	Please be sure and when you are wondering about the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u395	Mr. President, I think this is the agenda, too, because it's about the Amnesty Act. All these acts, Mr. Batic, happen in Serbia's territory and every amnesty, given that even without the law, some amnesty is indeed terrible. (Vladan Batic from the site: It does not apply to Milosevic this amnesty. I didn't say either. If negotiations are expected with a delegation of Albanians in southern Serbia, which will certainly include leaders of terrorists and murderers, with the acceptance of the act of talks seems to have been amnesty, but therefore criminal and criminal charges against Serbs who protested because they are being prevented from reaching their homes on the Kosovo Sea. They're guilty because they're rebelling, because they need someone to keep quiet while terrorists kill them and take away their home.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u396	The People's Messenger Toma Busetic has the word, and then the Messenger of the people is Sreten Mitrovica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u397	Dear President, honourable fellow MPs, are the high expectations of Hans Hackerup, the new administrator in Kosovo and Metohija and a number of European forums that have so widely "supported" us over the past ten years, of course, under the quote, to pass these laws, of course primarily federal law, but also this republican, which is in some way the predecessor. Why? Because it's necessary to amnesty by the Shyptarian terrorists from the crimes committed. It's almost incredible, but it's true that DOS is preparing to amnesty for all the Cypriot criminals who have committed numerous crimes against Serbian lives. But we should not be surprised if we know that somewhere in 1991 and 1992, a large group, the current DOS political party, constantly mourned the fate of Muslims and Croats, and no kind word, any comforting word for numerous Serbian deaths. That's true. From the O.R., "Close the monkeys in a cage." )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u398	I'm asking you not to interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u399	Whether the new DOS government will amnesty and NATO criminals, who bombed us for 78 days, bombed poor uranium, its radioactive isotopes, plutonium and all that can cause a major ecological disaster. Almost all of Europe today knows that we were a polygon for a new kind of war, a total chemical war. Bombing chemical plants and... (President: Please stick to the agenda, it's really exaggerated here. )......................................................................................................... The aggressor poisoned us, and it keeps doing it with its own chemical substances. When it comes to this law, I would especially like to point out that you should not strictly prescribe everything that has been given in the West. You know, it's good to copy the West when it comes to economic development, social development, when it comes to the competition. But all that the West brings to developing countries, countries around us, is violence, crime and drug abuse. That's what the West brings us. So let's not copy the West into all this. Well, don't throw it away, it doesn't make sense to keep this up. What I'm trying to say, and we need to take care of what the West brings us. (A voice from the O.R.: "What does that have to do with the law? ") There is, there isn't, because you want to amnesty criminals. The West's message is very clear, so Karl Bilt said these days that Serbia must be restrained when it comes to Albanian provocations and that Belgrade must make dignified concessions. Clearly, then, what are the intentions of the West. That's why I'm deeply convinced that everything we've defended has been defended for ten years... (A voice from the O.R.: "What did you defend? ").... very quickly sold out after a few months, and primarily their own state. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u400	The People's Messenger Sreten Mitrovica has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Ljubisa Maravić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u401	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, is well on the human side that we are thinking about liberating those who have sinned against the legal norms of life, but we should also think about those who suffer today and regret what they have done. And they did so by those you will free or mitigate their crimes, as well as by a legal offense for which they are convicted. I speak on behalf of the people of Kosovo and Metohija, who are those whom we shall freed from their hearths, and today he lives in the greatest cadets, without freedom of movement, without personal or property security. I speak on behalf of those who searched outside our building today and prayed that we would do anything to find out about their loved ones. Today we don't mention those who were kidnapped, and the question is, are they still alive? We seek their release, even though we know they are innocent and have done no harm to anyone. They're only closed because they're Serbs and Montenegrins. Based on knowledge, there are still about a hundred camps held by Albanian terrorists, in addition to Bonstil, Mitrovica, Lebanon and Pristina, in which Serb prisoners lie, those who have been kidnapped. Serbs-Montenegrons from Kosovo and Metohija are asking the government of the Republic of Serbia to get an answer from UNMIK and KFOR representatives on what is going on with the prisoners and the kidnappers. What is the fate of Serbian prisoners, because you, too, think of UNMIK and KFOR, are asking that all Albanians, who are imprisoned and who are in prisons in Serbia, return to Kosovo and Metohija and are tried there. Isn't this law, amnesty, brought into that interest, whether it's a legislation that puts today's power or blackmail to help the West, which is now being offered to the Serbian people. Helping those powerful and powerful who bombed us for 78 days to prove their strength. Those who don't listen, a warning with several thousand tons of bombs. We forgot all the horrors we were experiencing, listening to the noises of flying machines coming out and waiting for death to fall on us, on our loved ones. We who survive these horrors must not and cannot forget those who have died. We can't forget the Throat, forget about RTS, Lužana, hospitals, bridges, schools that are NATO forces, in anger, when they couldn't do anything to our security forces, they defined themselves as destroying the Serb civilian population. Faster, without a shred of grief, we receive those who gave orders for it. We have forgotten their sins, which they have committed towards the Serbian people and the Serb civilian population. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u402	The word is from the MP Ljubisa Maravić, followed by MP Zarko Obradovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u403	The respected presidency, respected fellow MPs, as mentioned in the text of the Amnesty Law proposal, aims to adopt the same law at the republic level, as will be done in the federal parliament. The Republic of Montenegro has already passed such a law under its jurisdiction, motivated by the above-mentioned and humane attitude of society towards convicts. Such an attitude is understandable and acceptable, until it offends the victims of those who are about to be amnesty for crimes committed on different grounds. The bill on amnesty states, in Article 1 - "are released from the execution of 25% of the sentence imposed in prison of persons who have been convicted of criminal offences prescribed by the laws of the Republic of Serbia or have been prescribed by the laws of autonomous provinces which have ceased to apply". Just to remind myself that in Kosovo and Metohija, the criminal law of Kosovo applies to our prisoners in prison in Kosovo Mitrovica, in Bonstile and other prisons, if at all, because they are now 13 and are imprisoned in Kosovo Mitrovica, and some of them are convicted and some are still under investigation for 15 months. It is understandable and humane attitude towards prisoners and the intention of society to return to the institutions of the system. However, what about the application of temporary measures so that it does not get into prison frameworks if everything is taken completely rationally and the act is ignored. How to look into the eyes of rape victims, the perpetrators of anti-natural fornication, because we all have mothers, we all have sisters, and most of all, many have daughters. So let's ask ourselves, gentlemen, how would we feel in the skin of those to whom this evil has happened? So I agree with the proposal, Mr. Minister, that persons who have committed anti-natural fornication are exempt from amnesty. We need a healthy young and healthy nation. The Amnesty Act mentions kidnapping, and kidnapping has different motivations. There are material and political motives. Are we going to ignore the kidnapping acts, thinking about whether there's an unexplained account behind them? Please, let's look at the consequences of criminal amnesty of the perpetrators, even if we amnesty with 15% and have legalized her as well. Shall we allow it to encourage the disturbed to continue with the same? If we still mention all the other kidnappings and kidnappings, over 1,300 people whose fate is still unknown, because the system is hermetically closed, and the perpetrators of the kidnapping are not kidnapped, not by a hundred known and of course adequately punished, then the problem is even more complex. Which one of them will amnesty, I wonder? Question for you, Mr. Minister and the Department of Justice, have you and what have you done so far to learn the truth about these kidnapped persons, given that their families are here in front of the Assembly and are looking for an answer to that question? We know that in our prisons there are about 600 prisoners of Albanian nationality and we know that they are convicted by various grounds of the Criminal Law of Serbia. Many of them have already been released home, or returned to Kosovo. The international community has already invested huge money, around 600m to 800m marks for their rehabilitation programme in Kosovo and Metohija. About 200 of them are still in prison based on terrorist activity. We know that federal law does not regulate terrorism, but it is worth mentioning that it is very dangerous for a serious state to forget all the men killed in the territory of Kosovo and Metohija. Will these villains also be given a hand one day over the Serbian people as it was done with Solana. In your opening statement, Mr. Minister, you explained what criminal association means, but does it matter to relatives by which law, whether by republican or federal, will reduce the penalty? How do you explain to the children, Milena, Peter, Angels and Andrei, and who in the name of what will amnesty and release from prison those who killed their fathers, heroes of their country, Mark, Acu, Srdjan and Nebojsa? A list of children who are eager for mothers and fathers is too long and too heavy for our conscience. If we cannot help them specifically, we are obliged to at least adequately punish all those who are guilty, not to point out the full value to them. Humanity, yes, but towards humans. The Law on Amnesty should not adapt the moment and demands of the international community, but should be tailored accordingly to the criminal work of the perpetrator and all for the protection of social morality. Otherwise, the mild formulation of the law will encourage future perpetrators not to have measures in their arrogant behavior. The reasons for the law-making reasons mentions the prisoners' protests, which came out last November. Respecting the overall environment in society, as well as the conditions in which prisoners are, especially during NATO's aggression, the legislator believes the conditions for passing such a law have been met. So the aggression on our country has had far-reaching consequences. We've been hit by aggression by this layer of prisoners' men, and that's why it's necessary to pass this law. I have one more question, Mr. Minister, as well as in what way and by which law and by which law Javier Solana was amnested, who was sentenced to the municipal court council in Belgrade, and he is being welcomed here as a great benefactor. I think it's hypocritical, because we make fun of ourselves, right in the face. We mock our own unborn children. For the first time, like ourselves, we don't know what he did to poor uranium, and this second, unborn children, we don't know how he'll be born, whether he has no hands, legs, fingers, etc. Since such children are born in Kosovo today, we are in grave danger, the whole nation, and the culprit is known. If the guilty don't get punished or amnesty, then it's all our fault. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u404	The word has a National MP, Zarko Obradovic, and after that, MP Hranislav Peric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u405	Dear Presidency, dear fellow MPs, I would like to say three things about this bill of amnesty. First of all, it's a "par iželans" of political law, because political will has been translated into this law. It is political, because it takes more care of the impression that will cause its adoption in the public and less about the public interest, about the protection of morals and moral relations in society. It's political, because it's selective and it takes care of those crimes and the exemption of those crimes that will have a less negative effect in public. That the character of this law is political, the minister also confirmed, as he said the reasons for the law's adoption were political and humanitarian. Political reasons can be understood, but not accepted. As far as these other humanitarian reasons are concerned, I believe that the minister, as minister of justice, should introduce us to how to improve the conditions of life of convicts, if they are as disastrously bad as they were claims, but we have heard from MPs that they are not so bad after all. I'm asking the Justice Department to say that, because this is the Ministry's jurisdiction. In this way, the minister chose the easier way to work. Secondly, this law is politically selective, and this confirms to us the amendment of the Government given after the law has been returned to do so, because the new text has left out crimes, which I will now quote to you: "A promise or an anti-natural fornication over an powerless person, a promise or an anti-natural fornication with a person who did not turn 14" which actually meant that forgiveness of these crimes would not be positively accepted in public. I ask, did the bill also concern other citizens of the Republic of Serbia, victims of the perpetrators, relatives and friends, what about their fate, what about their lives? What is the life of those who have been raped or over whom an anti-natural fornication has been committed, and how will they feel when they see that the perpetrators are released from prison by political will of the DOS before the end of the sentence? What about the relatives of the people who were killed, because the greatest value of every society is a free man and equal to another, and the greatest crime is to take someone's life and freedom? These perpetrators of crime will be the subject of amnesty. Thirdly, in the end, without intending to repeat what my colleagues have said about visiting Solana Belgrade, but one question -- what will Serbian citizens, what will convicts, what they think of our legal order, what they will think of the law, what they will think of the judiciary, what they will think of the law and justice, if the perpetrators of the crimes, in a court case sentenced to 20 years in prison, receive an official visit. This, in practice, amnesties the crime of NATO, or all of those crimes committed at the time of the bombing. This, in practice, admitted to me or not, amnesties all those crimes, not to mention them, because there were many, all those crimes committed against citizens, all those murders, there were over a few thousand people, all those destroyed bridges, factories, hospitals, schools, houses, all these pollutions that happened to us. The perpetrator is also amnested from the use of prohibited weapons, impoverished uranium, etc. By this act, whether I admit it or not, the current government has practically amnested NATO from the murders and other crimes committed and thus determined Serbia's relationship to the West, and unfortunately, fate and our claims for compensation. Our claims for compensation are, to remind you, direct and indirect damage of $50 to $100 billion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u406	The People's Messenger, Hranislav Peric, has the word, and after that, the People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u407	Dear President, Vice-Presidents, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I will try not to repeat the predecessors, because a lot of this has been said today, it is quite said that the Government, that the minister of justice may have an insight into whether this law is well proposed, whether it is trefused or not. The proposed law on amnesty is a very important law, which is not quality and professionally prepared. There was no serious approach to law making and therefore the debate on the law lasts for 4 - 5 hours. If it were well done and the law was seen from all sides, because it has a lot of breadth, we'd probably settle it in a shorter period and we'd be clear by this law. This is what the law suggests in a sentence of 25 - 15% to all convicted people. What does that mean? They're not all convicted of the same actions. And since they were convicted, it was probably the weight, so they got different sentences. In the same principle, this law was to be made, and I don't think today would be a problem. Under this law, it is the same reduction in punishment if neighbours fight over the border and whoever participated in the killing of more Serbs. Do we need new laws when we don't respect any of them right now? Do we again, by this law, execute the order of the West, to let those who served them out of prison, those who needed to bring democracy to an end? Whether drug dealers need them in the same basket, perhaps even such people miss the West so they can poison our young people and bring democracy to the end. That's why I'm proposing to the Minister of Justice that he no longer deals with us and that every day he proposes for The Hague. You are no longer in opposition, your time is running out, Minister. Already, sit down and make a professional and quality law, of interest to Serbia, which will be voted on and voted on by the MPs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u408	The last registered speaker, MP Bozidar Vujic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u409	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, before I say a few sentences about the legal project itself, I cannot help but look back at what the minister of justice, Mr Batic, said about this address on his second date. Those inappropriate words, in my opinion, say the following - Mr Batić, having this assembly, this home, this pay phone, and his calling, said that MPs after this pay phone, the Maltens, can say anything. If it's much from Batic, it's really a lot. I am an MP for the Serbian Radical Party in this assembly since 1993. I tried for that time, with my knowledge and my skill, to appreciate and respect this home, to appreciate voters who voted the SRS, to respect my party who has delegated me, elected me to this assembly and to respect the seriousness, responsibility and dignity of the spoken public words of every MP. I'm more surprised by what Mr. Batic said and I'd like to tell him one thing if I'm allowed to. You, as Minister, Mr. Batic, especially now, must be careful what you say and how much you appreciate this home and how you do it. Since this is about the law on amnesty, normally Mr Batic said it because the correlation between all his spoken and the law on amnesty is seen in the fact that he was pleading for amnesty, he seemed to be pleading for what he was saying from 1993 to 1997. The witnesses are at least 30 DOS MPs here, who were in various parties before they were in the ones they were in. Mr. Batic really said a lot about this pay phone. As far as the legal project itself is concerned, he's been brought in, we have to agree, whether we want it or not, under the press, both from the outside and from the inside. Outside because the pressure from the West to pass this law before the federal law was obvious, and this today's adoption is for that purpose and it serves that purpose. It is obvious that the West teaches democracy to Serbia and Serbia. Is that what you think, gentlemen, that Serbia needs to be taught democracy? As for internal pressures, the foothold in my words is in this, we have witnessed through the press in the last 10 days of very high public interest in the adoption of this law. This interest, in fact, is obviously in strong riots in the KP homes across Serbia, in the responses of NGOs to certain legal improvements that have been made in relation to the first version the government has offered us. Because of all of this, I have a personal position next -- the law is expedient, the law is incomplete, the law is imperfect and inconsistencies in its first version. That's why he suffered from public pressure, and that's how it's done right now. The government is correcting itself. The first proposal was submitted on February 1st, and the amendment on its own proposal brings us on its own law on February 9th. In any case, the passing of this law is driven and forced by other aspects of today's life. First of all, that in one such way, within the framework of institutions and laws, in which this assembly plays a role as a legislative body, we pass a law on amnesty in order to avoid all that is happening to us in the course of partial resolutions. First of all, I think, and you know it, and it's on your conscience, on the release, release of Flora Brovine and thousands of other Flora Brovines. As to why the law should be passed, there is only one answer - the law is, above all, the only act of mercy. In the end, I would also take this opportunity to congratulate all of their radicals, all of their family members, all of the voters of the Serbian Radical Party and sympathisers today's glory, the cross glory of the Radicals of the Holy Tri Jerarch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u410	Afterward, MP Ljubomir Kragovic also applied.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u411	The Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we have before us a bill on amnesty and even a agenda that is very impeccable. I expected that in this session, as part of the agenda, those burning problems affecting Serbian citizens, especially in southern Serbia, would be found. That this government is doing it, and it's slow to see what the bill is like. Some do nothing, some cancel, and those laws that the government makes after a few days alone bring amendments to which it corrects laws. The bill on amnesty, as a human act and act of mercy, needs the assembly to adopt and Serbian radicals will vote for the adoption of this proposal, but I would like to look back on a few points of this law. Liberation moves in percentages from 15 to 25. These percentages are very disputable. If we take for example. The release of one terrorist, Flora Brovine, recently, and permission to walk freely in Serbia, if in the meantime many Ship's terrorists were released, I would increase these percentages. So our citizens for much smaller, negligible minor acts, or crimes they have committed, should be freed even twice. So to increase this percentage to 50. Then I'm afraid this law isn't extorted. Extorted, on the one hand, because there's a condition for the international community on the unconditional release of all Shipatarian terrorists and... (incomprehensible) means, the introduction to something to amnesty all the crimes that have taken place in the last few years in Kosovo and Metohija. Mr. Secretary says - the prisons are full. Probably the reason why Javier Solana wasn't arrested. They had nowhere to put him. This law should then be adopted as soon as possible in order for these prisons to be emptied, and then, next time Mr Javier Solana, this villain, comes to Serbia, he will probably be arrested, and that Mr. Minister will give the order to bring him in. Why could he walk freely when we know he's... You're the minister, you decide. Furthermore, the next drawback of this bill is that there is nothing to do with the question of minors, or juvenile delinquency and what about those convicts. I think it's best to work with minors, to question them, and in some ways to amnesty their crimes. In the end, Mr. Minister, as a long-term lawyer, you probably had a lot of litigation. I also consider this law a personal act of yours. Oh, here's a reason. You've had a lot of litigation, and as I've heard, you haven't won any court dispute. You've charged a lot of favors, so this is what you want your clients to do, not tell your patients, amnesty, and release the bar from this 15% to 25%. They'll be very grateful to you. Thank you, sir.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u412	There are no more registered speakers. Does the Proposer's representative want a final word? (Minister - Not now, but later.) ( ) Since we have concluded a principled search, I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting the Amnesty Bill to the vote in principle. For 144, no one against, abstained 33, did not vote 7, a total of 184 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. The government of the Republic of Serbia submitted to Article 1 of the amendment. The Committee on Justice and Administration and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the Government's amendment has been agreed by the committees responsible, I find that this amendment has become an integral part of the bill's proposal. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Teodora Vlahovic, who withdrew his amendment at the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration. National MP Marijan Risticevic submitted an amendment to Article 7, which he proposed that Article 7a be added after Article 7. At the meeting of the Committee on Justice and Administration, the MP withdrew his amendment. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u413	Ladies and gentlemen Members of the People in Article 7. The bill provides that when an interested person submits an application for amnesty, the public prosecutor may file a complaint within three days. However, it is not precise, and I think this particular article should specify the time limit for resolving the complaint. For what? It will happen that the public prosecutor will file a complaint, and the person who filed the application has the right to amnesty under this article. An appeal was filed by the competent public prosecutor, a complaint will occur, as provided for in this article, delaying the implementation of the Amnesty Decision. It will happen that people will lie in prison even though they have met the conditions to be released on the same day that the solution is reached. Therefore, I propose that this article determines the resolution of the appeal and obliges the senior court, therefore competent, to resolve the appeal within three days, so that the state will not even be in a situation tomorrow to compensate for the damage to a person who, without any legal basis, lies in prison. This could happen if the public prosecutor were to be vain, to file a complaint out of spite, so that both the court and the prosecutor were to detain the appeal and delay the proceedings, which would absolutely have negative consequences for the convict himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u414	If no one answers the word anymore, he has the word Minister Batic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u415	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I would like to thank everyone for their constructive contribution to the proposal of the Republic Government, the Amnesty Law. The very fact that no MP voted against the adoption of this law shows that the government has made the right move and we will try to make it so in the future. What I heard from this pay phone was mostly not about the Amnesty Law proposal, which is another confirmation that the text itself is excellent, that it hits the core and that it is simply what most citizens of this country want, since the composition of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia represents exactly the political will of the citizens of this country. In relation to some remarks, I would like to say that the law on amnesty does not cover minors, and I agree with those findings that in the future, special attention should be paid to the resociation of juvenile delinquents and that the government will indeed take great effort and try to solve the problem of juvenile delinquency in a modern way. I said in the opening statement, and I repeat now, the proposal to pass a law on amnesty is not even in any conflict with the declared goal of the Republic government to fight crime decisively. I repeat once again, amnesty is an act of mercy, amnesty is something that always happens in times of major political change, and I repeat that some have challenged it, that it is encouraged here and the difficult conditions in which those who maintain the sentence of prison in our KPD are. There's been an investigation against the director of RTS, which has nothing to do with the Amnesty Law proposal. In the future, the investigation will be conducted by investigative authorities, judicial authorities, and it is not up to the Republic government to interfere with the work of the judicial authorities, because our goal is to create a free and independent judiciary. All those who have committed crimes will answer, I do not know why Mr Milanovic answers, but it is obvious that in some of his actions and actions there are elements of a crime, as soon as he is in a position to be on the list of indictees. There have been questions -- how the amnesty proposal will be decided by the Kosovo courts, since they are in fact not functioning on most of Kosovo and Metohija territory, but I want to tell you that they are being moved to the territory of Serbia outside Kosovo, means that they are all, not fully, but still functioning. The Municipal Court in Pristina is also mentioned. At my office the other day, I had the president of the Municipal Court in Pristina, who is now in Nis, and they will decide on proposals and applications for amnesty. The question is constantly mentioned here, and it has been done, of course, for political purposes, which I do not dispute, replacement thesis. I repeat that this law does not refer to the amnesty of political delinquents, that it does not refer to the amnesty of persons charged with terrorism, attacks on constitutional arrangements, hostile association. So it does not refer to those crimes against the people and the state, which are covered by federal criminal law, does not, in one word, refer to Albanian separatists and terrorists. I said that on several occasions, I repeat that now. To remove dilemmas, none of these faces were released. There are more than 500 in prisons in Serbia and this amnesty law simply does not cover it, nor does it have anything to do with that category of convicted persons. The question was mentioned, constantly, in southern Serbia. We worry, gentlemen, about southern Serbia. We're trying to correct the years' mistakes of the past regime. In a few days, there's a great chance that this will be done, there'll be a narrow zone of security, the one that creates the biggest problems, from five to one kilometer. It is likely that, in practice, it will be eliminated, which will show a very responsible state and national policy after just a month of its constitution. Even such words are mentioned that we are false patriots, that we were shot here in Serbia. It's just not true. I don't want to repeat the big words about that drained matrix and divide it into patriots and traitors. Patriotism is not measured by words, patriotism is measured by deeds. Patriotism is not your learned lessons from correspondence courses and evening schools. Patriotism is neither a cult nor a wage, patriotism is not a bust in the chest, because those who drill, let them go where they advocated the highest degree of patriotism. Gentlemen, when you talk about patriots and traitors, we have to go back a little bit, because this whole time has been dedicated to replacing thesis, this story. We are not DOS or current democratic options, or democratic authorities in Serbia, responsible for the tragedy that took place in Kosovo. For years, the previous regime as a node has stuck its head in the sand when it comes to Kosovo. Kosovo only remembered before the elections, then Kosovo became the root and cradle, the bottom of its eye vision, an altar in a temple called Serbia. And before and after that, no one remembered Kosovo anymore, so during that time you had the Prime Minister, so you had Parliament Speaker Yusuf Zeinulahi, Ramzi Kolgeti, so you had the president of the refugee government of Kosovo, Bajram Bukoshi. Everything and everything. Who has allowed weapons for years, slowly, of Ship's terrorists -- the past regime. They allowed it, those who were in power, the Republic government. I was, gentlemen, an MP in this assembly in two convocations. I have seven times asked Mr Dragan Tomic, then the president of the republic's parliament, to put the Kosovo issue on the agenda. It has always been rejected, so the parliaments of almost all European countries and the European Parliament have dealt with Kosovo, but never with the Serbian Parliament. Now you're talking about the fate of Kosovo. Let the fate of Kosovo deal with real patriots, and they are in DOS. And finally, some people here have claimed that prisons in Serbia have excellent conditions, in line with European standards, that conditions for maintaining punishment do not undermine people's dignity. Excellent, gentlemen, tell your party friends, recent officials, those against whom they have been brought, or charges will be brought, to be met by extraordinary conditions in prisons in Serbia [[Applause]] [[Employees from the O.R. request permission to copy.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u416	Please, there's no replica. The former regime has been mentioned. You're not the former regime. I'm concluding a review of the draft law in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units (we have the quorum). I'm putting the amnesty bill on vote, in general. For 155, against the 6th abstention of 22, four, a total of 187 MPs were not voted. I find that the National Assembly has adopted most of the votes the Amnesty Act.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u417	Dear Mr. Chairman, I can tell you that you never once warned the Minister in the Government of the Republic of Serbia that he had strayed from the topic and took over the role of both judges and judges. In Article 100. The rules of procedure are said, "If offensive expressions refer to the parliamentary group, the president of the parliamentary group has on behalf of the parliamentary group the right to reply." I understand that you've injured the Rules of Procedure by way of article 100 because you didn't give me your word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u418	He's a fully-quoted member of the Rules of Procedure, but I haven't heard insulting words. That's what this is about, and that's why I said there was no offense, there was no name. It was merely a quote of what was stated in the presentations of certain MPs. There were words, traitors, patriots, and those are not offensive words. It became everyday words and they were addressed to one side, they were only mentioned, as far as I was monitoring Mr. Minister's presentation, they were only quoted and answered. There was no reference by name, there was no denomination of the entire parliamentary group, the regime was mentioned, the former regime, and that was the reason I did not allow the replica. Believe me, if I had found that the MP group, any, offended or offended, I would have given the right to a replica, believe me, I will absolutely do it. Are you satisfied with the explanation? We move to item 2 of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law on Amendments and SUPPLIES OF THE LAW ON YOUR THEIR TRANSFORMATION You have received a bill submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received amendments submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic on the bill. You have received reports from the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee. At the meeting of the Committee on Finance, the opinion was singled out by MPs Dragan Tomic and Ljubomir Mucic. I'm opening a principled search. Pursuant to Article 92(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest we limit the duration of the presentation and at this point of the agenda to five minutes. Do you suggest shorter time? No, I don't. So we have one proposal, a proposal to limit time to five minutes. Please confirm the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. Please, let's approach the vote. Who's to limit the duration of exposure to five minutes? For 140, against 46, no one with abstention voted 15, a total of 201 MPs were present. I find that we have made a decision to limit the duration of the discussion to five minutes. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u419	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members of Parliament, the Honorable Presidency, Mr. President, privatisation is a very popular topic in these areas. It's been popular since 1989, but until two months ago, the results were really minor. In fact, first of all, I'd like to introduce you to the state of privatisation today in Serbia. By November, we had only 400 companies that came into privatization according to different regulations from 1989 to today, and since November, there has been a fantastic intensive wave of the entry of new businesses into privatisation, so we have over 900 companies today. So everything that has been done in the previous ten years can be measured by a number of 400 companies, and only in the last two months have the new 500 companies entered privatisation. Of course, privatisation was done by the so-called. the inside model, according to the model of free share shares and the majority ownership of workers. Since the DOS in its economic programme has a completely different way of privatising, the privatisation model, we consider it necessary to quickly stop privatisation by so-called. Autonomous transformation model. To more objectively inform the public, this bill today is not a proposal for a new law on privatisation, but rather a proposal on amendments and additions to the existing Law on its own transformation, and the objective of these amendments is primarily to halt privatisation and its transformation, until yesterday, according to the model of autonomous transformation. Under the new privatisation law, we will soon begin a public debate and I hope that in due course, for the longest three months from today, we will have a law in the congregation procedure. Why did we decide to take this step to stop the autonomous transformation? Although the proposals for the previous law have very often pointed out that the privatisation model is socially fair and acceptable for all participants in Serbia's economic life, since the previous law excludes a huge number, an army of unemployed, whom more than a million and a half, excludes young people and therefore, it is easy to conclude that the previous law was written only for the interests of a particular group. That is one, I would say, a political - economic aspect of why the old Privatisation Act must be stopped urgently in the domain of autonomous transformation, but for us from the government are much more important the following two economic aspects. We believe that the internal privatisation model absolutely cannot contribute to privatisation as a means of achieving the goal, and the goal is a different, optimal structure of the market economy and an efficient economy, which we have advocated and what we have promised, and that you could hear in the government programme and in the exhibition of the prime minister at the last session of the National Assembly. The internal privatisation model inevitably leads to closed ownership structures, the internal privatisation model inevitably means closing down businesses and the inability of new investments in the company. Also, the internal privatisation model is causing another additional anomaly, which is secondary traffic action, because by the inside model, we have very often pointed out, there are illusions that workers are given free shares of 400 marks per year of work experience. Each one of them tried to trade those shares, he realized he didn't get 400 marks, but 40 or 80 marks in secondary traffic. That's not so bad, because many have pointed out that capital has no color. It should not be prejudiced against that capital that will appear in the secondary market. We, as economic reformists, absolutely have prejudice, not prejudice, but doubts that these actions will end in the hands of only certain stakeholders. So, interest groups in secondary trading, which in the past also had the opportunity to earn huge amounts of money and to provide the insider privatisation of secondary traffic with the possibility of legalising such money. That is why we believe that our economies do not need financial investors, that our economies need investors from related groups or the same industrial activities, and we call them strategic investors. Whether they're domestic or foreign, we assume they'll dominate foreign investors. This privatisation law model absolutely puts one barrier to any investment that could come from that side. So privatisation is just a means for us to start market reforms, a means for achieving the basic goal, which is to build an optimal economic structure, and ultimately, to come to a strategic goal, which is an efficient economy. Of course, many have pointed out in the public debate, which has been conducted over the past few days, that the passing of such a law will create a kind of lawlessness in this area. That's not true. The law stops further autonomous transformations, has no retroactive fact of the autonomous transformations that have occurred so far, allows companies that were found in the first round of autonomous transformation to complete the first round of transformation. It allows companies that are free to complete the transformation by the end of the second round, but also this law allows the Value Assessment Directorate to carry out its tasks covered by other members of the previous law. These are primarily control jobs, whether the full privatisation procedure is governed by the law and whether there have been procedural or relevant material violations. That's what the Directorate will do in the next period. The law exempts the area relating to transformation with the government's consent from the transformation of those enterprises where the government is the founder. In other words, we will allow the privatisation to begin on the 75 list and start preparing companies, where the government is the founder, and only then to think about privatisation. Why did I tell you to start? Because the list of 75 companies, which was established in 1997, did not start any privatisations and, more importantly, none of the companies started with the necessary restructuring measures in the business and financial domain. We want to do this very quickly and very soon you'll find out that we're starting with the first cases. Our goal, once again to underline, is economic reforms. Economic reforms can be achieved through strategic investment. That is why we will support all those companies that are not on the 75 list and were not originally foreseen by the Government's special programme, that if they have adequate contacts with their partners who are interested in investing in this company, they are doing so in this period until the new law is passed. That's why we put in a special member who's talking about it. What I can finally say is that we will soon come up with the Privatisation Bill, where very soon we will open a public debate with the aim of ensuring a consensus of all interested groups, first of all, that the privatisation law does not enter the parliamentary procedure this time before it comes to you here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u420	Do MPs Dragan Tomic and Ljubomir Mucic, who have issued opinions, want a word? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u421	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, this bill, which stops the application of the Law on Ownership Transformation, has caused heated comments in public these days. And that, above all, in the section of the union's opinion, as well as in the diversity of statements made by the government's representatives on the elements of the future law. What has particularly caused public attention, which is what I would say two details. First, as soon as this law is passed, we will have unequal rights of workers. It is known that 60% of actions are shared under the current law, according to the minister, free of charge, and 400 marks per year of work. According to statements, what should be the concept of the new law is likely to be only 10-15% of such actions shared. If there are some 900 companies, and to say that there are about 100,000 workers in them, what about the other millions of workers, and if we continue this form of privatisation in this part, which is spoken, which is Article 5(1) and (2), then we have no objection to continuing privatisation in these companies, but certainly we are opposed to getting rid of it, in a similar way and the rights of other employees. The second thing is not clear who in the future will determine what is the value of the company, how we will come to it, what about previous estimates in these several thousand companies, whether they will no longer work, whether we have well fed those company workers the Economic Institute, the Faculty of Economics and all these agencies that deal with the value of capital. There is talk of a period necessary for the adoption of a new law. Today we had a chance to see the amendment, where the deadline extends to six months, until the new law was passed. It probably takes enough time to buy, that from the speed that was said to be passed a new law, there's probably nothing. It's something else that matters. The flood of strategic partners is in Serbia these days. The public is not well aware of who these strategic partners the government is negotiating with, and we will probably be familiar with in the coming period. It's about telecommunications, electricity, travel economy, oil economy, brewery, cementers, what's probably the biggest capital of this country. There's something here that's in itself deviating from the objective of this law, which is this: we know that in the last 7.8 years, during the time of sanctions and through NATO aggression, a good part of this enterprise that I've been talking about is damaged by the bombing. What's certainly important, and that's a question for the government and for the future law, is whether we're going to sell these domestic goods and ask for war damage compensation. Because it is known that in these segments, such as telecommunications, electricity, travel economy, oil economy, and the greatest damage. Just to remind you, I guess it's more important that we don't realize that Serbia's television suffered $400m in damage, but it's important that we arrest the former director and judge him for what. One more thing, no one to mention one fact, one detail by the government. It is certainly known that every privatisation produces one serious fact, which is the dismissal of workers from work. I'm asking if the government is going to work on a social programme, what we're going to do with these people, and what's certainly happening now, according to the government's decision, that small businesses, even from the part of the company under a special programme, 75 companies, are all stopped without the prospect of doing more. In this part, it was said that the new law would solve it better. The Fund for the Development of the Republic of Serbia, and 50% for it, and the republican market was right with 25%, and the rest went for the social programme.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u422	Before I give my word to the presidents of the parliamentary groups, do the other representatives or other members appear? Then we'll go in line of application, so Mr. Toma Nikolic, then Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u423	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, this law is the first of the long-awaited system and reform laws to introduce the new government to the citizens of the Republic of Serbia. Due to the law, the Serbian Radical Party also suffered a lot of rebuke by DOS leaders and leaders, because it was proving to the courts in Serbia where the elections were irregular, and then the current prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, cried out that the government was wasting valuable time that it would use to adopt saved Serbian law. The Amnesty Act, which was the first item of the agenda, is a law that brings sympathy, concerns minority citizens and cannot be presented as systemically and therefore this is the first real DOS law. It is both the first and the right. This law stops the autonomous privatisation of social enterprises, the only one that has been done so far, which means that privatisation is stopped. What will bring a stop to privatisation? On the one hand, the possibility for new authorities to remain in power in social enterprises their directors, as the Socialists did, and thus to control employment, financial flows, foreign investments without any obligation. That's what you clearly said in your explanation, and I quote, "The existing administrations want to keep control of the companies." And the easiest way to keep control of businesses is to stop privatisation and make companies as a social target of predators from the country and their partners and financing from abroad. It sounds absurd to explain that employees will gain the majority property free of charge. The employees are no subject, they are dozens, hundreds and thousands of workers, and none of them will be the majority owner. In order for someone to become a majority owner, they must buy the shares from them. The law on its own transformation has been applied for almost four years and many companies have completed the business of property transformation. By this law, you bring economic operators into different conditions of subjugation and that is why Article 57 is injured. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, which reads: Business and other activities are carried out freely and on equal terms in accordance with the Constitution and laws. The state also directly interferes with matters for which the Constitution guarantees companies independence. Article 55 The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia states: The economic and social arrangements are based on the free use of all forms of property, on the single market for goods, labour and capital - and this I have underlined the independence of businesses and all other forms of organisation and acquisition based on property and work. The change of government must not constitute a basis for any discrimination or inequality. There must be legal certainty. If the privatisation so far has not been in accordance with the Constitution, request the cancellation of any conversion of social property into other forms of property. If there were thefts, unreal estimates, cancel privatisation and hand over the criminal court, but don't stop work just for those who haven't finished it for some reason. You're in a bad manner to undo everything that's old without being able to suggest anything new. You don't seem able to exercise power. In no way do I turn from my mind that Minister Vlahovic is directly interested in privatisation, as a job he has made a lot of money on, and will yet. That it's so-called. Economic adviser Zoran Djindjic, a certain Dragas, is the owner of a firm that is yet to acquire positions and profits from privatisation, and therefore visits businesses across Serbia to assess which companies will be able to sell and go to privatisation. He can, because his development path is like Bore Schneider. He hired first as a dealer of the South Bank, then through the Karic Bank, which he wanted to kidnap, and then went to the Kredibel Bank...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u424	I'm asking you to return to your agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u425	When you see all this, you'll apologize to me. The Kredibel bank was operating during a stable dinar, yet it sailed and sailed, and Branko Dragas also ended up abroad. Now he is back in the country and the fight against crime could begin by finally responding to the court, which wants to determine how much his stake in the car import affair, where hundreds of citizens have been robbed and cars have never been returned. Finally, this is the second stop of privatisation directed by Zoran Djindjic and Dusan Mihajlovic, only it was the first time in 1994, when the Socialists were there. After seven years of preparing to take over power, Zoran Djindjic was only able to propose the formal abolition of some laws that will continue to apply who knows when because the government has no time, knowledge, or the consent of countless leaders and leaders and immediately replace them with a new law. I will read to you a portion of the stenographic notes from the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, held on 29 July 1994, which Serbian Radical Party MPs did not attend because seven days earlier in this room and in these benches were physically attacked by police. At that session, on a proposal from the Democratic Party, the draft law on the revaluation of the value of social property was unanimously adopted with retroactive application which returned the privatisation process to the beginning, and all social property was transferred to the hands of the SPS, later JUL, or later dominant JUL. I will now read you the stenographic notes: "The President: The word has Zoran Djindjic. Zoran Djindjic: We have offered you systemic solutions and have made great concessions in accepting all remarks from the government, even if they were not involved. According to our proposal, all citizens are owners. It's the greatest pain of social justice that can exist. We know that in the further development of the economy that will change, some people will stop being owners, some will become owners of larger capital, but at the beginning, at the transition from one system to another, we allow the same chances to all citizens. So social property is the property of society. We're company. I hope Mr. Vucelic is "a replica with him -- "it agrees with the citizens of Serbia as a society. Social property is a property of society, so Serbian citizens. If it is privatized in any way, it means that one who participated as a member of society, ideally, nominally, should participate in this property realistically. It means he gets a real piece of that property. That part could be two thousand, three thousand, five thousand, but that's his share. Selling it and making it available to a government to manipulate that money, it's a robbery." I saw Minister Vlahovic on TV the other night, who announced a law that was being prepared. "We'll sell it, and then we'll give it up to 15% to the employees, and we'll use the rest another way." Zoran Djindjic said seven years ago that the model was a robbery. "Why would something that's mine be sold? "That's what Zoran Djindjic said, not me. I'm advocating the state to the state of all the companies and to sell them. "If you allow social property to be our property, then you must allow it to become our property in the privatisation process, not that you have it again. So, first it was social property, then you sold it to someone with money, and you used that money for some of your own ends. I think it's the ultimate form of social injustice." Demagogy, dishonesty, political points at all costs, one story while in opposition, completely different when you're in power. If it wasn't funny, it would be sad.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u426	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u427	I'm sorry, I had to intervene. Since there's no new privatisation law on the agenda, so I'd like to ask you to concentrate on the legal document that's in front of you. The new law will only come after public procedure and transparent discussion, which we will do with all relevant social groups. Therefore, there is no point in prejudicing the legal solutions that are yet to come.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u428	I know very well that there is no new law on the agenda, but you are already announcing it in public and it is not burning to discuss it here because it is the reason why this law already has a delayed application, that part of autonomous privatisation. But I'm terribly interested in where you're from as a young man, my yearbook, where you're talking about some public debate, about social groups. It died with Cardello. No more public hearings. What kind of public debate is the government having in order to pass some of its laws. The debate is being held in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. This is where the law either passes or doesn't pass. There are no other groups to discuss. You give in to those who have contributed enough to come to power, so as soon as someone rebelles, you stop the law immediately, and you say, "Here, in two or three months, we'll figure it out again." It's not a good principle. It's not a good method. When the law is passed, you know that you will have the resistance of certain groups, of entire social groups of citizens, but you have to clear that up -- either you're passing the law or you're not. There's no point in sending MPs the law, as a part of the agenda, and we get ready, we come to a session, and then you say, because we talked to this and this, this law and its application, we postpone it for three or six months. It creates unseriousness. That's why I insisted that I think it would be much better if you'd explained to us here what kind of privatisation model DOS is proposing. I understand that this privatisation model is not at the will of the DOS. I agree. You're right, you have your own economic program. But it's much more important that I know what's in your will than what's wrong with you. Today by reading the agenda, I find out what you don't like, but I can't get into what you want. There are at least ten counts of a bill from which I can conclude what it is to you and what you stand for. You go public with a bill of law, you get hesitated by some union. You come out with a bill of law, you're wavered by a group. Is that a sign that this law has not been seriously considered? Is that a sign that you've only just now remembered and now you're agreeing on what laws you're going to pass? Well, then, our poor mother.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u429	Mr. Ivkovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u430	Dear Mr. Chairman, I would just like to tell you here in front of everyone that you have allowed the Minister of Justice in the Government of the Republic of Serbia to speak completely and not to have warned him, and that at the same time here, in the highest home of the Republic of Serbia, in parliament, in front of you as President, he has come out of the power of the Justice Minister. But that's what we'll talk about when we talk about the performers of the duty of judicial functions, the addiction of justice, the prosecution and the judiciary. We'll talk about it when it's time, at the 6th or 7th points of the agenda. I expect you'll allow me to speak for 10 minutes, as well as Mr Tomislav Nikolic, unlike the previous performance on the first agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u431	Like a double term, yeah.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u432	As for the public debate, it is certain that it is a good variant and it is possible, it should be said, public consultation. So, it is a good decision by Minister Vlahovic to go to public consultations, because by talking to those who are interested in a certain legal solution, he can find out a lot and it cannot happen to him what happened to him, and to him and the previous legislators, all the legal projects at today's session, which is to make proposals for legal projects, and then the Government of the Republic of Serbia puts amendments, exactly how many amendments there are members in the legal project, i.e., it changes its own legal projects. It's probably the most embarrassing thing anyone can experience that wants to show that they know and can manage the state. Unfortunately, state governance is a very serious thing, and it's well noticed here, there are previous legal solutions being abolished and allowed to apply, and if they are lifted by the time they start to act, some new ones that will eventually be done, or in the case of the Law on their own transformation, the law is abolished and the space of six months is left without action, in a country that needs to get fresh capital, both private and foreign. It is necessary to say about the Law on His own transfiguration, that, essentially, in this country, social property lies in great value. Certainly, it is not an accident that the battle started right there, but it would have been nice and correct from Minister Vlahovic that he pointed out here that it was not by chance the number of enterprises that entered into their own transformation, because that is exactly what happened when, at the insistence of Minister Oscar Kovac, it was agreed that the mark was worth 30 dinars, i.e., that it has real value. Then privatisation, as such, was possible. This huge social property, according to a valid current solution to its own transformation, is the right and benefit of employees, pensioners and agricultural workers. Therefore, this huge social property, according to the current Law on its own transformation, is intended to amount to 60% of capital for all employees, pensioners and farmers. So, one huge population, which created social property by current law, is now seeking, in a good part, to put out force, and it had the right to achieve the benefit of the property it had created. It is not by chance said in this law that this transformation takes place within 5 years. It was said precisely because this country went through what it went through, through the embargo, through aggression. So, through the violent acts of many who are now interested in coming to those places, the poverty of this country and the reduction of the value of social capital. It is therefore a period of 5 years, a period of one recovery, which will allow the right value to be transformed into social capital. What is now trying to do to the amendments that are being given, nothing has changed at the heart of the bill. The law is absolutely against the position of the Federal Constitution and the Republic Constitution. It's enough to say they're injured. From 57 to 64. The Republic Constitution guaranteeing the constitutional right of the company to organise its own business. This law essentially goes towards abolishing internal transformation, popularly speaking internal transformations, but it should be said that if this were to take effect, and unfortunately because of the DOS majority, it is likely that workers in businesses will become hired workers, and I would like to make a popular comparison with insider transformation, because it is abolished, they become total outsiders, and it is our estimate that at least one million people in this country, millions of workers, pensioners and farmers, will remain without their right to free action, because they want to stop the internal or autonomous transformation of enterprises, which, with full rights and full power, has started the moment when the real value of the course of dinar and brand is paid. There's something I want to say about what's been said here at the pay phone very little. Malitically, this law on its own transformation does not take care of young people. For God's sake, poor youngsters, and no one took care of them until the DOS government came to power. Let me tell you right now - this very law, which is now being abolished, and how it took care of young people and unemployed, because it planned 50% of the property transformation funds to go to the Republic of Serbia Development Fund, which is primarily tasked with funding development projects, and our proposal is also projects from small and medium-sized enterprises, and there was 20% of the funding in the Republic Labour Market Office, aimed at overtraining and stimulating the employment of unemployed, and above all young people. On the positive effects on the development of the village, on the chance to create employment of all the structures of the population, especially young and women, not to speak. Therefore, it was not nice here for this speaker, nor in the text of the reasoning of the Law to say it. And now a few words about the future. Of course, I understand as well as you that Minister Vlahovic wants us to discuss only the draft law, that is, the amendment of Cedomir Jovanovic to abolish the autonomous transformation over the next six months, is absolutely abolished, until we welcome the DOS government to prepare how it imagines doing it. I also claim to be denied that a million people will remain in this country without their right to free shares, farmers, pensioners and employees, because we have estimates of going towards allowing 10 to 15% of the shares to be shared by employees in the company, and that everything else goes to the market and that the effect of the bombing and the embargo will be charged by those who funded both the embargo and the bombing. As for Mr. Vlahovic and Diloj Tuš, I looked at the latest website Deloj Tuša and found one interesting thing - experts Diloj Tuša were hired by the Government of the Republic of Serbia on a project to draft a law on ownership transformation that is currently being applied. Experts, along with my colleague and other Branko Djuric, include Mr Aleksandar Vlahovic, Danko Djunic, Milivo Cvetanovic. It's obvious there's a backspread coming true here. So, an accelerant on its own transformation was made, and it is good to see certain problems during its application and to use this fitback to repair the Law on Ownership Transformation. And that the Law on Ownership Transformation is corrected by completely eliminating the possibilities of autonomous transformation, by depriveing workers of the right, and of all pensioners and farmers, who, by their contributions, participated in the creation of social property, the right to free action, that is now a major sign of the question - whether this was a work by order to be done, how the investor wanted or was really a real professional work. Interestingly, Diloj Tuš Yugoslavia is a financial adviser to the international cement producer interested in buying the largest cement company in the country. Also, he was hired by the Government of the Republic of Montenegro, etc. Therefore, when analysing and moving the current government to abolish the Law on its own transformation should think about what they want to do and it is certain that every minister who wants to join the ministry must have a vision - what he thinks to do next. We MPs here, provoking and talking about whether there's a reason to stop the autonomous transformation in six months, we have the right to hear whether there's an actual minister, who's doing it, a vision of what he's thinking of doing in the next six months, so let's do it a little further. We may conclude that this vision is so justified that it has six months to prevent people from going into autonomous transformation. In doing so, everyone needs to know that for this autonomous transformation in almost all businesses there are conditions, because over 2,000 and some estimates of the capital of these companies were made and with the return of the real mark and dinar course, the transformation could absolutely begin, as it began thanks to Professor Oscar Kovac while he was minister in the transitional government of the Republic of Serbia. So I expect here that both we and the public will have the opportunity to hear what a vision is, which are concrete goals for which there is a resonance to do something, which is to stop six months of transformation, because there is a concern that surely over a million people will be left without the right to free shares, just the ones who created those rights and that capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u433	He has the word National MP Branko Gligorić.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u434	Unlike radicals, I took the floor to criticize the government for why, at this stage, the amendment and addition of the Law on its own transformation did not involve social groups, unions, above all. As far as I'm aware, only the Grand Union "Independence" sent a letter to the Serbian Parliament, in which it presents some critical observations related above all to the way these changes were prepared and complemented. No matter how much I know there is no foothold in the Rules of Procedure, I think it would be good if the post-festum were introduced to these remarks. A team before the government avoided meeting with the union in this process, and I don't think the first chance to start with the social dialogue process that this country needs. The Assembly should not enter that trap and, with all the well-meaning of the Government and the speed that this has been prepared, I support that in the next procedure, when preparing the final law on its own transformation, these social and other effects are taken into account.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u435	Thank you. The word is by MP Miroljub Veljkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u436	Mr. Minister, I'll talk about the material, how you insist, which is before us. Dear People's MPs, Mr Djindjic has already become a manor to stop and return to the beginning of property transformation, i.e. privatisation. He did it for the first time with what's-his-name. Ante Markovic's privatisation law. You all remember that a large number of companies at the time, even my colleague Simic bought shares from a company in Vrnjačka Banja, enabled employees to buy shares of the company they worked in. At the initiative of Mr Djindjic, and with the help of the Socialists, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia abolished the Law, and the already privatised companies returned to the status of social firms. It's done so-called. Revaluation of stock value. As hyperinflation was already infused at that time, this method practically brought down all the deposits of workers to zero. My colleague Simic lost the funds he paid when buying the Red Flag section from Vrnjak Banja. What would happen if Mr. Djindjic, with the help of the Socialists, hadn't done this. The workers would buy the shares of their companies. Those stocks would have become external very quickly, so they started to buy and sell, there would have been an imminent grouping of shares in the hands of capital owners, whether domestic or foreign, because they would have bought from workers at market price and the Serbian economy would have been privatised so far, i.e. to own transformation. In fact, there would be cases where a part of the employees would not sell their shares on the external market, but would keep them on the basis of ownership over them to extract certain dividends, depending on the company's financial operations. With this move, Mr Djindjic was damaged by all Serbian employees. Mr Djindjic's argument to abolish the then Privatisation Act (I am talking about Ante Markovic's law) and to revaluation of the value of already purchased shares, was that inflation has devalued the estimated value of these companies and that employees in them for small money will buy their own companies. Right, workers would buy for relatively small money the company they worked for. I wonder what's wrong with that. After all, these same workers created and created these companies. Very quickly, as I said, an effective management structure would be created through an external equity grouping of shares. Look, whoever takes out the money, buys the stock, and in any case, they're going to make sure that this company becomes and how efficient it is, so that he can make a profit out of that company. To be successful, these new owners of capital would well stimulate, or pay employees in these companies. There are no high profits, gentlemen, unless the worker pays well. You don't think the German boss pays the workers well because he's a philanthropist, but he pays to make big profits. The move, Mr Djindjic, has brought inconceivable negative economic consequences to the Serbian economy. First, social property continued to exist as a predominant vision of property. In the coming years, there has been a major robbery and destruction of that property. For example, at the time of the law, at the time of the application of the privatisation law, social property was estimated at some 80 billion marks. According to some analyses, it is now worth about thirty billion marks, and yesterday I read that some DOS expert says it's worth twelve billion. This huge damage to the state and the people, the huge difference between 80 billion and 12 billion should be charged to Mr Djindjic and the Socialists. Another negative consequence of this move is that the privatisation process is not finished in this way, and that was the most painless way compared to all other Eastern European countries. Great social earthquakes would avoid, which inevitably await us in the future in the process of their own transformation. There is also a moral question - I especially refer it to you, socialists, I look at this watch, as if we are preparing for the Olympics, five minutes, and such an important topic - is asking a moral question, and I especially refer it to the Socialists: how did you support Djindjic's law on the revaluation of the value of shares, and you did not revolving the value of apartments and houses, which at the time were massively redeemed? How come you didn't revolving interest on loans, which at the time were massively raised? We all remember that time -- you take a million-mark loan, and after a month or two, you bring back a hundred thousand marks, and then you re-negotiate. We definitely destroyed the spring banking during that period. You and your firms raised those loans under such conditions. On the other hand, you socialists are probably afraid that your working class will get extremely rich. Your socialist's motive was clear - to support Djindjic's law - you needed social property to manipulate and do the other actions you were doing with it. Mr. Djindjic's motive, as Mr. Toma Nikolic said, was second -- he secretly hoped that he would eventually come to power, which unfortunately happened, and that he and his team would be able to privatise, or sell out the Serbian economy. You socialists in 1996 are passing a new law on your own transformation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u437	Mr. Veljkovic, time's up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u438	My time is just coming. Listen to me. So-called... The law was not, as Mr. Minister says, ideal, but better any privatisation than none. We, the Serbian radicals, had many objections to this law, and the basics were that the law must have a binding character and that the law must be armed. In the coming years, the privatisation process was launched, however slowly first, and since 5 October very quickly, speedily, and you know why - because management, means workers in these companies, have instinctively felt what model of privatisation is being prepared by Djindjic's cabinet. People fight to save their own. And what we have now - Mr. Djindjic again stops the privatisation process and puts things back to square one. It is even announced that companies that have already entered the first and second rounds of property transformation will be subject to some revisions, new estimates of the value of capital and that the privatization carried out will be annulled. Apparently, these companies are a little underrated. So what if they're a little bit of an appraisal? If we know that employees of these companies, pensioners and other categories are entitled under the existing law to 60% free shares, and the remaining 40% are entitled to buy them out within five years, with 20% discount, so, Mr. Minister, that Mr. Djindjic's cabinet is also afraid that the working class will not be enriched by accident. Elemental rights are that these workers get the most. Mr. Vlahovic says he is suspending the existing Privatisation Act, as management structures in companies are reportedly going to nick those companies cheaply. Such governance structures in social enterprises are mostly still socialists, and since they are not very popular in the people, you rightly count on people to swallow this easily. So you're using tricks. Mr. Minister would have to say publicly - which social firm did some director or crew round him grab? He won't be able to say it, because there's just no such thing. Shares are free of charge to workers and other categories that they were entitled to. By what technique, Mr. Minister, the director can grab the company in the first and second rounds of ownership transformation? What's the real motive - I didn't know you'd limit it to five minutes, and this is a very important topic, I apologize - what is Mr Djindjic's real motive and the team around him? Why have they suspended the existing law? Clear as the day -- they were afraid they wouldn't have anything left to privatise and sell out, and in that sense, in Belgrade, there's a rumor in the Belgrade charter that your firm, where you're the CEO, will be the exclusive and sole assessor of the Serbian economy. It's a business of about fifty million marks. I say what the charter says, and you deny it. So, you'll be bringing in your law from the beginning. Knowing what kind of law you're preparing for us, because we could read and hear you, what kind of legal project you're preparing for us, I can responsibly argue that from your law on the privatisation of Serbian citizens only... They can win. Now, gentlemen, someone's watching you too. So, you're being watched by Mika Smiljanic and the Union of Serbia. So, gentlemen of the DOS, think carefully, prepare your brain.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u439	Tomislav Nikolic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u440	Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, please invite the president of the National Assembly to give us an explanation - why there is no direct TV transmission since the first mention of Zoran Djindjic. In accordance with Article 169. Rules of Procedure, meetings of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia are public. Since the SRS entered the government of the Republic of Serbia, this - publicly meant direct transfers of sessions of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. If there was a desire to shut down the TV broadcast, it was supposed to happen once this morning with the decision of most DOS to do it, and now, during the session, there's no reason to show up. Zoran Djindjic is still Prime Minister. And when the Prime Minister doesn't, two or three days, play camera music, do whatever you want, but it really doesn't make sense to continue the session unless you inform us - why there's no transmission and who dared to cancel the transfer of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u441	Dear Vice President, I am reporting because the Socialist Party of Serbia has been mentioned several times by the previous speaker. I just want to say, compared to all the countries that are permeated by me in a pesoriatic expression in transition, which are countries of the former eastern bloc, this country has only sold a certain number of percentages in Telekom and nothing more. If the value of capital by some estimates was 80 billion, and now, of course, in addition to the insatiable operation of the international community that went towards impoverishing this country, 32 or 35 billion, we still kept 35 billion marks of value. That is why what Mr Nikolic has now mentioned, we have experienced that the current government is essentially afraid of discussing the abolition of the Law on its transformation and termination of transposition. We will not participate further in the work of the Assembly until a direct transmission is established.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u442	The decision to exclude the public has not been made because it can be made by the National Assembly, and we have not made such a decision. You have a 170. A Rules of Procedure saying: "The representatives of the press and other means of public information, in accordance with the regulations on the internal order of the National Assembly, have free access to the sessions." So we haven't made a decision that the public of work has been disfellowshipped. They have free access. Let's move on. He has the word National MP Slobodan Pavlovic, followed by Marko Culibrk.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u443	Dear Madam Vice-President of the National Assembly, dear colleagues and fellow MPs, I do not know if there is a transfer or not, I will honor the agreement with the head of the parliamentary group and will continue to participate in the work of the Assembly until otherwise we decide. What we are talking about today is only a formal law on amendments to the Law on its own transformation or could be said at first sight, because essentially, with the apology of Mr Vlahovic, nothing personal, is actually an act that failed to suspend and put out of force of the existing law under which the process of property transformation or privatisation has been carried out since 1997, partly successful or less successfully, more successfully, it is all a matter of assessing who is talking about it. Secondly, what I want to say is, the reasons for its adoption, so this act, how they are given in the light of the document itself, and especially as this is explained by the means of public information by the current minister and other government officials, I must say that they do not stand, and most importantly, there are absolutely no reasons why such a legal act or law is brought in a brief procedure or by an urgent procedure, because adoption in this way will cause unnecessary damage to all. Claims that there have been irregularities in the application of the existing law and that there have been favorations, imbalances and that the process of transformation has been accelerated lately are also conditionally correct and cannot be of course the reasons for its adoption. I would also like to mention that, on the contrary, the report on the work of the Ministry of Economic and Property Transformation, which refers to the period after 24 October 2000, shows that these flows were different and that there were absolutely positive results in them. With respect to what I said ahead, I would like to say that there are many reasons why such a law or act of this kind could not be adopted today and which is why the Socialist Party of Serbia's parliamentary group will vote against, and I want to stress three in particular. First, constitutional and legal reasons for its non-proposal, secondly, economic reasons for its non-proposal and, thirdly, the social reasons for its non-proposal. As far as the constitutional and legal aspect is concerned, the constitutional basis of this law has been disputed, comrades in front of me have already been mentioned, injured and violated by Article 64. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and 74th The SRJ constitution, along with those mentioned by them, because these members are defined rights, freedoms, equality, conditions for the creation of companies on the single market, which are clearly being threatened in this way. From an economic point of view, it must be known that the adoption of such a text of law and the suspension of existing companies that have already moved away in the transformation process will cause major material damage. In fact, it must be kept in mind the fact, which was also given in the official report of the Ministry of Property Transformation, that there are about 4,500 companies in our republic concerned by the Law on its own transformation, that so far around 3,700 companies have carried out an assessment of the value of capital and yet nothing personal, but as information, the ministers in the current government and ministers in the previous, transitional government participated in the assessment of the value of capital in the assessment of the current government and then did not disturb the law, of course there was a second position, that in 2,300 cases this assessment was confirmed by the state as well. The Capital Value Assessment Directorate and that the process for around 1,300 is under way. It is certain that many companies, which are damaged by this adoption of the law, will have to seek justice in court. From a social point of view, it is unacceptable, ladies and gentlemen, that in the process of ownership transformation, so as long as it lasts, they violate and confiscate the acquired rights of employees and other citizens and their equality. In fact, the existing law allowed employees and pensioners to privatise up to 50% or more capital through free shares. I'm asking now, so what if it is, and why shouldn't it be, and who has more rights to achieve it? So there are 1,600,000 employees in Serbia, there are 1,300,000 pensioners and there are 850,000 employees in private households who have the right to exercise privatisation rights. So it's a figure of about 3,700,000 employees, pensioners and peasants. The claim that workers are not interested in empty actions, but for only large salaries does not stand. They are also interested in actions and dividends, in decent pay, in a better future, and through ownership transformation they achieve what they have an inalienable right. Unfortunately, Mr. Vlahovic, I fully respect your explanation, the government's intention is obvious, but I'm not going to talk about a new law right now. We will talk about it when you propose, but it is obvious that this move reduces the volume of employee and pensioner participation, introduces a voucher privatisation, which you do not dispute and that in the end a large number of our businesses are sold on the market to strategic partners from abroad, who will take what they need, the workers are fired and I will not say what. So I suggest you withdraw this law, that in six months, as far as you've estimated, you suggest a new, better, more acceptable, and that you would respect all of this that I and other colleagues have talked about.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u444	The word is by MP Marko Culibrk, followed by MP Slobodan Tomovic. In the meantime, I have information, just to tell you, the termination of the transmission program is due to malfunctioning on the RTS devices. I assume it will be removed and the transmission will continue.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u445	Dear People's MPs, although Mr. Minister has said that we should not discuss this bill so much about repealing the Transformation Act, we must discuss this law, because its consequences will be much greater than when we adopt the best law in six months, which could propose this assembly. When we are discussing such an important issue, such as the transformation of social capital or more popular privatisation, we need to know that this is a major political issue and that we must not succumb to politicisation and revote on this issue and that we must come up with a few answers through the debate. And this is how it will bring about an increase in the efficiency of business in the economy, whether human freedoms will be expanded in both economics and political rights, and how all of this will be implemented, to ensure the public in work and transparency. The 1997 law gives workers a majority package of control of their company. We believe that this contributes to increasing the efficiency of business in businesses, because workers know best and have the most information about their business and know what is best for them to do. Then, in the last fifty years, since 1952, when workers were given the management of the factory and the means of working there, workers have often, at the expense of their own personal incomes and personal standards, allocated new machines to new technologies to preserve their businesses, to make them more competitive. Now, unfortunately, someone's taking it away from them. So I believe this stasis will cause great damage to further transformation in our country. It would be much better for the government to keep this law, to arm it, to make it mandatory. And to try to repair the economic environment in our country, which, since October 5th, is unfortunately getting worse and worse. First of all, why don't you bring in a social programme, where you stop a further blow to the living standard of workers and the population, why bring us legislation to speed up our capital and stock market, why you don't want to establish a new business, financial and accounting site. We need to know that social capital transformation is not a magic wand, and that we are not going to solve all economic problems, that in the first phase of social capital transformation, there is going to be a drop in production, that there is going to be a drop in employment, a drop in standard of living. Which is why it did not provide a political consensus for all concerned, and above all the Government, trade unions, chambers of commerce and the professional public, that when this impasse comes, we will all be unique about it, that this process which is inevitable and which must be maintained, that we all support it then. I believe that because of the suspension of the law and the new one is proposed, simply that some groups of individuals or representatives of foreign large-scale capital will come into a crackdown of the best of our companies, which are working well now, and that they will be less declared and liquidated and that workers will be out of work. We have to keep that in mind. Also, it threatens the danger of a bank lobby from abroad, to go through various so-called so-called banks. Experts and agencies, find an interest in themselves, to see their interest here through a variety of estimates of capital. Also, this lobby threatens to allow foreign banks to work here with the population, to collect a few billion marks that still exist in our population, to buy our companies with our money. Unfortunately, that happened in some countries around us. Therefore, I suggest that this law not be passed, that it be disarmed, and that in that time the government bring a new economic environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u446	The word has a National MP Slobodan Tomovic, followed by MP Dragan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u447	Dear Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, the esteemed ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, before I begin my presentation on this item of the agenda, I'd like to establish something together, which I think is notorally correct. It is that there is an obligation to comply with the existing law, all the way up to that point, until the competent authority changes it by making a full decision. I don't think there's anyone in this room who doesn't think so, and I believe that's what the public thinks. It seems that he doesn't think only the respected resolution minister, Mr. Vlahovic, because if he did, he would probably, as a resolute minister, ensure that the existing law is monitored. In Article 48, it reads in point 2: "The ministry shall publish a report on the date of registration and purchase of the actions, within the period from the start of the first and second rounds of transformation and on the results of the transformation, according to the individual rounds of all enterprises in the territory of the Republic of Serbia, which they delivered to the ministry during the reporting period". Mr. Vlahovic, from the moment we elected you, here in this room, it's been so long since you've had to react twice as an elder of the Resort Ministry. You didn't do it. We haven't seen a single daily list of such statements.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u448	You didn't read carefully.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u449	If I'm not, I'll apologize, because if you show me that, I'll take it. If it is, I apologize. If you are not, then allow this objection to be well-intentioned, for you as the elder of that resolution ministry must take care of the resources you are entrusted with. Now I ask you to measure my time for exposure to this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u450	Time is on the clock in front of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u451	There are a number of reasons why I do not think that the amendment and supplementation of the Transformation Act should be adopted. I will list only three, and therefore I will use the explanation given in the statement of the need to adopt this law and especially, to suspend what is called autonomous transformation. So it is said that the current Law on its own transformation has given express advantages to employees in the privatisation process, since free actions can privatise up to 60% of the company's capital, it follows that employees themselves can gain the majority property free of charge. Here's what I want to say about it now. There are many in America, which is many in this hall on various issues model, an association called the ESOP, which is a abbreviations of the E-employee, which means employees, S-sher or actions, O-nobit or property, and P is a program. In this association, gentlemen, membership forms an enterprise that is mostly owned by employees over capital, has 11,500 companies. In these 11,500 companies, 8 million people were employed. The capital of these 11,500 companies is $500 billion, which is about 10 of our gross annual incomes. A thousand such companies, listed on the stock market, and what I'm about to say there, obviously doesn't mind, because some empirical research shows that these companies are more stable than these others. For example, for your information, the stock purchased for these companies grew from 1993 to 1999 by 170%, and the shares bought for these other companies grew by 142%. The growth of social product over one year in these companies is 8-11% higher than in other companies.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u452	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u453	Such companies are less susceptible to what's called bankruptcy. So that's where it goes, and here it doesn't apply. Why? It's possible someone behind that has some intention. So it wouldn't be that I'm reincarnation of that old Greek Ezop, so to speak bass here, I'm telling Mr. Vlahovic to visit the website - htpp. It's him. mceo. O-ergan. And I'm asking you to correct me, because I have to for the sake of time to react, so it's possible and a lapus, but it's a website that you can visit. On that site you can see that what I've been saying is absolutely true and even more than that. The second reason, which has already been discussed by my colleagues, is primarily the violation of the Constitution of the SRJ in Articles 74 and 64, 55 and 57, and that is why we as a parliamentary group are going to ask the Constitutional Court to examine the constitutionality of the adoption of such a law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u454	The word has a folk MP Dragan Todorovic, followed by Jovan Deretic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u455	Mr. President, fellow MPs, I would like to say a few things, first of all, about this bill of amendments and additions to the Law on its own transformation, on the professional side. As a member of the Legislative Committee, I had the opportunity to look at this bill a little earlier, and I have to repeat the finding heard on the Legislative Committee that this, as well as most legislative proposals, was very superficially done, not to say unprofessionally, which confirms that we immediately had Mr Jovanovic's amendment, which said that Articles 1 and 2 were deleted, which were indeed incompatible with the erasure of those provisions and Article 4, which calls for the application of Article 2 to be deleted. Among other things, this tells us about the way the new expert government works, which really needs to work a little harder in future work, not to prepare such drafts of the law, in order to remain expert. I would like to repeat as a lawyer that this bill is incompatible with the provisions of the 74th Federal Constitution, as well as with Articles 55, 57 and 64 of the Republic Constitution - provisions on the independence of enterprises. Elimination of autonomous transformation violates these members, Mr. Minister. I would also comment on the fact that the current Law on its own transformation has led to the fact that the youth, as a category that has been most affected by the ten-year sanctions and the inability of new jobs, as well as the inability to start a family, to acquire a right to dwellings, that, under this law and under this law from the Republic Market Office, about 25% of the funds received by this law on their own transformation, as well as for the Serbia Development Fund, where 50% were allocated. Isn't there a city in Serbia where the construction of apartments didn't begin, and several tens of thousands of young people got their jobs and I was one of the users of these funds. Also, the indisputable fact is that our country needs fresh foreign capital, but until now fresh capital had no obstacle to entering our country, because it could have been carried out through a sphere of capitalization. On the other hand, the fact is that our country was under a lot of pressure and that the ability to operate our businesses was difficult. I also need to look at the proposed way or the name of the transformation so far, to make a little joke, whether the future transformation will be outsider, and to remind ourselves of these sports terms of transformation in Russia, where our Republic Minister also had large stakes in it as Mr. Chubace's advisor, and we know how the property transformation in Russia went. The effects of this transformation should not be commented, nor should its contribution to increasing the productivity of the Russian economy, which is now at the lowest level since its existence. Therefore, without proposing a new law on its own transformation, the existing law should not be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u456	The word has a folk MP Jovan Deretic, followed by Jovan Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u457	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, I'm a little slow, but fine. I think you will all agree with me that the Privatisation Act is essential to Serbia in order to get out of the economic crisis as soon as possible and to get conditions for foreign investment. Here, the Serbian government comes before us with some brief proposal to abolish the Privatisation Act. If we adopt the proposal, Serbia will be the only country in Eastern Europe that will not have a privatisation law. It's better to have bad law than to have no law. Is it possible that the Serbian government was unable to come with its proposal for a privatisation law? For example, up until a few years ago I was the President of the Royal Government, based in America, and we had up to the point the Law on Privatization worked out. Mr Djindjic has been present for 10 years on Serbia's political scene, and where is his privatisation law? Do they not have that proposal or are they waiting for someone to tell them what they're going to do? We're not here to fight on a party basis, we're here to solve the nation's problems, to vote those laws that are the best and why they didn't bring us draft laws to compare them and vote for the one who's better. This motion to abolish the law is contradictory to itself. Here, in Article 5, it reads as follows: All corporate transformation procedures initiated under the provisions of the Custom Transformation Act will continue in accordance with this law and under 1) if, by the date of entry into force of this Act, the company has acted in accordance with Article 10 and Article 42 of Article 1. The law on its own transformation until the end of the first round of transformation. It is said here that only the first round can continue if the company has acted in accordance with the existing law. We believe that this is contrary to the law so far in force because, according to it, the company has made a unique decision on social transformation, which is one decision for both the first and second rounds of property transformation. The public call now declared by the ultimate act is merely a advertising technique, and the law cannot be retroactively applied. We therefore propose to make decisions on their own in-house transformation, which have been properly delivered to the Ministry and the Capital Assessment Directorate, cannot be retroactively done if the new government recognises the Constitution and real democracy, if it recognises the law. In the light of the suspension of the Privatisation Act, it is said here that others, in the absence of effective control, selective information, are preventing other citizens from exercising their rights. Gentlemen, whose duty is to provide information and control. Is this derived from the Privatisation Act or is it the government's duty? Let us be told. We won't be taking much time, because we believe that this proposal to abolish the Privatisation Act should be returned to the government for further work, for correction, and when they have their own draft law, let them then come and give it to us for a vote. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u458	The word is made by MP Jovan Todorovic, and then by the MP Ljubovoje Slavkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u459	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, allow me to keep your attention on a few issues concerning the Government's proposal on amendments to the Transformation Act. I, of course, do not dispute the right of the government to propose such a law here today. It would be much more rational if we had a bill that the government wanted to apply in the future. In fact, here we now have a proposal to abolish the law, in its largest part, because it is known that autonomous transformation refers, as a rule, to small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the largest number in our country. On the other hand, the fact is also that these small and medium-sized enterprises and the most vital part of our Serbian, or republican economy. Hence, the question arises as to why suddenly there is no trust in employees of these companies, who survived sanctions, survived NATO bombings, managed to achieve an appropriate volume of production and services, pay off in gross earnings to employees, and therefore suddenly there is no trust in employees in these companies, who, based on their enrolment, could theoretically become majority owners in these companies. I'm saying-- theoretically, because it's a rare example that workers get to majority capital based on free enrollment. Because, in order for that fact to happen, it takes most workers to have 40 years of employment, that the company exists for at least 40 years, so 40 years, and then according to that, the right to enroll 16 thousand marks per employee, and then, times the number of employees, and we come up with a really rare example that workers come into possession of most of the shares based on free enrolment. It's already been said that if that happens, it's not a problem. What is the problem with people being able to create a company that still works successfully today, which even foreign partners are interested in and that is challenged by the right or doubt of its ability to manage the company in the right and quality way in the future. Another issue that is immediately raised in this same place, why, if it is about the possibility of entering foreign capital, the possibility of strategic partners and the domestic capital market, then why is Article 28 abolished? A law that speaks of the sale of shares in order to raise additional capital. The fact is that the additional capital realised on the basis of the sale of shares remains in the companies. It is also a fact that these amounts of supplementary capital are essentially invalidated by social capital in these companies and thus essentially changes the ownership structure of these companies. Therefore, the question arises why, if we do not already have a new Privatisation Law, why are we stopping these possible processes in the next few months. I don't think that's rational, and we'd have to think about it that way, at least that part of the law, because I know that it's going to be voted here, in a way, left to function. The third thing that comes to me as a question of thought, and I think our minister can think about it, is that it's no problem to get to capital concentration if the securities market comes to life, and then the stock market. By nature of things, it is understandable that a large number of workers will not have the desire to be a businessman, in the sense that there are control or majority action packages in their businesses. They will sell their shares to each other or sell them on the securities market. Those who are interested, whether domestic or foreign natural or legal persons, can buy these actions, based on such purchase, come into possession of a control package of actions, or even majority, and manage those companies for which they are interested. And for their actions, workers will get, even if the reduced amount, therefore which does not correspond to the market value, as said here, and that should be a reason to turn away workers from taking action, will get, even if it is reduced, the corresponding amount of money and will essentially be one fair and fair compensation for past work, which these people have invested in enterprises that are subject to transformation. From there, it seems to me that all those who say that any law is better than none, in the time ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u460	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u461	Just a few more seconds. Also, I'd like to say that a car that's not in its own condition can be hard to sell. Hence, it is a much more important thing to achieve part of our prime minister and Prime Minister Zoran Djindjic's exposé that this government will encourage the development of small and medium-sized enterprises through the opening of appropriate credit lines, domestic or foreign, to enable these companies, to increase their real market value and to privatise, both as a state and as workers in these companies, and as a society in general, even if by any model in the future. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u462	The People's Messenger Radojko Petrić has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Živodarka Dacin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u463	Dear Presidency, honourable Members of the People's Parliament, members of the Government, regarding the draft law on amendments and additions to the Law on your own transformation, which we are considering today, these days we hear frequent statements by the government's responsible representatives that foreign capital should be ensured to enter the company with majority participation. Advocating access to foreign capital to the greatest part should be attracted by the sale of enterprises, where foreigners would become majority owners, globally, except for normal, individual cases, it is difficult to accept. First, Westerners will try to buy for small company money, primarily good companies, well-being enterprises, all below the estimated price, and those prices that our institutions have found to be the right value, as happened in Montenegro. In most cases, workers will be fired with some compensation for a shorter period, to ease protests and not lead to mass social charge. Production will be reduced and imports will be increased for the products to be mounted with us, as already seen in Eastern European countries. The foreign factor will provide itself with the market, with some idea that something is being produced with us. There won't be any rare cases of individual factories being completely shut down, and the sale of finished products from countries where these new owners came from. The suggestive questions of ministers and other government representatives, who are being heard in public these days, whether it is better to be a wealthy worker or a poor stockholder, can be answered by counter-question - where these bosses mass-produced servants. It is true that from the West we need new technology and resources to develop, but should they be provided in the front? The illusion is that only the United States and the European Union guarantee our development. They're actually using capital to impose their interests. He wants to own our market for small money. There are opportunities for co-operation with the West, but not to become completely dependent on them. We should save free access to business co-operation with other countries and regions that we have addressed and with which we have had and with which we should have good co-operation and in the future. Instead of forcing the concept of attracting foreign investment through the sale of enterprises, through majority participation, to ensure co-operation through productive cooperative relations, we provide counter-deliveries of products as a form of payment for their investments and technology. We allow them to start new, but new small and medium-sized enterprises with a majority role. Let's get as much foreign capital as we can through Joey Fencher -- that's a joint investment. This certainly means ensuring economic stability in the country and removing certain obstacles. If there's a big inflation, it's gonna be hard for someone on the side to decide to invest with us. Now they think there's a lot of uncertainty and there's no chance of a high profit on the funds invested. So far, the Law on its own transformation is more disturbing for more innovation workers and applied research, more encouraging the creation of domestic experts. When the company becomes the majority ownership of a foreign company, interest is extinguished and funding for research in domestic enterprises is not provided. Without developing a thought process in companies, there is no progress. The main factor in development is knowledge. It is clear to all of us that we cannot deal with the richest countries in fundamental research, where huge resources are allocated at the state level and whose inventions cannot be applied immediately. However, we cannot neglect applied research in enterprises, where smaller funds are needed and whose knowledge is thus immediately applicable. Without this, only more technology would be lagging behind, and our experts would be educated abroad, with inconceivable consequences for the future of the country. We're not afraid that workers and other citizens when they become company owners will not understand this. They'll figure it out and they'll figure it out. These companies see them as their own and their own. They will realise that the accumulation for financing development and investment must be provided primarily from domestic sources. Dear MPs, when the bill became available to the public, it was seen how they reacted and how the workers reacted. Justified. Workers will not allow their right to be compromised and do not become majority owners of companies with the expectation that the government withdraws the proposal and with a recommendation that the existing law speeds up the process of property transformation and ends in the most part by the end of this year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u464	The word has been given to the People's Messenger, The Life-giving Dacin. Excuse me, before you begin (the president speaks to Ambassador Zivdarka Dacin, who went out for a pay phone) was required to establish the quorum. Just a minute. Please, let's do it then. I ask the MPs to insert their cards. Let's wait a little longer. Have you all set up your cards or should we invite the MPs to come in? We have to wait to see if there's a quorum. Please don't throw it away. We'll work, just to give the MPs a little courtesy. [[jamour.]] Please invite the Members of the People to enter the O.R. Nothing, we'll take a break, so we'll work till morning, I don't mind if it suits you, but you're in a hurry to celebrate, though, so if... You don't have to. We'll wait. I'm sorry, but we have to wait. [[some MPs asking for a break]] Here, we can keep working. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u465	Dear Mr. President, honourable MPs, property transformation is the right and benefit of all employees, pensioners, former workers and citizens. One of the most important definitions of the economic system of transition countries is certainly ownership transformation. It is certain that there is one big concern that there is practically a destruction of an efficient economy, especially if there is a sale of the most basic resource, which is the market, which can result in an efficient economy being minimised or shut down by then. Therefore, the applicable Law on its own transformation should be supported and we suggest this time that it does not stop. There are a number of good sides and advantages that the current law contains within itself, which is to acquire the right to free registration of shares, registration of shares with a discount and without, by employees, pensioners, former workers and citizens, thus obtaining the right to manage and distribute dividends and excludes practically any decision-making option outside the company. The applicable law treats its own transformation practically as a five-year process, which practically protects uncontrolled property structure disorders at the expense of employees by dividing free shares in the first year at 10%, the second and third 20 and fourth and fifth 25%. In this case, it is not expressed the majority antagonism of employees and shareholders, which is characteristic of the capital - the relationship, and the relationship between the management and the management structures is of interest, because the majority right of management belongs to employees. By exercising this right to management, employees retain the possibility of leading social and housing policies, solidarity policies and other types of protection, thus increasing standards and workers and pensioners, in whole articulation, respecting and promoting the interests and needs of employees, pensioners and former workers, which satisfys social justice and consistently respects the principle of past work and real contribution to the company. The ratio of the revolving coefficient and the current rate is extremely favourable and makes the estimated value of the capital in dinars available to employees and provides the possibility of full purchase. The announced changes bring a whole series of disadvantages, observed from the aspect and employees, and from the companies themselves. The first and the basics are that in the beginning they are placed in an unequal position of companies that have entered this transformation and those that have not yet done so. Then a system of vouchers is introduced, meaning that free action, or a discounted or free action is abolished, which brings practically employees in each company into an equal position with a citizen, i.e. The right to stop buying is abolished. The right of the company is completely lost and only comes down to the possibility of initiating a strategic partner. The sale of companies to a strategic partner is being decided by the government, thus repealing the good current possibility of autonomous decision on transformation. By selling the company the impact of the employee is minimised, in fact there is no, which will certainly result in the dismissal of a large number of workers. The impact of employees on the level of earnings is significantly reduced, since capital - the relationship and everything that comes with it involves and the formation of the labour market, which operates on the market principle, and thus the labour price depends primarily on supply and demand on the market. Practically, this means that there will certainly be a reduction in personal incomes in enterprises where they are currently significantly above average, i.e., there will be an average of them, because the safe profit is the primary interest of each owner and each giving must be reduced to a minimum. And what I think is very important is that the possibility of solving housing, social and other issues from various areas of life and the work of employees is completely excluded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u466	There's a word from MP Rada Bajic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u467	Dear President, honourable fellow Members of the People, immediately after obtaining the material, that is, this bill on amendments and additions to the Transformation Act, I have indeed made a great effort to hear the opinion of those who are most interested in this law, and these are workers and trade unions. This could come down to a few basic facts, their opinions, which in fact only confirm mine or upgrade in some segments. First, that suspension is a rash move, which will have significant consequences for the rights of employees, citizens and others, who will participate or have participated in the transformation of property. Secondly, if there were any indications that there were some procedural errors in the matter of property transformation and if there were any discriminatory estimates of capital, these are not at all reasons, nor is there any reasonable reason for the suspension of the Law to be carried out, especially when there are all legal mechanisms that, if there were discriminatory estimates, those documents and put into order. There is also a claim that the current Privatisation Act was in fact one brake to enter foreign capital and foreign investors. That's just not true. All the positive legal regulations so far, first of all, I mean the Company Act, the Foreign Capital Investments Act, simply give the possibility to capitalise, repeat, the recapitalisation that is very important for businesses, for employees and for the state, because the foreign investor will not enter the previously acquired capital, but will simply allow its additional funds to enable the company to operate under much more favourable conditions and become a majority owner. This especially if it is known that a large part of the capital in the first round, so-called. the free circle is not simply exported to the market, i.e. it is not spent and large capital remains in which foreigners can invest. In addition, large capital is invested in the Republic Fund and the Action Fund, and the fund can also serve simply as a commodity on the market, where foreigners and others will be able to participate in its purchase. The obligation to privatise is one issue that is very questionable and that workers have a great deal of skepticism, because this particularly applies to workers who are in a little worse companies, enterprises that are burdened by debts, loss-making companies, who have large unsettled obligations towards creditors and workers. They wonder, since they are not in an equal position and are not brought to the same level with many companies - what will happen to them, whether they will come to them so-called. The speculative capital of a stranger, who's actually going to turn these companies into their infrastructure and their warehouses for some of their goods, and leave the workers out of work? This is mostly because they do not know whether the draft new law will set out stable funds and stable sources of funding for their needs, or for the care of these workers, when they lose their jobs. And finally, one very important question - and we all know that we are a social market economy and that the timing must remain, because one stable enterprise and one unit of local self-government, you all know what it means and how much it means for that unity of local self-government. It not only takes care of workers and their families, but also takes care of all the environment and all the population and local units. It helps sports, sports cults, helps culture, helps pensioners clubs, helps various other organizations, and when a stranger enters that company, he simply will no longer be interested in the environment, sports clubs, or cultures, or the promotion of the environment or the standard of the population living in that local unit. So much and thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u468	The word is by MP Milos Nesovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u469	Dear Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, the honourable members of the government, with their first draft laws sent by the Government to the Parliament for adoption, have shown that in this country and how the future will rule. The draft law amending the Law on Ownership Transformation, in particular the reasons for its adoption, has made it clear to the public how much it cares and how much it respects a large number of employees and the highest category of population. In my review of the proposal submitted, I will come from a given explanation, because it actually best reflects the current and future state and moves of the new government on this very important law. In light of the reasons for amending the existing Law, which has passed the previous, socialist government, the first voiced fear that by applying it, employees in the company could become majority owners. Secondly, in order to make capital concentration difficult and to make it impossible to create efficient and manageable functions, such reasons are not only not acceptable and established but are contrary to the basic logic of privatisation itself. Under the current law, the decision on the need for privatisation is made by employees, and the right to receive free shares and discounted shares has employees, including pensioners, farmers who are insured, who are also unsecured. Is there anything more normal and natural that someone who created that capital becomes the owner of a part of that capital? The alleged concern about the unequal position of youth, unemployed and employees outside the state and social sector is transparent political, I would say arbitrary political assessments, which are clear to the promoter, as it is clear to everyone and logically that one who did not participate in the creation of that capital should not even be able to have that capital. It is further argued in the explanation that the application of the old law makes it difficult to concentrate capital and postpones the possibility of an efficient management structure for a longer period of time. What lies, and I'd say cynicism. It is clear to everyone that employees, as small or small shareholders, through action funds or other forms of organization, are constantly performing a huge concentration of capital and will now as majority owners of the company and how they will take care of efficient management function, the engagement of well-trained and trained managers. It is obvious that the government wants state and social capital to be concentrated on someone else, not those who created it, and who in that case will remain only rent workers in the company. Even more funny are the messages and arguments made by individual leaders and ministers in the media that workers are better off making more money and pay than almost worthless actions. If actions are so worthless, why can't the workers have them in the majority, and who should own them to provide workers with better profits? That's why it's obvious that this bill changes the laws of the workers, loses the farmers as the creators of the capital, and gets powerful individuals. This will be the basic content of a future law announced within six months. So what changes the fundamentally proposed law? The right is abolished only for a moment for autonomous transformation and thus the right of employees to decide on transformation. Since time stands out, I will reduce the discussion and ask the MPs that this bill is not adopted and that for these reasons that I have said, in order to protect the interests of the widest layers of the population, regardless of party membership, understand the dangers of the proposed solutions, respect the opinion not only of most employees and their trade unions, but of the whole public opinion, and that they will not accept the proposed concept of amending the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u470	The People's Messenger Dusan Cvetkovic has the word, and then the People's Messenger Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u471	Dear Presidency, esteemed colleagues and fellow Members of Parliament, allow me to address you in the time allowed, although I know that on my address from the purely DOS party discipline you will remain silent and deaf, and that you "will not understand me" or that you will practically understand me as much as these words spoken in my original-carved dialect - the nettle of Benča dodari loitre vrijeks - but if you, fellow Members and fellow MPs, I will explain to you in the end what it is, you did not understand this "noble" etc. I am sure that the voters and the working people of Jablanic and Pcinjski County from Brestovac to Presevo, as well as Mr. Minister, understood these words of their hazelnut, and that they will understand and understand what else I want to say about the Bill on Amendments and Supplements and the Malten repeal of the Law on their own transformation. That's why I firstly address them, respected voters, workers, youth of southern Serbia, pensioners, peasants, proposed amendments to the Law, it is that only twenty days after the elections, the Government of the Republic of Serbia is trying to abolish the autonomous transformation and privatisation in the existing Law of Privatisation, thereby repealing all your rights, leaving and even expanding the rights of the Government until the adoption of the new law. All companies that have properly started, and in Jablanic and Pcinj County, more than 40 of them have conducted an orderly assessment of capital and thus started the process of property transformation, have only been declared incompetent and incompetent to decide their fate, but the government is not. In addition to the rights she had under the previous law, the law suspending her, she gave herself the right to make a transformation into a company that she subsequently set for herself without any criteria under a specific programme. Doesn't it seem to you, respected Southerners, that this government has just reserved its right for itself to, in this vacuum, until the adoption of a new law, not miss a potentially good chance of fostering a company that it cares about, which was not foreseen in a special programme. If the government really cares about this, as they say in the explanation of the abolition of the autonomous transition, which was not seen by young people and unemployed, it is not entirely true, because they were seen through that part of the sale of shares in the second round, where the labour market would receive 25% of the funds paid, and could be joined by workers, pensioners and peasants and them, so they would not receive 400 German marks per year, but would be likely between 300 and 350. The main reason is that those who have produced these 50 years do not almost receive the average of 8 to 10,000 German marks, how much the value of free shares would be averaged by any employee, pensioner and peasant in southern Serbia, where the average working age is 20 years. Therefore, my esteemed Southerners, raise your vote against the abolition of this law, because by adopting it, you will lose for every year the work of 400 German marks of free shares, which you could very quickly export the paper market of value and sell them when you need them. Of the twenty Jablanic district firms, only "Builder" and "Radan" will be able to complete the privatisation, because they have already started with the first round and the share, and in the Pcinj County only "Simpo", "Jumko" and "Welder". All companies privatized under this law are very successful, so there is no fear of that law. In the end, I call on management from all the companies in my area to explain in a practical and exact way to their workers that the only reason it didn't go to the stock exchange earlier was the estimated course of the German mark of six dinars. If that were the case, please, just listen to me carefully, I'll tell you through the figures, not exactly nameing the company, and Mr. Vlahovic may remember which company is from Leskovec, because the company where he's the CEO of the Deloj shower since July last year, I don't know if I've said it correctly, I've been doing a capital assessment in April 2000 for this company. If the estimated value of the company's capital on 31.12.1997 was 100 million German marks, and of course I speak hypothetically, and the values are a secret, but the relationship will be seen at a rate of 3.3 dinar for one German mark. At the end of 1999, the value of the company would be 118 million German marks, along with the revaluation coefficients applied and the six dinar course. Today, with the corresponding revaluation coefficient, the real rate of the German 30 dinar mark, the value of the company's social capital would be 27 million German marks. This value would now be allocated to this, 2.7 million or 10% of the Trust for Disability and Pension Insurance...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u472	Please, you've been through a lot of time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u473	When this bill is looked at, then it is clear to everyone how many these people and everyone who would buy this company's shares would have been damaged if they had bought shares when the German brand was 3, 3 or 6 dinars. That is why I am now asking at the end and trade unions in all businesses in southern Serbia to do just as the law has been declared in the process of entering the transformation and now say their word in order to protect their rights. If the government's imperative is that a new law on privatisation must be passed, because for God's sake, history always starts with us, then it's only normal and logically legal to respect companies that have reported certified estimates of capital in a commercial court, because they have practically entered the property transformation process. Again, in the woodshed dialect, since we have a fourth degree comparison, a dibidius at the end, respected by my colleagues, the MPs of the DOS if you haven't understood me by now, so you'll be voting for the adoption of the amendments to this law, at least to clarify that sentence from the beginning: Bench's tanning dodaria loitre to the wrinkles, which means, on my pure wood, a little before or yesterday, or the day before, or a dozen, twenty days ago, or a month ago, Mr. Bencha has arranged a car of wood for heating. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u474	The People's Messenger Stanko Kovačević has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Lazar Marjanski.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u475	Dear Mr. President, honourable colleagues and fellow MPs, I think that the government of the Republic of Serbia has made the right move by making a proposal to the National Assembly for adoption, as this will best protect workers' interests and best protect workers from the new robbery, imagined in the centres of the Socialists and the JUL. Why am I saying that? It is precisely that events in the last two months and this kind of resistance of the SPS MPs for this speaker are the best confirmation, because when Mr. SPS, JUL's, and the radicals saw that they were permanently losing power and supporting the people of Serbia, they better-than-better issued orders to their directors to go immediately into privatisation, because it is their last chance to rob something else from this people. It is behind this pay phone, with its commitment to not accepting this law, that is because workers are deeply aware of the fact that 60% of the free shares, which provide them with the previous law on ownership transformation, are not worth anything, because so long as their company is not working and creating a new value, they are not worth anything. The applicant's explanation should have given another component. And that is, if the Serbian government has said, and we are also aware that without investing foreign capital, we have no minimum chance of launching the process of reviving the economy in this country, so it is unlikely that anyone from abroad will come and bring capital to invest it in those companies where existing workers have the majority right to decide. The one who makes the money can't decide anything about it. That's absolutely illogical. That's why this law was to be passed. One more thing, I'm going to criticise the government now, because in the last few days, I don't know why, frightened by the threats of the Socialist Union of Serbia led by Mr Smiljanic, that if the government does not withdraw the law, it will organise a general strike. Well, that socialist union is unable to launch several thousand workers, not let alone several hundred thousand workers, as necessary to seriously threaten the stability of a government. The government made a mistake, because the threat of firing an empty rifle in some way scared her, partially softened her bill. She shouldn't have given up on the general intensities of the bill at all. The red midwife of the working class's interest comes out for this pay phone and shouts, a million workers in Serbia will be left without free shares if this law enters into force. He did not cry out for the interests of millions of workers, he cried out for the interests of management and management structures in the economy, whose head is the socialist, the jurisprudence and some other mobsters, because they know that this law no longer has any chance of continuing the robbery of the people or the working class. Thank you. I'm glad the radicals are applauding. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u476	Mr. Ivkovic's replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u477	I thank Mr. Chairman, who has assessed that I have the right to a replica. I just want to report to the speaker, the predecessor of this speaker, that since October 5th, very few well-being companies where the Socialists are in power, because DOS-ovski crisis headquarters, DOS's Inquisition has taken over power, right where the rich companies are. Let's start with NIS, so I don't talk any further. So, for the record, crisis headquarters sure smelled like going where there's good capital. I just want to say, I think we've cleared up for this speaker, and I expect Mr. Vlahovic to be collegiate with Mr. Oscar Kovac, so he'll confirm that three thousand and some estimates were made, autonomous, and it was because the value of the stamp was on six dinars. The moment the mark's value was determined in its transformation to 30 dinars, then the property transformation began. However, since the charges have been made here and it has been said that someone is defending workers and for no reason to take care of himself, to repeat briefly -- this bill is totally contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from Articles 57 to 64, with the Federal Constitution also, which guarantees full company autonomy. This law abolishes the right of workers, pensioners and farmers to free action and I claim that a million workers, thanks to this law, will be left without the right to free action. When it comes to investing foreign capital, this law right now provides a space for investing foreign capital, but not as seen in the countries of the former Eastern bloc, where the market was bought, closed factories, and workers went to the streets.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u478	The word has a National MP, Stanko Kovacevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u479	Once again, the red concierge comes out for this payphone to take care of the interests of the working class and says that as of October 5th DOS is headed by the best standing companies, and look at today's newspapers and see which companies have gone into the ownership transformation process in the last 10 days and whether any DOS representative is the director of the company. When you were so concerned about the interests of the working class, Mr. Ivkovic, and the message to the president of the Socialist Independent Union, why not organise yourself for three to five years and invite the workers of Serbia to demand a ownership transformation in order to at least have these worthless papers, but you remembered at this time, when you are threatened with the opportunity to have the doors of robbery closed forever. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u480	Mr. Ivkovic has the maximum right to replication.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u481	It should be understanding for those who look at the eyes where the red color dominates, and the state cannot be guided by red paint in the eyes of vanity and desire for revenge. I want to remind those who are in this room, that it was difficult to think about in late 1997, after a conference in Crete, when the organised action in Kosovo and Metohija began, about its transformation. It was hard to think in 1999 about their own transformation, when the aggressors destroyed 18% of this country, I mean production capacities. Imagine what the flag now looks like in Kragujevac, which has been directly bombed and what its own transformation of Petrochemia and Azotara we should talk about, and further about the company "October 14th", there is also Freedom from Chačka, and, my dear gentlemen, the enormous capital has been destroyed and we have been forced to restore the first country, and this aggression has been done for you, so that social tensions are what they are and that you will come to power as easily as possible.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u482	Tomislav Nikolic, go ahead.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u483	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the Serbian Radical Party has not told any director to enter the privatisation process in the last few months, which we have been accused of from this pay phone, and there may be a reason for this accelerated privatisation in the last few months because it has been known that the law has been written by Minister Vlahovic. Then the directors say -- as soon as the minister is a minister now, and he wrote the law, it's certainly a good, fair and fair law, it's a law that will give everyone back what they invested in businesses. I haven't heard of this pay phone, except for the charges of privatization in the last few months, I haven't heard what's going on in that privatisation. It's easy to go out and say here -- we want to stop what's been going on for the last month in our own privatisation. They went into privatization under the law that applies. Now I just want to hear from this pay phone why we should stop privatization, so let a thousand companies have entered the first round in the last month. I'm interested in the reason why, what's being stolen and robbed? If it's under the law and it's done by four companies, which Mr. Minister's company has carried out a capital assessment, and I want to know if he stole the one who did the assessment of the capital and whether the law is such as to suit the theft and will be answered by Minister Vlahovic, who wrote the law. Why does the government stop the privatisation that has been enormous in the last month, probably that it has and I read in the paper that many big firms are publishing an invitation to enroll, but why to stop. Just because this is a form of privatisation, and I guess that's all our goal or because we have a new model? Let's vote here to stop, but what's the new model? You're putting us in a position to vote to stop everything living in the country until you figure out how to get it all going alive. He can't. There's a turn of driving in one country. Every morning, cars must cross the intersection through the traffic lights, and it must also be known whether red light or green light is allowed. Privatisation must be carried out and the law must exist. I repeat, the agenda is absurd, we break the laws and leave them to apply until new laws are passed. This didn't happen even when the Socialists were the worst in this country, it didn't happen, but you managed to bring them in a month's time to worry whether you'd be worse than them or not?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u484	And finally, Mr. Vlahovic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u485	Very briefly, it is true that I participated in the task force, but not to prepare the law, but to create a methodology for assessing the value. I ran that group, and I'm proud of it. As to the reason why we passed this law, or proposed this law, I was very clear - the reasons are not accelerated privatisation, but the concept of privatisation that absolutely does not fit into something called privatisation as a means of economic reform. Please, no one is talking about revoking privatisation, any retroactive measures, but we are talking about the fact that privatisation can't allow us to start economic reforms. There's no free lunch in the economy. When these companies go deeper and deeper, when they start sinking, whether shareholders will take out money they don't have, out of their straws and bring, invest in their company for its restructuring. Please, conceptual internal privatisation cannot ensure the start of economic reforms. Therefore, it is necessary to stop further autonomous transformations, without touching the previously acquired rights.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u486	There is the word of the Messenger of the people, Lazar Marjanski, and after him, the messenger of the people, Petar Jojic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u487	I'd just like to say a few words to this gentleman who was here, who's ex-red, now he's under here, whether there's a thief in DOS or in the SPS, that's your business. Radicals have not given a single director an order to go into transformation, because they simply have only one director in Serbia. Just so you know. I'd like to ask you, Minister, specific questions. I'm interested in the assessment of the capital that was made by the official house that was authorized and has given an estimate that the company is worth 10,000 dinars. The Management Board and the Company Assembly have increased the capital to 12,000 dinars. The solution received from the Directorate was 10 thousand dinars. So I'm asking you, is the solution to the Directorate really important, in the sense that if an audit is carried out, because the company has estimated that the assessment of the capital carried out by the official house is little. I'd like to ask you one more thing, what about the basic assets that didn't go into the percentage of capital, which are assets, for example. companies that worked abroad, so they have the machine and the rest, and the funds that are under trial. We also have other assets that are in court and that can't belong to the firm for a year or two days. Will the revaluation of these funds and of the company take into account that percentage of capital also? I would ask you once again, your vision of a future law on ownership transformation, whether it will be similar to that of Romania, Hungary or something completely new.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u488	The People's MP Petar Jojic has the word. Stevo Dragisic is next.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u489	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, these provisions of the proposed law are making more and more states interfere in the economic flows of enterprises, which will act as planned, as well as in times of communism. It's all been solved once in committees, and now it's going to be solved in DOS centers. Those who have created good and business will not decide. Those who are in power will decide. Someone here will profit, some businessmen will come -- cheaters and mobsters from abroad, who at favourable prices will gain positions and thus obtain capital without any legal basis. This is given to them when proposing and installing the provisions laid down in the proposal for this law. Only 30% of the workers will remain in the firm. They're expert evaluations, and they're your evaluations, and 70% of the workers will be on the streets. They will come to businesses, which ate onion, smelled onion, or plowed or dug, but in a cheap way they will be able to reach capital. It was an environment case, so I think you could learn something from the case of Romania, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Hungary. You'll see that workers are tired of this kind of privatisation. Free shares of workers are abolished, 15% should remain, and the rest should go to market and sell the government. It will be the government that will trade with acquired workers' rights, which they have created. The discussion of the Socialists found it difficult for them to lose the positions and privileges of individuals, thanks to Djindjic's law, which the Socialists had accepted at the time. There is now a sharp struggle between socialists and DOS sheep, who will gain greater privileges in companies that have remained to be transformed. Only the SRS requires privatisation to be carried out exclusively under the Constitution. And what does the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia say? It won't be a dispute, control me, Mr. President. In Article 55. The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia writes: "The economic and social arrangements are based on free use in all forms of property in the single market for goods, labour and capital, on the independence of businesses and all other forms of organisation, on management and acquisition based on property and work, as well as on the rights of employees and the rights of other citizens to social security. The state must ensure equal conditions for interested persons." In Article 64, it is normised in the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, paragraph 3: "Every act and any action that creates or encourages a monopoly position is opposed." In this case, the monopoly position provides for a new government, because it will trade with good workers and thus profit those who are this law and adopt it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u490	The word has a folk MP, Stevo Dragisic, and let the MP of the people be prepared, Stevan Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u491	Ladies and gentlemen, all the parliamentary groups in this assembly agree that privatisation must be done, that it must be done by the end, that this privatisation should have been completed long ago and that privatisation is a prerequisite for the recovery of our economy. There is no significant difference in the views of the parliamentary groups. The difference is how to implement that privatisation. One way in which privatisation was almost brought to an end was restored to the beginning of the mentioned Social Property Revaluation Act, which was privatised in 1994. A new Law on its own transformation was then passed, in which the minister was involved, as he said, that the application of the law would now be suspended. This is the practical consequence of this law that we are discussing today, suspension of the existing Privatisation Act. This means that until the moment of entry into force of this law, privatisation in Serbia will not take place until a new privatisation law is passed. The reasons for the adoption of this law, stated by the minister, i.e. the government, concerns some solutions to the Law on its own transformation. For example, it is said that 60 per cent of the company's capital can be privatised through free shares, which suggests that only employees can obtain the majority property free of charge. It is theoretically possible, but in practice it has been very rarely happening. As far as I know, I am not familiar with any case at all, and I would like the minister to tell me how many businesses in Serbia have been privatised, in which workers have become majority owners based on enrolment of free actions. Furthermore, it is said - in the absence of effective control by selective information in this way, other citizens are prevented from exercising their rights, which is certainly not true. Citizens have the right, have the opportunity to perform free registration of actions in any enterprise in Serbia, but in one company. And so their right to enroll free shares is consumed entirely. Those citizens who are interested, they are normally interested in a particular company. They're interested, say, in Jugopetrol as a profitable company. They might be interested in Hemofarm, they're interested in some other profitable company, and they're waiting for the privatisation of that company they're interested in. And it's mostly companies that either they're personally connected to or someone from their family. The explanation goes on to say, "privatisation under the current law puts young people in an unequal position, unemployed, as well as citizens who are not employed in the state and social sectors", which is also not true. First of all, under the youth, only minor faces can be understood. Underage persons in exceptional situations have rights from working-law relations. And in order for someone to have the right to enter free shares, they must have certain years of work experience. So, minors here aren't denied in any way, because just because they're underage, which doesn't have full business capacity, they can't even get a basic prerequisite to get the right to free registration. On the other hand, all other listed categories, unemployed citizens, who are not employed in the social sector, are law-abiding under category -- other citizens. And, therefore, under equal conditions, they can accomplish all of that. However, the Serbian Radical Party has objections to the existing Law on its own transformation. And we think that privatisation needs to be implemented faster, it has to be more efficient, more comprehensive, it can't be too much of an obstacle. It would be best to declare all social property as state property, then sell it as when you sell goods at the market. But I know it's impossible in such a simplified form. Many other negative consequences resulting from such privatisation must be taken into account. But I agree with you that privatisation must be organised much more seriously and that the state must benefit much more from selling businesses. But I disagree that the main reason for the adoption of this law on the suspension of privatisation in Serbia is what you wrote here. The main reason is what we managed to determine a few minutes ago, because of the sudden increase in interest in privatisation lies in the effort of existing administrations to keep control of businesses. So that's the point of the privatisation suspension in Serbia. I think it's better to do any privatisation than to stop it completely, because you said in your amendments that it takes six months to pass a new law on privatisation. Now I ask the minister a question, this is what it says in your explanation, it writes for six months at the most, which means that it says in the explanation -- it sets a deadline for the adoption of a new law on its own transformation, so it means six months at the most. Now, do you have a bill of law that you're going to bring out for public debate? Yes, you do. Then shorten the procedure. Let's consider the bill at the next session. That the Parliament decides if you have agreed to this law, purified it at DOS, at your various consultations, to shorten the procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u492	Mr. Dragisic, I warn you - time, it's seven minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u493	I'm done with two sentences. If the bill is over, bring it to the Assembly to bring it, to have a good privatisation law, to make the privatisation go away. Don't lose six months. Because if you go into public debates, they can last a year. In one public debate, you will be rejected by the bill, and you will bring a new proposal, and again for a public debate, and from one to another public debate. Who knows how long that's gonna take. This year will not be your year of economy, as the prime minister said in his exposé, but will be the year of public debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u494	The word has a folk ambassador, Stevan G. Guduric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u495	Dear Presidency, fellow MPs, I am pleased that Mr Batic is here because I have to say one sentence - that it is inappropriate for the minister to insult the MPs, and even the chairman does not notice it, as he does not notice in the second statement that he is holding a letter, in the third statement he does not notice that there are some MPs who have learned these discussions in the evening schools, and the discussions of Mr Batic on television are such as to look, if he can already talk, that he does not have that evening. Then in the election campaign, you were talking about fast privatisation, so here at this pay phone a dozen days ago, it's been said that it won't steal and lie. Then you're terminating the privatisation for six months. It's like lying or you might have a better expression, but it all seems that way. You can say it any way you want, you can delete it, it'd be a red card, and then you say it's not red, we'll give you a couple of yellow ones, and it still doesn't work. And that's about what these professional laws of yours look like, since we've heard that all of this will be solved by the expert governments, given that the laws you've proposed to us, at least the first two we're talking about today, are such that they are proposed on one side and they have more amendments than the basic proposal, and if that's professional, then we probably didn't know what experts are, and this is how the cream on all of it, experts even propose what's the opposite of the constitution, so it's probably even a higher kind of expertise. By stopping everything that has started normally, you are doing damage to both workers and businesses and to those who have rights under the existing law. Then, once it is said in Article 2, that something should be deleted, and then in Article 4, it is said to be applied in another option. If something gets deleted once, it's no longer read. You should explain that. However, I think that one thing is clear to all of us, as a basic one, the legislator doesn't want the possibility that workers, generations who created businesses and factories, are entitled to 60% of the capital in enterprises, because you probably have some obligations to someone you promised something when they brought you to power. That's got to cost. Then this is the simplest, to take the workers, from whom it's simpler than them. I'll tell you that it would be more normal for a Beocian cement factory from a place where I, which lasts more than 160 years and works successfully, to function in every war except NATO... ... It was made on the land of the Beyland peasants. I guess they have some kind of rights bigger than those white-world hospatters. You're always talking about foreign capital, which absolutely speaks of having to pay someone back. Why aren't you talking about domestic capital? So the siats of yours have that capital in their hands. If you baptize us socialists as thieves, I don't just know who earned you what you had on you, if you're honest. You're talking - the first round goes like this, and then the second round can even apply in that previous law, which Mr Batic has set out here. Even thieves and criminals are subject to the law, and these don't apply. Look in your ranks, and you don't have to deal with others, because you have so many. Also, if he's involved in making something, then it's good, and when something changes, it's not good. Mr. Minister will remember that his company, among other things, has made an assessment of the cement construction plant, true, for the purposes of French La Farzha, according to the Beocina cement factory. You look at your company, but if you say it's a shine of those estimates, it's practically thieving, how can it be done, and it was involved, sir, and your firm.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u496	The word is given by MP Zlatan Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u497	Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with a quote from today's daily list, and I quote: "This law does not touch the conceptual solutions of the new privatisation law, but we just want to get on time, to prepare a good legal project." These are the words of the resolute minister of privatisation and economy in the government of the Republic of Serbia. Since the election, on December 23rd last year, until the constitution of this assembly on January 22nd, at all means of public information, starts with RTS, and over all days of the papers, radicals have been accused of obstructing and holding back the new Serbian parliament. Although we insisted exclusively on respecting the electoral procedure, I personally felt uncomfortable because at one point I thought that the new government had prepared everything and that, in the spirit of all the promises of the past two years, and especially in the pre-election campaign for September and December elections, it would literally pour the National Assembly into legislative proposals, new ideas and solutions. Sadly, today’s day or better suggested agenda and the materials delivered show that everything was just a farce, a deception of the people, and that all promises were empty. Except for nine members of the Amnesty Act, there are no new words, no new ideas in other proposals. On the contrary, the new government acknowledges that these proposals only want to gain time and now announces that it takes six months for a new privatisation law. The bill creates a deep gap between those companies that are not and have already privatised or have entered the privatisation process to stay out of the reach of the new proposal. In this way, a large number of employees in these companies will remain damaged in relation to employees who have already made the transformation, and it should be noted that the vast majority of workers are in those companies that have not yet started the transformation process. It also raises the question - what will happen in the next six months, if it's only six months, until the adoption of a new law on ownership transformation? If there has been a huge decline in production since October of last year, that many companies, which during NATO aggression and even after aggression, have somehow worked, can rightly be asked -- how will those already on the verge of existence survive for the next six months? Ladies and gentlemen, the transformation of social capital is a major problem and certainly cannot be ideal, but, in any case, any model of privatisation is better than the situation we now have, than the situation of uncertainty and hopelessness, which is just the current government knowingly, or unconsciously extending. The proposed amendments to the law, with the amendment submitted subsequently, states in the first article this way: "In the Law on its own transformation, in Article 6(1), paragraph 1, Article 6(1), will not apply until the new law has been passed, and most of all, for six months at most." Today's "Blica", one article reads this: "A press conference, President of the Council of Independent Unions of Serbia said that he received the oral guarantee of the Republic's privatisation minister at Friday's meeting that the application of the amended old law would be delayed for six months." This means (quote): "The amended point of the Law on Autonomous Privatisation will be restored to function, i.e. that companies under the law will be able to decide on their own transformation, said a member of the strike committee." Obviously, the correlation between this text is in today's "Blica" and the text in the proposed amendments to the Law on its own transformation. Of course, in these proposed amendments, it is not about prolonging the validity of the existing law, but about its suspension. So the next period won't be autonomous transformation after these changes. Someone here is cheating on the public, or a minister or journalist, "Blas." Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u498	The word has a folk letter from Gordana Pop-Lazic (depending on discussion). The word has a folk MP, Natasa Jovanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u499	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I was almost afraid that Minister Vlahovic was not here, I see, sitting in Djindjic's chair, that means something already, and I must first look at the look on his face, if he's laughing, because for three hours, how long this discussion, he laughs, he's in the mood, and it's good to hear what else we have to say about this bill. First of all, I would say that of all the parliamentary groups that are now being convened in the parliament of the Republic of Serbia, the only SRS for the past ten years has been persistent in this and has advocated the urgent implementation of property transformation in our country. I would remind you that the MPs of both the SRS and the Council of Citizens and the Greater Republic voted three times in the last term against the pro-longing of the mandatory time-limit for assessing the value of social capital. We have a law ahead of us that provides that privatisation is stopped through amendments and amendments to the law, and I think that this is another proof in favour of SRS claims, and this is increasingly evident for many citizens of Serbia, that you from DOS are unprepared to enter the economic reforms you have promised. These were empty pre-election promises, and that the state, which is in a difficult economic situation, with you in power, will be even more inefficient, as well as our entire economy. So, you've been campaigning declareably for privatisation, you've been campaigning for the past 10 years, and today you don't have a concept of privatisation according to one of your models, with a critical review and we've been working on the already existing Privatisation Act. In addition to stopping the privatisation, you have brought company workers, who are in this fantastic wave, which is probably commendable, and some of you are critically referring to it, said Mr. Vlahovic, in a fantastic wave, since November, 500 companies in our country have entered the property privatisation process under the current law and we do not see what is controversial, so you have brought these workers from these companies that have not begun the privatisation process under the existing law into an unequal position. And only later, in the beginning of this debate came Minister Dragan Milovanovic, who was supposed to calm the unions, found a compromise solution, today you gave us an amendment and said that within six months you would pass a new privatisation law. Then later, Minister Vlahovic reduced the deadline to three months and we will see what will happen. However, this once again shows your unpreparedness and inability to solve this very important problem in our country, first of all because it is not the only problem that you are unable to solve, because every day the problems accumulate, you build them up, this one is one of the biggest, most prominent, in addition to the escalation of Shiptarian banditism and terrorism in southern Serbia. It was quite clear that your goal was in the pre-election campaign to offer empty promises, and above all to get your ministerial chairs, and today they are mostly empty. Out of the seven vice-presidents of the government, there are no more in this afternoon's session. You are increasingly fulfilling the conditions of your Western employers after the five-octobaric coup you have carried out, you have taken over institutions, many businesses, banks in this country, and now you are unable to come out here today with the concept of privatisation. The period of suspension of privatisation will certainly be very attractive for most of you, or your party companies, who have thus entered large enterprises in our country. I mentioned some of them today, and this would be particularly important, and it will probably be important for Minister Vlahovic himself, given that since July of last year, as it was in his pompous biography when Djindjic proposed it for this portfolio, the director of the agency that has just assessed the value of capital and conducted in many businesses in our country. The minister himself said a few days ago that the biggest occupation of his is at this point, in addition to making some law, and I guess he will succeed within three months, that in this year we open tenders for sale of at least four large enterprises, guess what systems these are, and if at least twenty medium-sized enterprises were the subject of the transaction, he would be quite pleased. Only we still have time for Minister Vlahovic to explain to us what these transactions are, who will do them and what role Diloj Tus will play, which he led since July last year. On the other hand, it is very important that we be told, especially to those who come from Kragujevac, how the privatisation of the flag will be done, given that only the Serbian Radical Party has since the beginning advocated that this great giant is privatizing. And in 1992, when we talked about it, the director's lobby, which you're now creating within DOS, the same lobby as the one said to us, "The flag shouldn't be a screwdriver industry. What a flag will be now that nothing has been produced in it since the long and short pipes there broke into Miki Savicevic, who, as self-managing director, only in one day on the London Stock Exchange, gambled on his own recognition, but says it was the manner of the job at the time in the great Genex system, $20 million. I must remind you that on September 29th last year, the Serbian Radical Party submitted a bill on its own transformation, which would allow this transformation to be objective, transparent, armed and primarily made up of a group of experts from the Serb Radical Party, and above all Mrs Tabakovic, former minister of her own transformation. Of course, we could continue this session today, because it was interrupted, as well as the Law on Radio Television of Serbia, at that interrupted session. You were in a hurry to enter that three-way coalition, and this healthy project of the Law on its own transformation didn't come to the agenda, unfortunately. We'll have to wait for you and see when that happens.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u500	The word is made by MP Goran Cvetanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u501	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, in the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on its own transformation in Article 3, it is said: "The design of an enterprise under a specific programme can be carried out in an enterprise designated by the Government of the Republic of Serbia when it is not covered by that programme". I fear that precisely because Prime Minister Djindjic's adviser, Mr Branimir Dragas, has a private company that primarily assesses capital, and thus also sells businesses, so that the transition can be accelerated. First of all, given the different models of transition of the former Socialist countries and the results of the efficiency, we are inevitably referring to the conclusion that a valid vision of the transformation of property forms should have just been carried out perhaps according to the Slovenian model. Above all, large state-owned enterprises, which are also profitable, which have a monopoly in certain branches and areas of the economy or companies that go to the market with a particularly positive share, i.e. with a good business image, will easily be transformed. We ask the question how will the transformation of enterprises that have failed, disbanded, which are primarily on the verge of business existence be carried out. First of all in Jablanic County, where is the textile industry really on the verge of business existence and who is going to buy the shares of these companies? Of the 7,000 companies so far, about 630 have been privatised, and we have about 600 large enterprises, about half of Serbia's employees are working in them. Mr. Vlahovic says success will be if he opens a tender for the sale of four large enterprises and around 20 medium-sized enterprises this year. I'm afraid that if this puts off for the next six months, too, it's hard for that plan, which he's set as a goal, to achieve. If at every pressure, enough of what they have done from the Union of Serbian Unions, which has made a certain declaration that the law is withdrawn from the procedure, because they have most recently asked that, I quote, "it is sold, foreigners buy, lose workers and citizens, workers are not for sale, we put an end to the robbery. "So, in any case, privatisation must be according to a model that will respect capital, respect the specificity of individual branches and areas. The purchase of companies involves the purchase of companies either for cash or for old foreign currency savings under public supervision. With the direct responsibility of the state, the real price of social capital, the security of collection and, above all, the resolution of employee issues must be ensured.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u502	The word is Gordana Pop-Lazic, followed by Goran Vesic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u503	Ladies and gentlemen, MPs, although there is no quorum for work in the hall again, I will present my presentation, of course, and I assume that indifference is precisely because at least a third of DOS MPs do not have a day's internship, so they do not care much about the privatisation process and the participation of employees in privatisation. We Serbian radicals are not surprised by this draft law that the government has sent us, and we had no idea that the Prime Minister, Mr Djindjic, will once again, after doing so in 1994, stop the privatisation process, while his privatisation minister, Mr Vlahovic, puts the view of entering the privatisation quickly, but not too quickly, using the experience of Poland and Hungary. As Vlahovic, participating in a team that has conducted privatisation in the surrounding countries, Hungary, Bulgaria, Romania, should be asked about them, and the local public is aware of the consequences of the privatisation concept carried out in Hungary. We are even better known, because the entire economy of Hungary is completely destroyed, the plants turned into warehouses, in stores you can buy the products of all world producers who, by the way, are not produced in Hungary, but Hungarians can hardly buy, which is standard for them, unfortunately Mr. Kasa is not there, because he could transparently describe it to us. Where the DOS's promise to advocate legal certainty is because it raises the question of the legal and economic qualification of the DOS in the assessment of capital, as well as the costs of the companies that the companies had initiating the privatisation process. In your program, you say that on the first day of the new assembly, you will suspend the application of the current privatisation law until the appropriate changes are made by emergency procedure. Once again you broke your pre-election promise, because you're stopping privatisation, you're not proposing a new law. Also, there is no indication of this from a legal and technical point of view, which section belongs to Articles 3, 4 and 5 of the proposed law, so we can assume it's transitional and final provisions, but it's an extremely unprofessional proposal. Minister Vlahovic says that a more stable environment should be created for foreign multinational companies, which are very interested in investing in our economy, which he is likely to have as a director, as he is already known by the company "Diloj Tus". The Prime Minister claims in his exposé that it will not be cheap labour that will stimulate foreigners to invest in our economy, but good management and stable laws. Where are our stable laws? Is this the law you're proposing? As much as you are willing to respect the rights already acquired and start processes, this proposal best speaks of stopping privatisation. The minister's favorite word in the Serbian government, especially the finance minister and the privatisation minister, is transparency. Everything will also be transparent in front of the public, in order to avoid, they say, corruption affairs, which occurred in other eastern countries, I guess, where they participated in the concept of privatisation. I guess because of this transparency we have an announcement that direct transfers of the assembly sessions will be suspended, that we will have a special channel of TV privatisation, you have now said that almost on some TV show, through which you will train the owners of small and medium-sized enterprises to create a business plan, so that they can apply for a financial loan. Don't, please, throw money at these things, underestimate our businessmen, who in these difficult times and difficult conditions of commitment, because of everything that has happened to us in the last 10 years, have managed to create these businesses and survive on the market. You'd better deal with the flag, RTB Bor, the Majdanpek Mine, where strange things happen, and by the way, where crisis headquarters have already been introduced and where production is less than even the one that was in September of last year.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u504	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u505	Which way should we warn you that the interest of foreigners, those who are allegedly offering us help, is not strengthening production and healing production, but completely destroying the domestic economy. Do you want to create such an environment by prolonging the adoption of this law? If they're already well-intentioned, as you say, why don't they invest in re-promatter, in the start of production, say for Azotara in Pancheva, and enable the process of production, but they buy mineral fertilizer from specific companies in exactly certain countries, what they're going to do this year, and maybe next year, and then we can put all our nitrogens under the key. It's the system they're working on, and you're handing them over, creating a legal and economic environment to make their intentions come true.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u506	I'd like to remind you that you've overstepped your time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u507	I'm done. When they completely destroy us economically, slowly but surely they will destroy us with dirty technology, lack of drugs, and they will question the health and survival of the nation. Economic and political moves towards breaking the state are so synchronised that they are visible and that you can no longer hide them. Because of this, you also announce the need to amend the Law on the Selection of People's MPs and allow citizens abroad to vote, aware that your country rating is falling and that only you may be saved from the diaspora, thanks to Vesna Pesic and Vladeta Jankovic, who will deliver it to you in sacks.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u508	I warn you twice, you've gone too far.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u509	Just one more question. Who is this Mr. Dragas who visits our businesses in Serbia? By whose authority, by whose order, and in what function? Is he the one who is filming the situation of the economy and will continue to direct privatisation in Serbia? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u510	The People's MP Goran Vesic has the word, and after him, the MP Bratislav Đuric.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u511	Dear Presidency, ladies and gentlemen, we have been listening here for several hours to mourn the fate of the working class. A few hours here we've been listening to suggestions about what we should do, how new tax laws should be passed, how privatisation should be developed differently. We've been listening here for a few hours, how should we work? All of this would be fine, of course, by the MPs who face a bill of law have the right to discuss what they think. It would be all right if it weren't for people who have been in power for 10 years. You've been in power for ten years in this country, and you've been doing nothing for 10 years. Kukats over the fate of the working class, and when you came to power in Serbia, had a working class in Serbia several thousand marks of salary - 1989. When you left power, you left them with 100 marks, so what working class are you talking about? Now, let's talk a little bit about why this law is being put out of force. Take tonight's Evening News, the text says, "Hurry to Progress." Expecting to avoid new legal provisions, many companies rushed with privatisation, "Progress", "Simpo", Hotel "Moscow", Hotel "Balkan". These are companies where your directors are still. This is not a law against workers, this is a law against Mirko Marjanovic, Dragan Tomic and similar Who hope to use the last days to transform their lost political power into economic power. [[Applause]] The Progress for 10 years in this country has monopoly jobs, they've all been doing drugs, exports, what they haven't done. He still needs Mirko Marjanovic to own it, so he won't. Therefore, this law that is now being put out of force was passed several years ago. In those few years, the minister says, about 400 companies have entered their own legal transformation. All right. Why didn't it get in any more? What was the problem? Then why didn't you care about the rights of the workers? Why, then, did you not worry about how they would handle housing issues? You've been handing out apartments like it occurred to you. Then why didn't you worry about it? Since October 5, 900 companies have entered, so don't tell me it's just because of the German stamps. Even if that were the case, we heard just before the SPS representative, who says that because the German mark has been given the right value. Who held a German mark on six dinars? You or us? Therefore, all the stories about wanting to protect the rights of workers are empty and ordinary demagogy. This is where they want to protect the rights of a handful of directors trying to privatize these factories, not to mention that "Bambi" from the Fireman has been estimated at 16 million marks. Anyone who knows, knows that only the name "Bambi" is worth more, not to mention that Hotel "Magestik" was estimated at nine million marks, not to mention that Hotel "Balkan" was estimated at 3.7 million marks. It's clear what's behind this. There are attempts to rob state property. Workers will be protected by a new privatisation law, because the new law will not be passed without social consensus, without co-operation with unions, without co-operation with interested businessmen, without co-operation with the widest social public, because such a law is not just being passed. They will certainly be able to protect their rights, but whoever wants to protect workers' rights, he is concerned that the worker has a salary to live on, not to live like a mere poor person and then listen to empty demagogy and that someone gives him empty papers. Therefore, stopping the privatisation process is less harmful than continuing in this way. Very soon we will have a new privatisation law and very soon this country will have the host. I'm sorry, but there's no more robbery. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u512	The word has a folk MP, Bratislava Đuric, followed by Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u513	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, the MPs, after a lot of talk, mourning and whine of those who have brought the working class of Serbia into a state that it is, (let's hear the word of the workers. I am Bratislava Đuric, an electronic industry worker from Nis and the chairman of the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions. The existing Privatisation Act, which is in force, is very bad. If it wasn't for what my predecessor said, it would have been privatization and it would have been better for this country. The changes in certain members of the law proposed by the government, pending the adoption of a comprehensive law to regulate the matter, are acceptable to the Association of Free and Independent Trade Unions, which the Government of the Republic of Serbia is familiar with and the general public. What is good in the current Law and what are the benefits for Serbian workers? They're gone. The benefits are for a narrow circle of people close to the government, the regime of Slobodan Milosevic, who lost power in Serbia, but wants to rule over the economy again. He'll never be able to do that again. The talk of actions, of free action, of 400 marks per year of work experience and other nonsense, which Serbian workers did not swallow and who know it was "a carrot on a stick" and that they would only fantasize about it, and that the kamak would pick up the various thugs that brought this country here where we are today. Serbia's economy is collapsed, and it is not brought by current radicals, according to the SPS, DOS, but together because 10 years are in power, less or more, secretly or publicly. Serbia's economy will not be helped by empty stories, nor will they care for workers, but Serbia's economy needs investment and legislation that will be guaranteed and will be invested in capital. The workers of Serbia know it and will not be fooled by those who kill themselves by caring for the working class, and until yesterday they were in power, they have made everything miserable by their actions, and workers in particular. With this pay phone, no one has any contact points with workers and unions, and I have the right to tell you on behalf of more than 200,000 members of the Association of Free and Independent Unions and on my own behalf. We support the proposed changes to the Law on Privatisation, with the obligation that the Government of the Republic of Serbia should hold talks with all relevant unions in Serbia before the new law is passed. Until then, gentlemen of the Socialists and the Radicals, you will save the workers by no longer taking care of them. [[Applause in the O.R.]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u514	I ask that, before taking the word of MP Bozidar Vucurovic, we make a decision on the time of today's work. We agreed and made a decision to work until 20.00 hours, and depending on the course of the session, we decided whether to work longer or to continue tomorrow. Now things are like this, we've got four registered MPs and we've got two amendments. My proposal is to finish this agenda item today and continue the session with the other points tomorrow at 10.00 hours. This takes an hour at the most. Radicals getting tired? No, they're not. I suggest we finish this agenda, and tomorrow we have five more points, an announcement of another extraordinary session, and we have to work longer than you learned in earlier sessions. To make a decision, I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. Gentlemen of the Radicals, the Rules of Procedure say that the quorum is determined by the fact that the MPs present are putting in cards, and as far as I can see, you are present and participating alive in the distraction of the session, but I ask you to verify your presence with your cards. Be kind, please. As far as I can tell, we are now communicating.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u515	The rule and obligation of the MP is to participate in the work of the National Assembly. What Serbian radicals report on laws that are being discussed today in the National Assembly is not a distraction to the work of the National Assembly. I also ask the President of the National Assembly not to insult the MPs and not to forget that he is only the first among the equals, that there is nothing greater rights than the other MPs and that he does not allow the order to be disturbed. If you are in a hurry, simply prohibit the opposition from being present and working effectively, because we already have experience with some of the former ones who have done so. That's how they went. You, too, make sure that your Head of Parliament disciplines your MPs, so be there and have a quorum and don't expect us to give you a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u516	Please, you have answered the word advertising the violation of the Rules of Procedure, that is the reason for the replica, not the remark. I didn't, of course, think you were interrupting the session and you know very well what I mean. You yourself said that the MPs are obliged to participate in the work, and participation in the work involves the verification of presence in the hall. Thank you for supporting my request that Serbian Radical Party MPs present in the hall verify their presence by inserting cards. Thank you. Before you take your word for it, let's just decide on a follow-up. Since we have determined the quorum, I ask the MPs to vote to extend the work until the end of this agenda. Who's in, please press the appropriate key? For 136, against 9, abstention one, did not vote 19. A total of 165 MPs. Thank you. The word is Božidar Vucurovic, followed by MP Milorad Mircic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u517	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, and without the remarks of the President of the Assembly that we should interfere with the work of the Assembly and that it would be good for you to remove the MPs and do what is right, it seems to me that we are just playing the National Assembly here. If you look at the benches in which the government is to sit, that amount of respect for this assembly has not been given to any government since that war to this day. Here sits properly Mr Batić, who today was the only one with a law in this assembly Son, did I ask you anything? [[Dropping out of the O.R.]] Everything else is laws on the abolition or suspension of the law. I expected the flood of new quality, valid legal solutions, as you announced in the election campaign and later. You're repealing existing laws without a proposal for new ones. You, in fact, are legalizing the law of lawlessness. This lawlessness has been going on, like, since October 5th. In light of the reasons for the adoption of this law, it is said, among other things, that it is adopted to prevent the abuse of the previous law. This inevitably imposes on us a dilemma: either the Minister of Economy and Privatisation is not telling the truth, or the Ministers of Police and Justice are not doing their job right? Who is it that has abused the law, does it have a name, a last name, a function? Has anyone been arrested for this abuse of the law, has anyone been charged with any criminal charges, or has any proceedings been initiated? What privatisation act has been annulled so far because of the abuse of this law? It's not one. It's rhetoric. It's empty stories. Mr. Vlahovicu, you're the minister. As minister, you should not be presenting any flat-rate estimates and flat-rate data, or the number of enterprises that started privatisation.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u518	I said 950.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u519	A lot more than 400 and a lot more than 950. As an expert, you should know that the privatisation process begins with an estimate of the value of capital. Much more than 950 companies in this country have made an assessment of the value of capital.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u520	You haven't read the law.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u521	I read it very well. It is also a flat-rate assessment of the value of the shares on the secondary market. And today the stock of the company is worth more than the nominal, and the shares of the bad companies are not as much as you claim. After all, all the instruments are in your hands. Form a valid market with securities of value and this problem will be very easy to resolve. The scales now, which is the principle of privatization, better insider, voucher, combination or some third, are at this point inappropriate. Everyone's better than a suspension of the law. Any privatisation is better than any privatisation. You seem to be joking with us, because by today's law you're breaking Beck's law, and Beck's law is the law in which you were involved. What you're saying is that you've only done a methodology for assessing values, it's an integral part of the law, qualified you as an unserious expert. How can you do a methodology for something that's wrong? It's the only way to fix what's wrong. You've fixed it so well, you'll end it today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u522	The People's Messenger Milorad Mircic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people Vitomir Plužarević.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u523	I guess it's more correct to say - let's prepare Vitomir Plužarevic, because if you say how you say it, that after me Vitomir Plužarević, in our language it makes a whole different sense. Until, Comrade Batic, the law behind which your parliamentary group stands is passed, legalized, and we'll see. I'd like the more you get into that kind of community, the more I want us to be alone. Ladies and gentlemen, this congregation in its work in the past period has made decisions, made laws in the domain of exceptions, in the domain of precedent. They are not rare examples when illogical laws and decisions were made, and time has shown this illogicality, the lack of basis for the purpose of making such laws. This is a bill that will enter, I suppose, the history of this House's work. For what? And when exceptions were made in making some decisions, decisions were put out of force earlier, but new proposed decisions were adopted. It has always been adopted by the assembly majority, as do the DOS - sheep now have the assembly majority, so some political parties or political coalitions have been in the majority of this parliament, and they have made their decisions on the basis of the majority. What is the essence of this precedent? It is precisely in the fact that one law is put out of force, and no draft law or possible solution is offered, at least temporarily. It is understandable and clear that there is also a change in certain legal provisions, such as the Transformation Act, as well as the arrival and constitution of new authorities. The model's changing. That's quite clear. The model that's worked so far, when it comes to transformation, is not good. He showed his weaknesses and newly formed, the constitutional government wants to change that model. It would be logical and natural for that government and government to offer their model. The model is the result of the programme's definition of one party and a majority coalition. About that model would be a proposal or a DOS programme as a political coalition or a proposal for their compromise agreement. What is this model of privatisation, or transformation in DOS? There is a wide range of models within this coalition, from the model proposed by Vesna Pesic, behind which is the association of embroidery and braids, to the general model, which is based on the positive liquids of the staff-leninist-marksist model of privatisation. That would be some kind of diapazone. Amongst other models and other options. It is understandable that the resolute minister, wanting to implement the law, that is, the government's programme, which was presented by the Prime Minister, wants to start, what the people would say, from one zero and in one clean situation, that man can function, and he and his ministry, and he is rightly a minor and anyone who claims that there is no real opportunity to privatise without foreign capital, without sound money. That's clear to everyone. There's this one thing that's confusing, which is the minister's exposure, that a new model will attract foreign capital, precisely the fact that these days you're often invited abroad from your sponsors, donors, to some discussions, where among other things, it's pointed out that the subject of the talks was also the process of transformation, i.e. privatisation. (Minister - I didn't...) You are not ministers. You're hardly anyone who leads. Obviously, those who are in senior positions, but you discuss it with them, don't complain to me. Clear up with them. Real fear is in the next. Always respect people's wisdom. A nation based on experience has created some wisdom, some matrix to be guided by. It's not called, it's what the people say, a donkey in a wedding to sleep with a bride, but to tow and tow. And you're pulling and pulling to get this country out of crisis. I'm afraid others don't think so.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u524	The word is made by MP Vitomir Plužarevic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u525	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the bill of law is a hasty one. It's not prepared in accordance with the expert government. He's clearly inconsistencies with the wishes of the workers. That's what you can see. The union disagrees with this proposal. The compromise was not found with people who advocate real-evaluations of capital. The minister only made a proposal to regulate this in three months' time. What's going on in this vacuum? If groups and groups are already visiting Serbia and businesses, a moment from abroad is waiting, as this proposal is being adopted today, and if it passes, then the employers enter the scene. Foreign capital doesn't want to take any chances under these conditions. Why would they risk having their own people in the government, who would handle it in their favor. Social property is a strange property that is at our scene to this day. In this property, any activity in the transformation relationship is possible. The time the government wants to realise is the main concept of today's debate on this bill. Serbian radicals advocate a more dynamic concept of transformation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u526	He has the word National MP Slobodan Tomovic. Mr. Tomovic, did you speak on this agenda? Please, then we have nothing to discuss. You have the right to speak only if the discussion is not exhausted. Mr. Ivkovic picked up the last word. You've been talking for eight and a half minutes and I think it's just a turn, you're absolutely wrong. The People's Messenger Bozidar Vujic has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u527	Mr. President, I'm not surprised that you're... (President: please, let's get on with the work.) )......................................................................................................... And that your rage and anger over the lack of quorum, or the quorum at the limit of the quorum, are searched on the radicals, but be sure, I believe personally, and you, too, believe that we have contributed to today's debate on both the first and the second points of the agenda. I think that before your remarks should be addressed to the head of the DOS Parliamentary Group, whom I see a little bit chasing the halls outside the MPs, to gather them, and you have a vast majority of 176 MPs. It seems to me that he's after the MPs, although I was convinced that he was out there tripping. But let's talk about the law a little bit. Like the first item of the agenda and the second item of the agenda, it assures me that you are consistent in your inconsistency. The bill, which we received, reads with the date of February 1st. Your amendment to the bill you're adopting again is February 12th. As you have had the pressures within, the reaction in the public, on the first item of the agenda, on the debate on the Amnesty Act, it is now, on the basis of the pressure of the Syndicates, that you change your legal proposal again as a concession to the Union and make Solomon's solution by delaying the legality of this law with a six-month deadline. In all normal democratic countries, and you plead that you are Democrats, the government is asking for a minimum of 100 days to show what it can and what it wants. While I'm a minister, he's been asking for six months. That's what the law says. That's what the DOS Parliamentary Group's proposal says. If that's 100 days, you'll probably get that, but you don't know what you want to do right now. You're suspending this law for six months. The suspension of the law for six months, and the lack of a new law project tells us how much you know you're doing. In 1994, at least 30 MPs, which I mentioned today, who were in various parties, and now in DOS, remembers a young Marxist Djindjic who made a major concession to the SPS and initial steps in the ownership transformation in Serbia. The SPS thanked him. Since 1994, Serbia has been forced to start again with a ownership transformation. You can be angry with the SRS because for the past three years, in a coalition with SPS and JUL, we haven't realized our concept of ownership transformation. But he is well-known to the citizens of Serbia. God will, one day, come to power, we will implement, we have been in power, we are in opposition again, and we will be in power again, but we will show our people how Serbian and Serbian people can rule in Serbia. In 2001, Djindjic again. Same situation as 1994. We're going back to the beginning, and we're going to wait about six months for the director of one equity assessment firm to go into the audit of all those who went into it, again for their firm to obtain certain financial resources, and by chance the minister, and then again on the problem of working as a minister, we're going to get a new law. And again, Serbia in 1994. There will be new elections.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u528	We don't have any more registered speakers. He has the word Mr. Ivkovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u529	Ladies and gentlemen, most of you here have the name of your party definition - democratic. Democratic means respecting the minority's opinion. So, let it go without fuss, because we are all equal here, 250 of us, each has the right to speak out and to state the view of what is being discussed in the congregation. I'd like to say it's just -- it's not good for the state if it's run by those who, reading the paper, make decisions in the morning what to do that day. However, when a state is run, it must be seriously thought, through reading the papers, it is certainly necessary to get to know each other, but a good advance move should be measured and know very well what is later on with what is now being done. The gentleman who declared himself a leader of the free and independent union, by sitting in the O.R., said everything, apparently he did not notice one important fact -- he said that certain members of the Law were changing to their own transformation. Unfortunately, that's not true. We are doing something that in the legislation, and the minister of justice will help me, do not stand and do not need to be done. We part of the Law on its own transformation are abolishing and we say that this part of the Law on its own transformation under the current government's programme does not exist for the next six months. So we leave entirely the law unsettled space in that sense. The normal legislative procedure implies - if there is a law, the law that exists, it is in force and it is in force as long as the proposings and the Assembly do not adopt a new legislative solution. As a rule, laws can't be retroactive, can't apply to solutions made under previous laws and can't be adjudicated. But it certainly is not a good solution that is proposed here, that the provision of this law should be completely abolished, that this space should remain completely unregulated within the next six months. That's something to think about. What you really want is safe in the O.R. or anyone else, it's not clear what the government's intention is. Please, each of us has the right to get enough information to make a decision. So every one of us has a right and I'm asking the minister to come out here for a pay phone and explain to us what he wants. We need to know what further steps are and what direction they're going further, and that based on that, we're assessing whether it's okay to put out some of the law and that part of the law doesn't exist in the next six months. Now, let's talk a little bit about what happened to the autonomous transformation of the so-called. ... The transformation? Here's an example of "Tigger" - Pirot. He completed two rounds of transformation, 65% share of the share of capital, 7% of pensioners, 23% went to the Republican Fund. The average salary at the Tiger was 7,000 dinars in December. And now to get to the bottom of it -- anyone who's in power tends to draw on themselves the right to decide in many areas, across the system. That's not good. It's not good, because it creates a narrow throat of production. This decision, which now appears to be taking away the autonomous right for businesses and workers who have created and expanded reproduction in these enterprises, means, invested in building halls, invested in new machines, taken away their right to think about themselves. One bakery industry and workers who, creating in the bakery industry, created large capital, and did not share that capital through salaries, but built new factories, built new factory lines, they know much better what they will do with themselves and their factory, than one man in the centre, in the city of Belgrade where they live. Thus, freedom under the law is taken away here, under the Constitution of the Republic of Serbia, from Article 57 to Article 64, which is guaranteed to companies by independent organisation of work. That's the point. It goes to total centralization and that the government is the one who assesses how it should be done. Workers and management in factories are deprived of creativity in the process of manufacturing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u530	Before we conclude the debate, the closing word has Minister Vlahovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u531	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable MPs, the presidency, Mr. President, firstly, there have been very nice discussions. Once again, it has proved that the economic field is not good for winning political points and for making political negotiations. However, before I begin to elaborate in some way everything I have managed to write down, but believe me, I don't have much, I would only like to clear up this dilemma once and for all -- did the Democratic Party, and Mr Djindjic, in 1994, influence and initiate the Revaluation Act? I would like to remind all of you that the Democratic Party then offered a complete set of new legal solutions on privatisation, which was then called that, and that at the same time, the then majority of them had drawn out only the Law on Revaluation and declared it as a law proposed by the Democratic Party. So if we want to talk about it, then let's not tell the half-truths, but let's say the whole truth, as it was. So it's not good to use the economic field, if you don't know it, believe me. Political locks you will hardly be able to achieve, absolutely (Employer Tomislav Nikolic throws out of place). Okay, and why are you telling me this? We're starting with economic reform, gentlemen. I have repeated several times - economic reforms are not possible with free shares, because of the question -- who owns the company, because of the concentration of property, because of who negotiates with potential partners and because we do not believe that there is this hidden credit potential, in the hands, in the straws, in the stockings of future shareholders, which should finance the costs of economic reforms. Therefore, we must open our ownership structure and our economy to investment, foreign and domestic. I haven't spoken for a moment - foreign strategic partner. I'm talking about strategic partners, domestic or foreign. The destruction of domestic strategic partners in this country in the last 10 years, unfortunately, drives us to the first thought, that strategic partners will be mostly foreign. The law we're talking about today is a law that needs to bridge the period to the adoption of a new law on privatisation. This law at the same time confirms that we will not have a period of lawlessness and all autonomous transformations, if that is what businesses want, will be able to do according to the special programme regime. It is not true, therefore, that we have excluded a large number of companies that, by autonomous transformation, would privatise and share actions, but allowed them to be inventive, looking for their foreign investors who should pay the price of restructured these companies. The law on privatisation is easy to write and easy to bring and put into parliamentary procedure, and probably you would have brought something in two or three days, most would have adopted it, but this law does not concern only this parliament. This law must be supported by all those who will participate in future privatisation, because even the worst legal solutions have no chance of success unless they are supported by all the groups involved. So, successful managers, and chambers of commerce, and unions and citizens. That takes time. When I say public debate, I don't think we're going to go through Serbia and talk to every man, but I think we're going to have adequate round tables with experts and representatives from individual social groups who are interested in having a quality law. We don't need a law to change in three, four or five months, one amendment. We want to pass a law that will finally regulate this area, at the same time we do not want to allow something that the previous regime has brought, that responsibility for those acts will move on to the new government of Serbia, because we are deeply convinced that there is no economic reform with the privatisation that has been adopted. Don't be afraid that the new law will affect huge layoffs, that workers will become hired workers, don't be afraid of sentences - a better paying worker than a poor shareholder, because I really believe in it deeply, but let's ask ourselves what's really an alternative. Is there an alternative to economic reforms and is there an alternative to financing the costs of restructuring our economy? We'll soon understand that we don't have alternatives. We must open ourselves to the world and make this ambience attractive to potential investors, not only abroad, but also domestic, and therefore it is necessary to change this law, and because of the need for consensus, immediate hitchion to further autonomous transformations is necessary. What kind of rights are we talking about? There was a bit of a cynical lamentation over the rights of workers and everything that the worker could have in the past 10 years, a lamentation on the topic of abolishing autonomous transformations, four past year nothing happened, four last year the previous regime created an illusion that the worker belonged to something, and then institutional and non-institutional measures prevented him from getting what he had done, and then behind that he did not organise a secondary market of action and created conditions for buying these same actions on a large discount, and then those 400 marks eventually came out 30 or 40 marks. Now I ask you, is it better to have 10% of 60% divided or is it better to have 10% or 15% of the real amount? Actions that have a chance to grow or to have actions that have a chance to keep their price falling, if they're worth it at all in the moment of division. Think about it. As workers in the world enter economic reform, they get a minority package of actions and it's called participation in property. This minority action package has a chance that the value of this package on the market is growing. If you're going with a majority action package, no capitalization, it's just empty stories. A foreign partner will come and invest. What's capitalization? Is this done overnight or requires a certain investment period? Do you think that even one partner is really willing to bear that level of risk to come here and think about whether tomorrow's working council and a staff of workers, now their own-founded, will cancel his trust or not? He won't. There are no examples of recapitalisation. There are joint investments, where a strategic partner has majority capital, but an example of recapitalisation and thus a privatization, I really haven't met anywhere in neighbouring countries. What social justice are we talking about? It's said here that young people had a chance by selling businesses, so the money from the sale was directed to the Fund for Development, so the Fund for Employment, then the pension fund, so the pensions were paid regularly, so we started new jobs. I was wondering for a moment if we were talking about the same situation we're in. Are we talking about the 28% unemployment rate in this country? Where are these investments in new jobs and where is this youth participation in privatisation in this way? Instead, we have a Development Fund that has split the money from Telecom companies, where every dollar, dinar or brand that's been put inside has been irrevocably ruined because our economy is, inefficient, we have a Development Fund that even loans from the solidarity logs have been shared by businesses. Do we also talk about this social justice and the participation of young people, unemployed above all, and we have over a million and a half. We're talking today about the need to stop autonomous privatisation, property transformation, that's what it's called. We're not talking about a new law project today. The new legislative project will come on the agenda of one of the next congregations. A new legislative project requires consensus. We want to have full transparency and it is true that this is the most repeated word in my dictionary, and that transparency implies that there is transparency in the design, the preparation of some legal act and its adoption here in parliament and the participation of all authorities in the adoption of such an important legal act. This transparency implies that we will continue to work transparently. When I say tender, I really mean a transparent tender, I really think I can convince you that it's possible to make privatisation, while not steal anything and that it's possible to make privatisation, and in doing so, we don't have any corruption affairs, but please - don't talk about the transparency that you've been selling to Telecom like that, for four years we don't know how the contract was signed, eight years later we don't know how Galenika got privatised. Don't talk about transparency. I can't tell you now what these multinational companies really tell me when they come. Once again to remind you, gentlemen, each of you coalition partners had the opportunity to try out in privatisation. He had his own privatisation ministers and nothing happened. Very soon you'll get my project, but it won't be my project. It will be the project of this Serbia. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-12-0.u532	I'm finishing the initial search. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on its own transformation in principle. For 129 against 58, no one abstained, four did not vote, a total of 191 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of the bill in principle. I'm opening a search of the bill in particular. Member of the 1st amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister agreed to this amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a representative of the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Member of the 2nd amendment was submitted by MP Cedomir Jovanovic. The Prime Minister agreed to this amendment at the session of the Legislative Committee. The Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee adopted this amendment. Since the amendment was adopted by a representative of the Government, the Committee on Finance and the Legislative Committee, I find that the amendment has become an integral part of the bill. Anyone else want to talk about the bill in particular? He doesn't want to. ) If no one answers the word, I conclude the search of the bill in particular. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards into the MPs' units. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I put to the vote the draft law amending and supplementing the Law on its transformation in general. For 129, against 57, no one abstained, four did not vote, a total of 190 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly adopted by majority the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on its own transformation. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we will continue our work tomorrow at 10.00 p.m. Dear ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, we continue the session of the Third Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 163 MPs. In order to determine the quorum for the work of the National Assembly, I ask the MPs to insert their identification cards into the parliamentary units. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am informing the National Assembly that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Srđa Popovic, Dusan Prophetovic, Kosti Nikolic, Bojan Pajtic, Zoran Novakovic, Zahari Trnavcevic and Vladimir Andric. I also inform the National Assembly that they have been invited to attend the meetings of the President, Vice-Presidents, Ministers and Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, as well as the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Having obtained the conditions, I propose that we establish the mandate of the People's MP in the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia for a vacant parliamentary post, in order to enable him to participate in the work of the National Assembly. You have been presented with a report by the Republic Election Commission on the election of a MP to complete the vacant parliamentary seat at the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia. Also, you were presented with a report by the Administrative Board, which found that conditions had been met for confirming the mandate of the MP, with a proposal that the National Assembly, as set out in Article 27(5), would be approved. The law on the election of MPs finds confirmation of the mandate of MP Ivan Andric, elected from the election list of the Democratic Opposition of Serbia -- Dr Vojislav Kostunica. On the basis of the report of the Republic Election Commission and the report and the proposal of the Administrative Committee, as referred to in Article 27(5). The law on the selection of Members of the People's Parliament, I find that the mandate of Parliamentarian Ivan Andric is confirmed. Congratulations to the MP, if he is present, on the election. We move to the 3rd item of the agenda: - Proposal for a Law amending the Law on Radio Television Mr. Nikolic, I am asking you because we are only at the beginning of work, please let us go in order. If you're caught by the minister of justice, don't react. (Tomislav Nikolic: I won't put up with it as an opposition to bite me. Then you choose what you want. (Tomislav Nikolic: I have chosen) I see, therefore I warn you. You have received the bill of law, which was submitted by the Government of the Republic of Serbia. You have received reports from the Committee on Culture and Information and the Legislative Committee. I'm opening a principled search. Pursuant to Article 92(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest we limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. ) I ask the MPs to put their cards in the MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I'm putting this motion to the vote to limit the discussion to five minutes per item of the agenda. For 123, against 48, no one was abstentioned, no voted four, a total of 175 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? Yeah. )
