ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1087	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament before the opening of the Fourth Extraordinary Session to give you information. Mr. Markovic, the MP and I looked at the stenographic notes from last night's session and found that there was a misunderstanding on the subject of respect for the Rules of Procedure because giving words to Mr. Ivkovic was not explicit in words, but by giving words to the hand, so there was a misunderstanding. Mr. Markovic thought I didn't give the word, I proved that I did, so we were actually right in some way both him and me, but we discussed it last night. This is all I wanted to inform you about, so there's no doubt about it. I was also asked by Mr Cedomir Jovanovic to inform only one proposal for a meeting of representatives of parliamentary groups after the end or at the break of this session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1088	Mr. President, the Honorable Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's MPs, I believe that despite the many differences, in the strict words we use to defend our views, we, as members of the Serbian citizens' House, must not stand aside in a situation where Serbia is divided into citizens of the first or second order. We are all witnesses to events that have struck Serbia's cheek. In a time when our countrymen are killed in Kosovo and Metohija, we cannot remain silent before the attempt of the part of the country's citizens, who believed and chose us, to do the injustice that was done by the insult of Roma and Jews through vandal acts committed in the Jewish Synagogue, the cemetery and in front of the Cultural Centre, which is currently under way of an exhibition on Roma living in our city during the last century. I would ask the representatives of the parliamentary groups to send their authorised representatives in the first break or after the end of this session, if that happens before, to issue a statement condemning such an act and thus trying to defend the face of this country.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1089	I would also like to inform you that on February 15th, so today, at the session's break, i.e. after the end of this session, the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia will be established at the Bureau's office downstairs. I am opening a session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001. I would like to inform you that, according to official record, today's session is attended by 136 MPs. The ostensible information is obvious. To determine the quorum for the work of the Assembly please insert your identification cards. I find that we have a quorum for the work and decision of the National Assembly. I would like to inform you that I have approved the absence of the following MPs: Srđa Popovic, Dusan Prorokovic, Kosti Nikolic, Ljubisa Maravic, Dusan Ilic, Dejan Mihajlov, Ljubo Slavković, Vlatka Sekulovic, Marko Jakšić, Vuk Antonijevic, Dragisa Djokovic, Goran Ciric, Nedi Arnerić, Pal Shandoru, Malank Shandor, Aleksandri Sajkov and Goran Ciric. I would like to inform you that the sittings were invited to be attended by the President and Vice-President of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, Ministers of the Government of the Republic of Serbia, the Secretary of the Government of the Republic of Serbia and the Secretary of the Republic of the Legislative Secretariat. Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, with a call for the Fourth Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, which was called at the request of a group of 138 MPs of the Democratic Opposition Group of Serbia, pursuant to Article 79(3). The Constitution of the Republic of Serbia and Article 162. The Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia have been sent to you for the holding of the Fourth Extraordinary Session, with the agenda set out in that request. As you could see, for the fourth extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia in 2001, the following DAY RED: 1. Termination of office and selection of judicial holders. We move to the 1st point of the agenda: – Stopping the functioning and selection of the legal officers within this item of the agenda, you have received proposals from the Committee for Justice and Administration, and this is: 1. Proposal for a decision to suspend the function of the public prosecutor, 2. Proposal for a decision on the election of the President of the General Court, and 3. A proposal for a decision to elect the president of Serbia's Supreme Court. I propose that a single search be carried out on the draft decision on the termination of the functions of public prosecutors and the proposals for decisions on the selection of judicial holders, and that the National Assembly make a special statement on each proposal. I ask the MPs, if there are no other proposals, to put in their identification cards to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting this motion to the vote. I conclude the vote and I find that 153, against no one with abstentions, has voted 19, a total of 172 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly unanimously accepted this proposal. Consent to Article 156. Rules of Procedure, I am opening a single search on the motions for decisions on the termination of office and the selection of judicial holders. Pursuant to Article 92(1), Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I suggest we limit the duration of exposure to five minutes. Any other suggestions? No, there isn't. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I ask the MPs to vote on the proposal to limit the duration of the discussion to this point of the agenda for five minutes. I conclude the vote, and I find that 122 votes against 46, with no abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 175 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has mostly voted in favour of this proposal. Does the Proposer's representative want a word? He wants to. ) The word is Dragore Hiber.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1090	Ladies and gentlemen, the Committee on Justice and Administration of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has arrived from the Republic Public Prosecutor's Office a proposal to resolve the prosecutor's office, on its own request, District Attorney General Andrija Milutinovic, Municipal Public Prosecutor in the Second Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Milan Jovanovic, Municipal Public Prosecutor in the Third Public Prosecutor's Office, Milan Petkovic. At the same time, a motion for discharge came from the Republic Public Prosecutor for his retirement as the municipal public prosecutor at the First Municipal Public Prosecutor's Office in Belgrade, Milan Bajic. In accordance with the Law on Public Prosecutors and Rules of Procedure, the Committee on Justice and Administration has unanimously decided to give an agreement, i.e. a positive opinion on these proposals. We propose to the National Assembly that those prosecutors be resolved, as you have received in your written proposal for a decision. The Committee for Justice and Administration of the National Assembly decided to propose to the National Assembly of Serbia the appointment of holders of certain judicial functions. These proposals were adopted following broad consultations, which included the following institutions: Serbia's Supreme Court, which was sent to the list of initiatives set out, and Serbia's Supreme Court did not declare itself as a body, but the deputy president, i.e. the acting president of this court, Mr Stojanovic participated in the debate on these proposals, supported them; the parliamentary chamber of the Republic of Serbia, which supported all these proposals at the meeting of the Management Board, and its representative participated in the Committee's work, so he transferred this support; Belgrade's Bar, given that it was the Belgrade courts, whose Board of Directors also supported these proposals and whose representative participated in the Committee's work. You received suggestions and biographies from the candidates in writing with the material for the session. I would just like to say that the proposals have been identified by the majority of votes, that two members of the Committee have not voted in favour of these proposals, but that, if I pass on well, and I ask them to listen to this, did not express the reserves in relation to the proposed candidates, but that their disagreement is the result of their disagreement with the decisions on the previous agenda points, that is, in relation to the resolution of the President of the Courts. This relative consensus reached on the Committee and in the expert public shows that it is candidates whose work in the judiciary so far guarantees that the judiciary will be won in judicial and administrative functions, and in these cases which are subject to debate, extremely high-quality judges, with rich judicial experience, as well as people of high moral profile. I therefore personally support this proposal. I suggest that the National Assembly adopt them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1091	Are there any members of the Committee who took their opinion? No, I don't. If not, is one of the presidents of the parliamentary groups answering for a word? No, I don't. ) If not, the word has a People's MP, Bozidar Vucurovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1092	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, Mr. Hiber, you are truly full of surprises. Not only do you surprise us MPs, but you surprise both judges, and lawyers, and professional associates and interns, even court scribes, and I mean myself. I understand that the new government needs to bring newspapers into the political, economic and every other life in this country, but in the judiciary there are esnafian rules. There are principles that have been grown in these areas since the beginning of the first courts. At least by now, those principles and those rules have been respected. The number one principle in selecting the President of the Courts was that the judge elected as the president of the lower court must at least once have been a judge in the higher court. So, in order to become the president of the municipal court, you should have at least been the judge of the county court by now. None of the court's proposed presidents have been a judge of the high court for a single day. At least, principle number two has so far been to make the presidents of the court the guilty judges. (A voice from the O.R.: "By what law? "I'm not talking about laws, I'm talking about principles. Since the President of the District Court, neither the first nor the second, nor the fourth, have seen a single criminal case so far. Only Mr. Glavas was in criminal matter for a while. According to your leaders' statements, you're preparing for a dozen arrests, trials, court proceedings and so forth. And who will guide you with these actions, and who will prepare them? The litigators? You will not condemn people because they have moved between, or because they have trampled someone's hen, you will condemn people for actions that predict high sentences to prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1093	I'm asking you to stick to the agenda theme. It is not about whom they will be judged, but who will judge.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1094	I'm just talking about who's going to judge. The litigators will be tried.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1095	You're talking about how they're going to be tried.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1096	Yesterday we replaced the presidents of these municipal courts. We all know that, and if there were dirty jobs in those courts, the dirty work was done not by the president of the courts directly, but by their deputies or by the presidents of the council. And so Mrs. Vida Petrovic Skero, she was head of the litigation department, in a court in which she is now elected president. Mrs. Gordana Mihailovic was the deputy president of the court. Mr. Nebojsa, you're the deputy president of the court. Mr. Gjorge Mirkovic, head of the litigation department. The presidents are not good, and the deputies and department heads are good. Very logical. In the famous Mr Simic, who has the amazing nickname Jimmy Bark, you wrote that he is not a member of any party. You should have written, if that's true, that he's no longer a member of any party. He was a member of the SPS. The committee wrote that he had professional and moral qualities in mind first. This isn't what I'm saying. This is what your candidates say. They say their only quality was that they signed support for Judge Miroslav Todorovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1097	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1098	If that was the only quality, on this list of judges you sent back to the judge's office yesterday, you had a lot more quality people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1099	Mr. Seselj, the People's MP has the word.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1100	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today is a political decision on matters concerning the judiciary. A decision that is not well thought out and that is ideologically motivated. Among those judges who are freed from judicial functions are those who deserve to be relieved, but also those who have not earned it, but you resolve them because they are not ideologically similar to you. It's not something I'm particularly interested in here, nor am I greatly affected by those who will be resolved, nor by those who will be chosen. We've had mostly negative experience with each other. However, this debate is a good reason to launch an initiative to lead this assembly to a thorough debate on the situation in the judiciary at all. I agree that there have been major objections to the behaviour of the judicial system in the past period. There were a lot of problems. There was ideological and party interference in the work of the courts. The shift in power has not improved the situation, but has continued to deteriorate. That power, which fell in October of the month, was bad authority. But in that poor government, it did not happen that the minister of justice announced the shift of the president of the courts: the Supreme, the District, the Municipal and so on. That, as much as my memory serves, never happened. It's happening in your system. It's impossible in any modern democracy, where the principle of strict division of power is respected. The executive authority must not interfere with this. Political parties can criticise judges, court presidents, to demand a shift and so on. Political parties can do anything, verbally. But whoever has the instruments of administrative authority in their hands can't. The Minister of Justice must not. Because the minister of justice needs to worry that the courts have enough money, that they are painted, enough buildings, they have to worry about adequate conditions of enforcement of criminal sanctions, to provide apartments for judges, decent salaries and other things. It's the office of the minister of justice. It's a judicial policy that the government is involved in. The Minister of Justice must not interfere with the human rights issues of the judiciary. This is where the whole government gets involved, and it's open, because it's the government that's ignorant. They have no idea he can't do that. They think it's natural. They remember Tito and his weights so that judges can't stick to the law like a drunk float. That's how they're acting now. That's why what you're doing is wrong. Further, days, weeks, months, here is the announcement of the trial of some political figures from the former government. The biggest scandal has taken place so far with Dragoljub Milanovic's arrest. You can laugh to the will, but once you smile, too, because Dragoljub Milanovic laughed when we were in jail. He laughed just as much, gentlemen, as you are now laughing. He attacked us on state television, and we were in jail for making up guilt. They packed up a shooting in Gjilan, even though none of us had a gun. You're using the same methods, worse. That's the problem. Because if you've introduced a method of links between political opponents, who can protect you from another link? Think of yourself. And those who had been in power before have acted in this manner, much milder, though, so what had happened to them. We, Radical, can't get any worse than what's been happening to us before, so that doesn't get us tangled up. Dragoljub Milanovic has been arrested for beating the blame for the victims of the state television bombing.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1101	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1102	The highest state officials received with honor the man who ordered the bombing - Javier Solana. So whoever bombed it wasn't his fault, it was the one who was the director of the bombed facility. It doesn't matter who talked, I give my opinion. You can't concentrate on me like that, and you can't stop me from saying what I'm about to say. This chaos that you have created and the chaos that is increasingly manifested in your heads, nothing good can do Serbia. Only a much worse situation could happen than the one you produced in October of the month. The humiliation of the Serbian people by having Javier to Solan will leave you with a stain that your descendants will be ashamed of: sons, grandchildren, great-grandsons. There's nothing more you can do to correct that shame. You who laugh show you don't know what shame is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1103	Mr. Seselj, I'm asking you to stick to the subject.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1104	This is the topic and I'm talking about it my way. Mr. President, you can't give me instructions on how I'm going to elaborate my opinion on the subject. This is within the agenda, as far as the judiciary is concerned, regarding the election of the president of the courts who received ideological orders from your parties to prosecute political opponents, to seduce terror in Serbia.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1105	So, I'm sorry, I didn't notice that connection.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1106	Terror in Serbia has begun. That's why we're voting against your human resources in the judiciary. We will not admit your ideological courts, and we warn you, in front of the Serbian public, that this condition that you are designing in the Serbian judiciary can, above all, be broken down by your head, and in Serbia will create the conditions of chaos, lawlessness and anarchy.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1107	The word is made by MP Joca Arsic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1108	President-in-Office, honourable Members of Parliament, shortly before the chairman of the Committee on Justice, who was in charge of this proposal, said that this assembly should appoint the presidents of the courts, beginning with the President of the Supreme Court, through the district, to the municipal court, in places where the presidents are either relieved or have resigned earlier. That finding is correct, because it's not about choice, it's about appointment. He could not say otherwise, and in the law, as well as in the agenda of this assembly, proposed by a group of DOS deputies, it is said that the choice of legal holders is being made. Appointing and choosing are two different things. The election requires more candidates, an election needs a contest, an election needed to declare and the colleges of these courts, for the election to be declared, and someone else, while, as I said, there are more candidates. This time it wasn't done. The Committee's proposal for appointment came before this assembly, not on the agenda, on the election of presidents and legal holders. This is a fundamental observation that is very important, because the way we will appoint presidents and legal holders will put them on the mortgage. The second thing is that the only thing that has been stated here is that a consultation has been carried out with the acting president of the Supreme Court, and in the second position, that consultations have been carried out with the legal chambers. Please, are the only legal chambers in this country asking questions and giving consultations on the conduct of human rights policy in the judiciary? Is this a practice introduced by a new minister, who I hope before, was a lawyer, since it is incompatible with the law profession and is performing this function in the government? In doing so, we know that certain chambers of commerce have introduced the practice of not receiving in their membership people to resolve and have now performed some of the judicial functions. I don't think such an explanation can be acceptable and it's not good because of the integrity and mortgage of these people, which, in this way, we're going to force us to choose them today, or, as is true, the chairman of the Justice Committee has said, we're going to appoint them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1109	The People's MP Miroljub Veljkovic has the word, followed by MP Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1110	Dear People's MPs, the long announced creation of an independent judiciary in the country of Serbia began. To begin yesterday, DOS's majority in this assembly illegally and counter-constitutionally resolved several presidents in Belgrade, and then also illegally and counter-constitutionally abolished the previous National Assembly's decisions and returned several judges to the prosecution. Good start. The start of the creation of an independent judiciary directed by DOS for several months has been announced by Mr Batic. Visiting the media, which is all free and independent by the way, he has been announcing an iron broom in court for months now. His revolutionary enthusiasm has scared even the candidates for the holders of judicial functions, on which you DOS are counting. Yesterday, you mentioned Judge Todorovic, and you cannot force honest, honest, honest people to participate in dishonest, illegal and unfair actions. These people that the Committee on Justice and the Administration of the National Assembly has proposed for the holders of judicial functions, I don't know. I guess they're professional and honest people, I guess they'll judge and judge by law. The personnel are from Belgrade, and I live in Vranjska Banja. I cannot say anything about their professional, as well as moral qualities, but therefore, gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I know your candidates, for example, in the Rasca County. The fact that you're here, especially yesterday, with fire and mytings talking about an independent judiciary and the law of the state, it's just empty stories. All of us who come from the interior know that your revolutionary committees have long had lists of judicial officials who are ready for the shooting and lists of new, so-called independent candidates for the holders of judicial functions. If you had the courage, you MPs from DOS, and elementary honesty, you could already dictate here today almost all of the holders of judicial functions throughout the country, which, of course, we will be selecting according to the legal procedure at the next National Assembly sessions. And citizens in those smaller communities already know who will be the new president of the court, new public prosecutors and so on. For this little unscheduled staff, your MPs these four days, I watch them, they die fighting in the halls of this congregation and in the restaurant, and it's not easy, because 18 parties -- they need to settle all these interests. You're telling us about an independent judiciary and how it's finally going to work out for the rule of law. What does it look like to you to be doing in the judiciary? Let this story be served. Two days ago, I'm asking one of your MPs from the DOS parliamentary group -- well, I said, what are you changing that and that president of the court when you and I both know that he's an honorable and honest man, a top professional, and you're changing him with a candidate who could never be said to possess those qualities? He looked at me like that and the Japanese answered me -- you know what, he was the president of the court during the last regime. So these are definitely your criteria when selecting the holders of judicial functions. It's your independent judiciary. I really wonder what the people will say, what you promised the people in pre-election campaigns, in September and December. (Kadomir Jovanovic, from the place: Change. I see what changes are like.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1111	The word has a National MP, Stevo Dragisic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1112	Ladies and gentlemen, talking about this agenda item is impossible without bringing into close contact with the last two points of the previous session that we finished yesterday. First of all, I have to say, this isn't about the names of judges who have been cleared, or the names of people who come to new functions. All these names are almost anonymous to the general public, rarely any of the MPs present knows people who were released yesterday or who are today named for new functions. Of all these people, SRS MPs and the public in Serbia, she had the opportunity to hear perhaps only for the name of the already former President of the Fourth Municipal Court, Vladimir Ilic, who in 1996 as president of the Municipal Election Commission, along with the then secretary of the Municipal Election Commission, participated in financial malversions. It is all about some reasons and data that might have some additional impact on the decision-making of MPs in these benches. However, what is essential, what these three points are already leading to is the realization of the DOS leader's announcement, and above all I think of Minister Batic, who said it is necessary to prepare the Serbian judiciary for seducing order in the state. The preparations have obviously begun. First, some judges who are not in close contact with the current regime are relieved, apparently new judges who are similar to that order in the country Mr Batic is talking about are being brought in. Judging from his further statements here, it's obviously about the intention of a new regime to arrest some political opponents, by pressing charges, we'll see now for what reasons, implement their intention to put all these people behind bars. The most recent example is the arrest of Dragoljub Milanovic. However, to abolish the independence of the judiciary, to abolish the independence of the exercise of judicial office, it also speaks of the way these three decisions were made. That way, he tells all the other judges who were not covered by neither the resolution nor the appointment that the new majority in the Assembly could make any decision, regardless of the procedure necessary for the decision to be taken. The best example was the annulment of decisions made earlier by the congregation. In order for the minister of justice to come out and say, if the Assembly can pass the law, it can cancel it, so whoever can do more can do less, and that's the basis for us to make a decision to annul the decision. That is true, if added only so primitively, freely, if I may add, the Assembly can do less, but under certain conditions. Some conditions must be met so that the Assembly can undo its earlier decision. The constitution empowers the Assembly to repeal the law, to put aside the law it has passed, provided that the law is declared unconstitutional. A congregation decision cannot be annulled simply because, without doubting the competence of the people sitting on the Justice Committee, they have concluded that the decision is against the law or is made in an unconstitutional way. In order for the Assembly to do so, there must be a decision of the Constitutional Court. It's a legal basis. There was no legal basis. No one has declared an unconstitutional decision. Making decisions, as you can imagine, with no doubt a political interest, you have demonstrated that you will do in this congregation as you wish, regardless of the procedure necessary for making those decisions. You destroyed legal security in Serbia yesterday, which was still on thin feet. By changing the regime and making some decisions, which are your will, and by repealing decisions that were not your will, without respect for the legal procedure, there is no legal certainty in Serbia today. Because you have demonstrated that legal certainty is not important to you, other judges have received a lesson from this session and it can be said that the preparation for the arrest has been well carried out.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1113	Since we no longer have registered speakers (the ambassadors from the O.R.), so come on, sign up, don't let me close the debate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1114	Mr. President, it is your duty to ask if anyone else is answering for a word, and then to close the search, and the president of the parliamentary group has the right three times during the debate on one item of the agenda to answer. I'll be in touch for the first time. Today's debate on the single agenda, the fourth extraordinary session of the Republika Srpska Assembly, is essentially under a large shadow. The shadow has two causes -- the first cause was yesterday, at the third extraordinary session of this assembly, when we resolved the presidents of the District and Municipal Courts, here, in this room, your majority, not respecting the procedure of the Law on the Judiciary, not giving the presidents of these courts a chance to stand up for their defenses, or to gain insight into the quality of their work. Simply, the first shadow is a flat-rate approach and an assessment of a certain situation in a particular system, in the case of a judicial system. The second shadow is placed on this point by MPs of the government of the Republic of Serbia, who directly show that they do not understand it, or do it unsettledly, that the judicial system is essentially absolutely independent and that the minister has no right to pre-prognosis what will and how the judicial authorities will do. However, the consequences of such performances are an opportunity for us to see these days as well. I already mentioned the most dramatic example yesterday, which is the arrest of Dragoljub Milanovic. Then I said, gentlemen, I expect, if such an approach as advocated by high-ranking officials in the Government of the Republic of Serbia finds a standoff in the judicial authorities, I expect that the federal police minister will be arrested very soon, because as mayor Nisa did not close the market just the day the aggressors decided to throw the tape bombs at Nis, that he would be arrested by the director of the Railways of Serbia, because he let the train go through the Gredic gorge, but gentlemen, I did not say that there would be irony, that I expect General Pavkovic to be arrested because he did not remove the Yugoslav Army in Bulgaria, as NATO reported that he would bomb the Yugoslav Army here. However, this shadow, which stands above this election today, must not be questioned against the people who choose. Believing in the high professional qualities of today's candidate for very high judicial functions, above all for the post of Serbian Supreme Court President and finally their resistance to such influences, putting their resistance to such influences, the SPS Parliamentary Group, solely because we are convinced that yesterday's two points of unrespected legality will be maintained.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1115	The word has been given to the People's Messenger Dusan Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1116	Dear President, the Presidency, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I don't know why it was so necessary to talk so much about the proposal for this decision, when it seemed to me it was indisputable, and it did, and it must be undeniable that the situation in the judiciary was disastrous. It's been said that decisions are illegal. And how illegal, when the judges involved in the election theft were dismissed, how illegal when there are so many pending cases? That's why we're competent, first of all, to work in the judiciary. I've been a lawyer for over 30 years. This is about the judge's obedience. Ladies and gentlemen, were there any more obedient judges than in the previous regime and in Broz's communism before him. What were the criteria at the time - the party's booklet, and then, it was known that many judges had called before the verdict a mandatory committee and the prosecution not to talk. It is our desire and our attempt to get the judiciary on its good feet, thus helping this society on the edge of hopelessness, thus helping to develop a modern and better Serbia. Let's not criticize in advance. It was a pre-election promise and we're obliged to do it. The holders of judicial functions must be independent, they must be honorable and professional people. So let's not plant lies. I haven't seen many examples so far that someone should be working in a higher court to become president of a municipal court. On the contrary, the rule is that the president of the municipal court is recruited from the municipal court, among the judges who have shown the best results, which have expertise, which have human qualities and those judges who already have the necessary experience after years. That's why we need to talk about the real thing, and not be distracted. The judiciary we believe to build first of all must be professional, must be independent and must be subject to criticism, and of course, must not be at all in proportion or depending on the executive authority. That's what, ladies and gentlemen, that we haven't had in 50 years, that's what today's public prosecutor extended the hand of a police officer, and he hasn't handled custody, even though our Code of Criminal Procedure is really, when read, one of the best, very good, he's never in practice applied. Here it is also lamented over the fate of Mr Milanovic. So why, gentlemen? There's a series of laws there. If the investigation confirms that he is not guilty, and you will see that if there is a case, a fair and fair trial, he will be released, of course, and he will be able to claim compensation, and it is nothing disputed. That is why we should focus in the discussion on what the proposal for a decision is. Some judges also complained that they had no professional quality. Well, please, the previous regime has, by one illegal decision, driven out of the Serbian judiciary of their fins. If that were the case, it says best and the fact that no one said anything against the candidate for Serbian Supreme Court, Mr Leposava Karamarkovic. We, once again, are going to say, and with that conclusion, we are going to rely on professional people and the judiciary, as well as everything in this country, will be subject to criticism. Therefore, it is not up to us to talk about the draft decision for marketing purposes, but to look back on what is the goal and what we all want to achieve. That's the point of the problem, not criticizing something in advance. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1117	National MP, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1118	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Budishin was right in the first part of his two-thirds exposure. Indeed, in communist-tytoistic times, there were many judges and public prosecutors who acted against the law, against conscience, and on the orders of party committees. But there were lawyers like that at the time. The lawyers were no better than the judges and prosecutors. And in the past, there were judges who didn't want to step on their honor and cheeks. Rare cases of prosecutors have been known to refuse to judge by the orders of the party committees. But there were lawyers spying on their clients and serving party committees and UDBs. That dark weather should probably stay behind us, not that DOS restores it now. You're restoring that dark weather. You restored it yesterday. You have made a decision to put aside the previous decision of the National Assembly on the resolution of individual Judges. It can't. That's unconstitutional. You were supposed to re-open the contest and select all those judges. All these people choose as judges again. But you couldn't put aside the resolution decision. That was unconstitutional. By the decisions of your party committees or by the decisions of William Montgomery at the US Embassy in Belgrade. You could have done that. (Comment from the O.R.) Saddam Hussein. You know, you can tell Saddam Hussein what you want. But I'm proud of my friendship with Saddam Hussein, because Saddam Hussein has proved to be a friend of our people and of our country many times, and you're working with the worst enemy of our people and of our country. [[Laughter]] You've received Javier Solana and you're not ashamed. What does that mean? You're American exhibits here. That's how history will remember you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1119	Mr. Seselj, please stick to the agenda. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1120	You, Mr. President, should first seduce the order in the Assembly Hall, and then possibly beg me to stick to the agenda. Why do they get it?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1121	The reaction, that is, tossing them, is the reaction to... yesterday's session.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1122	I have the right to respond to this phone booth as well as to their reaction. Especially if you didn't react, if you missed your reaction.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1123	Then it would be good for you to return to the agenda without the MPs earning.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1124	I didn't step away from the agenda once. You know, it's the easiest thing for ignorants to laugh because they don't have arguments. [[Laughter]] Blessed is he who knows nothing. You're blessed in your ignorance, and you're very nice. You're not even aware of the shame that awaits you, and that's what makes you feel good. It doesn't matter. [[You can't hear a comment from the gym.]] This is where Mr. Budishin advocated a preventive arrest. You know, people get arrested on reasonable suspicion that they've committed a crime. And here common sense shows above all that there can be no reasonable doubt. For a week, 15 days before the national television bombing, we all assumed that it would be bombed and national television. Everyone. And the reporters of that house. And executives, and we politicians. We were all guessing and waiting for when. But if it had been moved, it wouldn't have been an old building bombed, it would have been that place it was moved to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1125	Mr. Seselj, this is not a courtroom and we do not judge Mr. Milanovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1126	This is where you judge and how, Mr. President. Half an hour can't remain a secret new location for state television if it gets out, but state television can't be a legitimate military goal under international war law. That's the point. It's not a legitimate military goal. And, you can't have someone doing their job in an object that's not a legitimate military goal being responsible for having that facility bombed. The programme of state television could not be suspended (the president reminds the order by ringing the bell). If we had known from the government that night that state television would be bombed, we'd probably have informed the mother of the information minister Alexander Vukic to get out of the building. She was in the building when the building was bombed. Do you know that she was the mother of Minister Vukic? (Glass - theme. )
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1127	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1128	Will you let me finish, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1129	Yes, please, but make sure your time is up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1130	I take care of the weather, but you know that distracting my time can only extend, it can't be shortened.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1131	Yeah, I know that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1132	All right. And, to conclude, that you'll admit to someone after he's innocently been in prison and compensated for the damage, as a lawyer, you know what that means, in any system, that one day the prison is worth a million, $10 million. There's no money to make it up to. What reasons required a preventive arrest? Why the arrest now? Why not the arrest in October, since you've been talking about it. For what? We who have an elementary legal education must understand that thing. Was there any danger of escape from the country? Was there any danger of affecting the witnesses? What witnesses? Which are secret lists that are strictly kept confidential. That's an explanation. I read that from the press. The press today is what your regime is. There's no difference. What's that? What is it that one man, who I personally have nothing good to say, had to be arrested? What's that? We need to know that as citizens, because when we say it, someone has been arrested on reasonable suspicion, which is a reasonable suspicion. What crime is that? Is that by Republic or federal criminal law? What crime was he arrested for? What crime is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1133	Mr. Seselj, I'm warning you a second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1134	Let me get this straight. Try as a lawyer to explain to us what the crime is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1135	We're opening a circle of replicas now, excellent. He has the word Mr. Budishin.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1136	Mr. President, it'll only take me one minute to say, and I've been mentioned twice. First of all, it's called a lawyer. That's what justice is like. It's bad, it's not controversial. He's ruined the regime before, like all other segments of society that he's ruined. And the lawyer is in terrible shape. So that's one thing. Second, don't plant it on me, it bothers me a little, something I didn't say. I wasn't talking about a preventive arrest. The Communists for 30 and change years, how many internships I have, set me up forever to say something. Please don't do that again. I didn't say - preventive arrest and you know very well that there are three legal reasons for determining detention. Three legal reasons. According to the assessment of one who is authorized to appreciate and decide, one of those three reasons exists. Let us leave the people who are invited to do so, who are responsible and who are paid to decide on this in the end line. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1137	Replica, Mr. Seselj.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1138	Mr. Budishin was supposed to say at least one reason here as a lawyer. What are the reasons for the arrest? The first reason is if there's a danger of a repeat crime. Is that right? There's another reason, if there's a possibility that the suspect escapes and avoids any punishment. There's a third reason he can influence witnesses or hide evidence. How can he, since you beat him up like that on October 5th and kicked him out of his job against the law, to cover up evidence and influence witnesses. Then what's the reason for his arrest? You've jumped into your own mouth, Mr. Budishin. As for the situation in the judiciary, in the judiciary, in the prosecution and the lawyers, it's not the situation of the previous government, it's those before. The situation in the previous government was something better than Tito's and post-it's communist time. Something better, as far as we can measure. But what's the way out of it? Simply to pass the law, it is prohibited for all those who were judges, prosecutors and lawyers in communist times to be more involved in these affairs. It's the only way out of it then. It is one thing to question judges, lawyers and prosecutors with the power of public opinion, with the power of serious parliamentary debates on their work and behaviour and strict, clear regulations, to which they will be required. If we can't, then we can chase them all down, and we can pick a whole new one. It's just, is that a solution? We as a people have the consequences of the half-century communist dictatorship and we who were anti-communist dissidents and convicted of it and those who persecuted us. Some more, some less, but no one remained immune to that dictatorship we lived in. So things need reforming. Of course, you are not supporters of the reform but of the revolution, but after your revolution a new one may come. Remember the Jacobian experience. It's an experience of its own, and it's waiting for you if you keep it that way. What we warned the left-wing parties earlier, that the opposition should be treated in the way that we would like to be treated when we become an opposition one day, is what everyone should stick to. You treat left-wing parties and the opposition in general much worse than left-wing parties to you. You can't blame a Serbian radical stranger for treating the opposition this way, because as political opponents, we verbally attacked you, but there were no repressive measures. Furthermore, what you're doing in the judicial system in connection with the abolition of the Information Law is also a disgrace to your kind. I guess it's a much more serious crime when someone innocent in the press is accused of something he didn't do, but it's a fine for whoever's lying in the media, but there's a twisted system of values in you. What's anti-value for you is the highest value. That's how your authority behaves.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1139	Mr. President, honourable MPs, in Article 102, it is said that the speaker can only talk about the issue on the agenda. I believe colleagues don't know what's on the agenda. Termination of office and selection of judicial holders. It's not on the agenda or Saddam Hussein, I don't even know who. I'd like to ask you to finish the job today. There's no reason to talk about Madeline Albright or I don't know who. I'm warning you, Mr. President, because we can vote whether or not the Rules of Procedure have been injured. Don't let them bully you here for hours today.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1140	Mr. Sutanovac, you know what resources are available to the president, or whoever is chairing this assembly. As I can't get Mr. Seselj in line, if I may say so, to bring order to work in the Rules of Procedure, I also can't get you in line so as not to throw him when he breaks that order. If I apply the Rules of Procedure, I have to apply it the same way to you and to him. I would look forward to it if at least the vast majority of the MPs would stick to this Rules of Procedure, so those who don't keep it very well isolated and very well in front of the cameras showed that they are different from the ones who stick to the order. Of course, there were violations of the Rules of Procedure, of course there were topics that were not on the agenda, of course there were four MPs here, not only Mr. Seselj, who opened the trial of Mr. Milanovic in an attempt to make some of his unfulfilled ambitions -- judges', lawyers', prosecutors' and police's -- come true after a pay phone, but Mr. Seselj was not alone. There were three more. And of course there have been violations of the Rules of Procedure, both in the position of 1 and in the position of 2 and in the position of 3 of Article 102.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1141	Mr. President, I didn't mention anyone's name. So neither Mr. Seselj nor any other MP. I'm just asking us to be expedient and stick to the subject. In the first attitude, it is said that there can be only talk about the subject. It is the second, the third, the fifth, the fifth, the fifth attitude. Respect first and no one will throw away.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1142	Mr. President, you should first be informed of what your function is in this House. You're the first of the equals here, you're just a speaker of parliament and nothing else, and you can't put anyone in line here. There were various presidents here before you. Some have led the police to beat us, but so rude as you have never been remembered here.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1143	The Rules of Procedure, which you know very well, stands, Article 32, indent 3. - The president of the National Assembly takes care of the application of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Aging on the application of the Rules of Procedure is an insistence on respecting the Rules of Procedure. The insistence on respecting the Rules of Procedure is to bring order to all MPs, including you. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: How stupid!) How your mother gave birth to you so stupid. I'm surprised, too, and I'm surprised to read this note to you. In Article 104, too, he writes -- about the order of the National Assembly session, the president of the National Assembly, so he was stupid, not stupid, just writing it. (Vojislav Seselj, from the place: Is custody about getting in order? Please don't throw away. I didn't give you my word. You have the word the third time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1144	You know what, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1145	Keep an eye on that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1146	This is just a replica to you. This is two minutes of replica to you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1147	You asked for a word for the third time on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1148	This is a replica of you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1149	Here's to the replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1150	This government has introduced a fine practice, I hope it will be held, that all ministers will undergo medical examinations, including psychiatric examinations. I don't know what the medical records are. They say some psychiatrists got sick after those tests. However, it would not be bad for these medical, including psychiatric examinations, to submit to the president and vice president of the National Assembly, but not only to submit, but to get reports of their health here, which we will keep secret.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1151	As far as I'm concerned, the proposal has been accepted. Here you go, Mr. Ivkovic. That's the second call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1152	Ladies and gentlemen of the Parliament, I am going out for a pay phone to withdraw all applications for the discussion given by the Socialist Party of Serbia. I just want to say that it is indeed the interest of the citizens of Serbia to have 250 MPs here, no matter what function we are in, the leadership or as ordinary MPs, we are really discussing all issues related to the problem of life and creation in this country. It is certain that the opposition MPs should understand what makes small excursions out of the agenda, because the whole news reports themselves in the coming days, you understand and understand how present and emphasized what they were trying to emphasize, such as the suspension of the tax, and nothing is said about their own transformation. Never mind. Anyway, I'm withdrawing the SPS MPs' applications. I want to point out that we are truly convinced that there is one great shadow over this agenda point, because of the illegal decisions at the last two points. Yesterday, when we illegally dismissed the presidents of district and municipal courts, when we illegally decided to repeal the decisions of the old parliament, but because of the people who were asked, because of their professional and not doubtful, moral qualities, by putting their resistance to the influence of the leaders of political terror's opinion, we decided not to be against, but to be abstentioned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1153	The People's Messenger Rodoljub Sabic has the word, and after him is the Messenger of the people, Tomislav Nikolic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1154	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, today we have a proposal to appoint judicial functions. What does that just mean? A group of judges are due today or not to be elected presidents of certain courts. This means, therefore, that what we first need to discuss is the question of their moral, professional, and other references. I didn't hear during the debate that anyone, in any way, questioned any proposed candidate. Therefore, the question absorbs the answer whether to choose them, in itself it imposes itself. It's about prominent, qualified function holders and they deserve to be the president of their courts. By the way, if it should be added, given some imputation, that there are some political (not understood), it is about people who are not party members, who have never engaged politically. Well, there's no interference here either. I think it was too much to turn, and I'm warning you for the second or third time from this pay phone, the debate and this agenda point into something that's characteristic of the interpretation debate. Now that that's done, I'll let myself say that to myself. So, I don't know which way from this pay phone from the representatives of opposition parties I hear that the case is about the initiation of criminal proceedings and the determination of detention against Mr Milanovic, former director of RTS, the twilight of democracy, that this is something that has nothing to do with the normal functioning of the judiciary and the like. You should have warned the head of your parliamentary group, sir, when we're talking about it. So, I accept and share the opinion of all those who have expressed in this room the position behind the independence of the judiciary. There's no dispute there. If you are already in favour of the independence of the judiciary, then the public works, gentlemen, should be told which prosecutor submitted the motion to determine the detention of Mr Milanovic. So, this is the same prosecutor who was setting up detention and initiating a criminal trial, which was only a few months ago, asked against Mr Boris Tadic and Nebojsa Covic. I didn't notice, gentlemen, that at that time someone was talking about the twilight of democracy and endangering the independence of the judiciary and politicizing the judiciary. If anyone already advocates an independent judiciary, he must refrain from commenting on the individual judicial solution in this congregation. He can't comment on anyone who's been resolved on determining custody or anything else. It's your business, Mr. Seselj, and I'm saying it's a false charge. One word, gentlemen, back to the agenda. No one has challenged any proposed candidate.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1155	Mr. Ivkovic, I didn't give you my word, because I don't know on what basis you're answering. There's no mention of a name, no MP's group, no one else I can give a word to. Go ahead, then, and play.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1156	I'm going out for the pay phone again, and I already said I think I'm pulling MP SPS's calls, because I think the time is slowly going to vote. But I am not comfortable any time when MP Sabic, vice-president of the assembly, responded to remarks from the SPS, mentioned me and also said it had nothing to do with the judiciary this with Dragoljub Milanovic. And what difference does it make? Nothing more.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1157	Replica? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1158	I got the first word. As far as I know, Mr. Shabic is a lawyer. And a lawyer should know that the public of all citizens can comment on all procedures and all decisions of the judicial authorities. As MPs, we can talk about everything, but courts must not act on the basis of a public opinion campaign that has been under way for months. As a result of that campaign, to be the arrest of a man. Well, that's what we've been through. Courts should be criticised because courts are one branch of government. Every authority should be subject to fierce and thorough criticism. And then when she's guilty and then she's not guilty. Inappropriate criticism is a useful criticism, but it must not be a branch of government acting on the pressures of parties, associations, media etc. If there has already been an expert debate here, and Mr Budisin, and Mr Sabic and I are lawyers, they have no answer to the basic legal issues, which criminal act, according to which member of the republican or federal criminal law is detained Dragoljub Milanovic? What member is that?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1159	Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1160	Mr. President, gentlemen of Parliament, Mr. President himself mentioned that in article 104, he said that the order of the National Assembly session is taken care of by the president of the National Assembly, and in article 106, it is said when a reminder is given to the MP. Now let's not name it all. One thing he says is, if he's using swearing and insulting expressions, just for the sake of order, and Mr. President said he's going to stick to the order, and I've been trying to get some gentlemen and four years to ask them not to upset the Assembly, I haven't done it, now again and again I'm asking the president to stick to the order and give the gentleman a warning, publicly, because he insulted Mr. President and I'm asking you to do it. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1161	Thank you, sir, but I appreciate the weight of the insult by the weight of the one who pronounces them. The word of the messenger of the people is Tomislav Nikolic, and after him is the messenger of the people of Sredo (Mihail). [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1162	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, I was truly convinced that a new government came, which is not uncommunist. I've seen many of you take pictures with church dignitaries, and twice in this week you schedule sessions on large Serbian Orthodox holidays. Today is the Meeting of the Lord, a great holiday. Four presidents of the court, and one Supreme Court judge, could wait until tomorrow to give them new appointments. It didn't have to happen today. Holy Tri-Jerrah, we kind of forgave you, but Meeting, I expect if there is a Easter need for some of the judges to storm Serbia, that you will urgently invite us to an emergency session. To honor all MPs who have signed the motion. To honor the President of the Assembly, who schedules a session, which does not have a church calendar on it. If you really don't, we'll provide you, Mr. President, so make sure you try whenever any of the confesions have a big holiday, make sure we don't work that day, that we don't irritate the citizens who belong to that confession. This is where we heard the public is allowed to arrest people, only they can't defend people. No one wonders why it lasts for some people in the paper, but for months, and it's been launched by the Democratic Party, because they've become smart now, they're in charge of everyone in this country. There were 22-year-old kids who cared about the security of the state. They all know, they know who's supposed to be arrested, they're giving orders to independent media, they're running them through the glare for 15 days, and on the 16th day, a man goes to jail. We've had examples of me telling you just a little bit about the subject, since the topic is absolutely uninteresting for a wide range of citizens, this is an interesting topic only for DOS, which of your judges and presidents will be set up, I really don't care about that at all. You will do so across Serbia's cities, when you agree, when you agree on where the party's president will be, where he will be president of the party, but you will have trouble with Vladan Batic. He's being defected by everyone who wants to have functions. You won't be able to take those functions away from him that easily. I also knew this JUL in this assembly of the Republic of Serbia. The MPs are asking where the government is these days, to inform me, I've been informed that the VMA results have arrived and that many of them don't deserve to be sitting in these benches, waving on the shrink's findings. This country and people had opportunities during the monarchy, had opportunities during the communists and had opportunities during DOS to make a man sleep in one pack and wake up in another. It was for the people to fall asleep at night under Aleksandar Karadjordjevic, to abolish him during the night and restore the Constitution, only so that Aleksandar Karadjordjevic could implement the dictatorship. It was, under the communists, that a man pleaded for the Russians in the evening, and at night or morning to take him to prison on Goli Island for years. It is under you, gentlemen, that last night Leposava Karamarkovic died as a lawyer and that she woke up as president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. You call it what you want now. I call it dictatorship. I, as a representative of the minority in this congregation, easily recognize the dictatorship. And you, like one big one, don't find yourself offended, one big herd, you can't recognize it. You're led by leaders, and you won't get far. Think about it, gentlemen, of course you'll all vote today. I hope you'll secure the quorum. You've been working four days thanks to a quorum that provides for the opposition. I assume you'll be providing quorum today. I guess the hack can start. At the beginning of this week, I warned you that you had prepared a hack and that the hack was starting. Here you adopt different declarations, recommendations, meeting the heads of Parliament clubs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1163	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1164	I'm done. With regard to the arrest of Dragoljub Milanovic, you do not have the slightest idea of meeting the president of the parliamentary clubs. That's one example, that's one symbol. Today Dragoljub Milanovic, tomorrow Stevan Liliæ, due to plagiarities. You never know when anyone's gonna be arrested. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1165	The People's Messenger Sredoja Mihajlov has the word, followed by the People's Messenger Petar Jojic, and followed by the People's Messenger Mihajlo Markovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1166	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, it was expected when a new government came that it would change certain things in a positive sense. However, many things do not change positively, in that expected sense, and in line with those promises made in the election campaign. A reform of the judiciary has also been announced. I expected that judicial reform would cover the entire justice system in the Republic of Serbia. I think an urgent reform of the judicial system is necessary, not this partial. I am coming to the conclusion that I am beginning to suspect that this solution today, which is to be taken in the Republic's parliament, is to be appointed by the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia and the President of the First, Second, Third and Fourth Court, has led me to conclude and to doubt that this is a case against certain people who follow, because these people will be willing to approve and participate in the arrests. I heard some comments yesterday -- we need these as soon as possible, so we can arrest some individuals in Belgrade. I doubt that this award to these people is for the loyalty and loyalty of democratic power in Serbia. I'm beginning to doubt it, but we'll see how it's actually going to be carried out. I expected, as has been expected so far in the tradition of the Serbian judiciary, that the opinions of the College of Courts, to which elected elders of the judicial authorities come, would exist, and that the collective would declare itself to the candidate who was coming to take over the post of president and the elders of the judicial authorities. In our judiciary, it is incompatible that we have lawyers, prosecutors and judges of mates and family ties to such an extent that and how it affects the fair and proper application of the law and the functioning of the judicial system in general. I don't know if you'll return to serve as the judge of the First Municipal Court, Nenad Matovic. I don't know if it belongs to that group that's going back to the First Municipal Court or not, but it would be necessary, I'm not going to blame a man now, maybe it is, and maybe it isn't, whether he's being prosecuted for confirming his life support contract, after three or more months, the abandoner, or the persons who died. This needs to be checked whether it's true, and then the competent authorities of the Department of Justice and the Supreme Court react to this fact and to determine whether it's true or not, because that's what they're talking about. There is room for judicial reform for several reasons.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1167	The subject is not judicial reform.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1168	Thank you. Yesterday, there was talk of me going through courts, their offices, etc., but I just have to tell you that in these drawers and these closets and offices I found hundreds and hundreds of pending cases, and as a drastic example, I'm going to let you know that in the drawer of the President of the Municipal Court in Kursumlia, I found 1,200 criminal cases, against the Cypriot criminals who have become obsolete. I filed criminal charges against Radisa Jovic. Unfortunately, however, the judicial authorities have not acted until today, and he did not go to prison. He had to go to jail because it was a serious, very serious crime committed by an elder of a judicial authority. I expected all the courts to be covered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1169	Mr. Jojiæ, time, I warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1170	I expected it to be a reform of the judiciary in the right sense, and I expect the new government to respect the given and sworn word that the judiciary in Serbia will advance to a higher level, but it must be done by the government and the authorities, by having to raise salaries and judges who are working and that the salary of a judge or prosecutor should not at this time be below 1,000 marks, but also by requiring judges and prosecutors to perform their duties, securely and responsibly. When it comes to these four municipal courts in Belgrade, I think it was necessary to establish at the First, Second, Third and Fourth, where new presidents are coming in today, what is the situation in the Fourth Municipal Court where President Vladimir Ilic is.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1171	I remind you for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1172	Please, the situation in the Fourth Municipal Court must be determined when Vladimir Ilic is being replaced, all of his guilt and abuses that he has committed and brought here must be determined. Then it should be written to give to the new president and to form working groups that need to establish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1173	Is it the People's MP Natasa Jovanovic, about the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1174	Yes, about the Rules of Procedure. Unfortunately, my claims yesterday afternoon, yesterday morning on two occasions, proved to be correct. According to the Rules of Procedure, Article 97, please establish the quorum in the hall because it is obvious that MPs of the assembly majority of DOS are not interested in working today for the Fourth Extraordinary Session of the National Assembly, as well as yesterday afternoon. Of the 176 MPs, how many there are and how many have been chosen in this assembly, barely one third of them stay in the hall every day. The assembly majority is obliged to provide quorum, not opposition parties, you are only interested in the voting process when you need to vote your similar staff, as well as the minister who comes before the end of the session. As for Article 117, it is obvious that the secretary is completely incompetent and the services they need to control whether the MPs leaving the room use their identification cards still. The secretary's never in four days' session, he spent an average of two hours a day in the O.R. Please determine if you have a quorum.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1175	We'll establish. I ask the MPs to establish the quorum and insert their identification cards. (Vojislav Seselj, throws out the place, "Can I have a word?" ). He can't. We interrupt the session for now and determine the quorum. Have all the MPs drawn their cards into the MPs' units? Those who are not, break the Rules of Procedure and beg to leave the room unless they participate in the work, and if they are not there, I ask the service to count the MPs. I'm guessing the electronic system's not working. I counted it, it's not right. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the post: Are you giving me for the violation of the Rules of Procedure? ). Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1176	Mr. President, the electronic system is working. SRS MPs have not put their cards in units because we want to see how many DOS MPs attend the session every day. If you insist on counting, although the system works, we will leave the room, we will not allow you to count us as sheep, but will remain one SRS MP to determine the quorum. If that's what you want, that's fine.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1177	The MPs who are in the O.R. are obliged to insert their cards, and when they come out of the O.R., to take them with them and to check out. So, of course, you have the right not to participate in the work of the Assembly by leaving the O.R. While you're in the O.R., you have to draw the cards. (Tomislav Nikolic, from the scene: See how many cards there are here, and they are not here, come and see here. Sit down and see. ) I ask you to do a little bit, as I like to say, courtesy and to realize that the electronic system cannot determine the quorum, although it is obvious that there is a quorum in the hall. I cannot determine whether they have all inserted or not, so I ask the service to determine by counting the number of MPs present. (Serb Radical Party emissaries leave the hall. ) I ask the MPs, who did not do so, to insert their identification cards and compare them with the number that we have determined with the count. I ask you, to undoubtedly determine the existence of a quorum, to repeat the determination of the quorum. Please insert your identification cards into the MPs. I understand we have a quorum to work with. The word has been made by the People's MP, Mihajlo Markovic. Milorad Mircic, from the O.R.: A violation of the Rules of Procedure. Is it a violation of the Rules of Procedure? Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1178	I understand, dear colleagues, that most of this annoys, creates certain anxiety, but you have to understand - it's not a problem for the president, it's not a problem for those who sit neatly, it's a problem for you. First of all, Mr. President, you violated the Rules of Procedure in the part where you proposed, as president of the Assembly, that a quorum be determined by the Rules of Procedure. The service counted. You have not revealed how many messengers are present, you have not read the number that the service has provided you. When you saw that there wasn't enough, that wasn't enough quorum, then you used the electronic system, but the fact is that one of the colleagues here puts two cards in.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1179	Mr. Ambassador, you are under the Rules of Procedure to point to a member of the Rules of Procedure whose violation you object to.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1180	There's a member who regulates it, smart people read it, there's a secretary, so let him read it, it's his basic duty to read it and say whether there's a member or not.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1181	You're bound to tell that member.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1182	Mr. President, you're not going to convince us this isn't in the Rules of Procedure, are you? I have the right to the Rules of Procedure, since I have expressed my suspicion, I have the right to demand that the quorum be determined on the basis of a call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1183	You have no right, you have not pointed out a member of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1184	According to the Rules of Procedure, it can also be debated by the Assembly. This is defined. And secondly, Mr. President, you are becoming more and more abusers of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1185	I didn't give you my word for the second time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1186	He was one of those before you, his name was Dragan Tomic, and it didn't go very well.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1187	Mr. Ambassador, I didn't give you my word the second time. Thank you very much. Since it is not highlighted by a member of the Rules of Procedure whose violation is being advertised, I have nothing to put to the vote. We continue with the work, the secretary did not object, you made a complaint, and according to the Rules of Procedure you are obliged to quote the provisions of the Rules of Procedure. Milorad Mircic, from the O.R., what do you need a secretary for? Thank you, Mr. People's Parliament. The word has been made by the People's MP Alexander Vukic. He's not in the O.R. ) The word has a People's MP, Mihajlo Markovic, whom I have already called.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1188	Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, I will read you the official documents relating to today's agenda -- the election of the Serbian Supreme Court president and the election of judges. The illegal decision of the Republic Assembly on the resolution of 18 judges, as an act of retribution for the public reminder of the principle of independence of the judiciary and judges, remained largely without reaction, both professional and wider circles, although there is no tradition of an independent judiciary in Serbia, the regime then began to remove all judges, which were estimated to be an obstacle to the action of final law enforcement, which was announced by the Serbian government's vice-president in 1999. I'm giving you documents on previous practice, political-judicial proceedings, at the same time as detentions. The regime continues with pressure, intimidation, and mistreatment, the conduct of sometimes marathons, and sometimes expressive, depending on the need, judicial and misdemeanour procedures. Point 4. - terror over the judiciary, in the part of the report on enhanced repression in Serbia, 1999, which refers to judicial authorities and pressures on the judiciary, the anti-civilisation of a valid structure with judges, which have publicly pointed to political pressures that are increasingly suffering from the court and judges in their work. First, it lists our so-called so-called. The Association of Judges of Serbia, as the only unregistered unregistered esnafic association of judges in Serbia. The National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia's decision of 21 December1999 on the resolution of the court office of judges (I will name a name): Slobodan Vučetic, Zoran Ivosevic, God Prelevic. In doing so, the ruling structures did not even bother to stick to the prescribed procedures in the cases of judge Zoran Ivosevic and God Prelevic's resolution. Namely, by the provision of Article 48. The law on courts is prescribed that the President of the Supreme Court initiates proceedings for the resolution of judges. If I didn't state further the procedures that were mandatory in the resolution, they weren't there. I will find - if the President of the Supreme Court assesses that there are reasons for resolving judges, he will schedule a general session, etc. in Articles 4 and 5. The general session of the Supreme Court, which was to discuss the resolution of judges from the judicial office, Zoran Ivosevic and God Prelevic, to whom they should be called, has never been called. As judges of these events came forward, since they could not reach out to one official statement, because the Serbian Judges' Association no longer exists, with 13 judges from different courts writing17. July open letter, in which he expressed his indignation and concern over the regime's procedure. I remind you of a few sentences - it is dangerous when every public beating of judges is characterized as a struggle for political goals, to whom and why they are dangerous and inappropriate judges who fight for goals that are not political, which are related to human rights that are older than the state that has not given them, so they cannot be taken away. Why is the top of the judicial authority not responding to the increasing level of high-ranking officials, who, in advance, have ruled publicly, publicly, before the courts of Serbia, against criminal proceedings. Certain details, which are under investigation, must not be made public. The rule and the principle that no one is guilty until his guilt is proved to be a civilizational fluid and it is obvious that in such cases it is not respected. This speaks of the actions of the previous regime since 1999. Signatories of the letter (I will list only some names of judges active in this case) - Leposava Karamarkovic, Judge of the Supreme Court of Serbia Vida Petrovic, Gordana Mihajlovic - 17 July 2000 - and do not say that these judges elected before the Assembly today, that they become judges from lawyers. They're judges who are illegal, dissolved against the constitution. Not a full month after the publication of the letter, the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, it is the former National Assembly, at a session held on July 12th, making a decision that relieves judges of the District Court in Belgrade, Miroslav Todorovic and all 13 signatories of the letter. I think I've documented enough of the way the previous parliament works. Gentlemen, I ask the MPs of the DOS, and I warn for my 10-year parliamentary experience -- the arrogant majority and the authorities, I apologize for this minute, sent the opposition's MPs "close the door" and applause. For most 10 years, Bahata wanted this parliament to present to a people who had nothing to do, who had nothing to eat and who died in wars that were not fought, as a theater. Please, this is no place for applause, nor is it applauded here. This is a serious home that the people expect something from. Do not succumb to the atmosphere of people who are never the Constitution, people and states, and this Parliament was not interested, except in the naked authorities. Please appreciate that.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1189	There's a word from MP Alexander Vukitch.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1190	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, first of all, I must say that I expect that the President of the National Assembly will not insult the opposition MPs, nor underestimate them in the worst possible way, all allegedly through fine-tuning and throwing, trying to prove himself to be someone far smarter than everyone else, as some kind of pontifex of the Maximus in the Assembly, which he really isn't. And, please, don't interrupt me before seven minutes ago, because you didn't interrupt the previous speaker until he went deep in seven minutes. Namely, here many have talked about an independent judiciary, about what should be happening in Serbia in the coming period, and since I have heard that some have not heard, some have told Dr Seselj that when he spoke about the RTS case and Dragoljub Milanovic case, I will point out some facts about it. In fact, today my mother was invited to testify, that is to say something against Dragoljub Milanovic because that night she was a journalist on duty, you know. Your organs invited her. She'll, of course, say what she knows, I guess, and how it happened, what happened. But, of course, he will say that Javier Solana did it, not Dragoljub Milanovic. Javier Solana, who is a judicial officer Convicted in our country, whether you like it or not, a judicial verdict sentenced to the most severe sentence of prison. [[part of the MP applauds]] Is that right, Mr. Battice? For 15 years, except for 20 years, which is a pure substitute for the death penalty. So, with the most severe punishment possible convicted, and allegedly legalists and big Democrats are receiving it as presidents of the states in our country continue to speak, it's legalism, it's democracy...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1191	Please stick to the topic and agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1192	And that's a crime against our people. Don't beg me, Mr. President, because it's absolutely incorrect behavior, because you haven't warned a single moment of the previous speaker, whom you may not have listened to. I found his speech very interesting, which did not speak at any time about what is on the agenda today. And I'm talking about what's very closely tied, which is almost directly printed with today's agenda. Let me tell you something -- Dragoljub Milanovic was arrested by your haika and nothing else. Because you kept saying "some have to be arrested" every day in the paper. No one lives more than you do know why he's been arrested. And what worries me as a man is that you laugh at when someone's been arrested. The fact that you're glad someone's suffering, that someone's in pain, that you're enjoying it. You can throw all you want. [[growls]] It may bother you as much as you want, but it would be good to feel one day what it looks like when someone with no right to answer accuses you falsely, when he makes up all kinds of nonsense in every newspaper, in every possible television station, and he's in no condition to say anything else. Tell us in the end, which is why the independent judiciary, or the Republic Public Prosecutor, has requested detention for the former director of state television. For what? Is it because some bandits lynched him? Is that why? You have video footage, have these criminals been arrested?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1193	Mr. Wolfie, I'm warning you that...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1194	Don't warn me, you better warn your president who's receiving a war criminal named Javier Solan, and he's arresting people who are neither guilty nor debtors. You'd better warn him... [[one number of MPs applauding]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1195	Mr. Wolfie, we're not opening a debate about who brought Javier Solana... And come back...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1196	I'm telling you, you better warn your president, he took him in, which is why he arrested Dragoljub Milanovic, and he doesn't even know why he arrested him. I want to point out to you the following fact: that you will have to bear in mind that you cannot be arrested in such a way, that you cannot deal with political opponents in such a way. Don't forget that tomorrow you can be on the other side and you can also be arrested on the other side, and I don't see much of those who have been arrested that way. I told you already here, twice against me in Milosevic's time is a moving procedure, and I ask Ivkovic here - does he know why? Does he know what they were making up, how they made up, so they stopped the procedure, and I don't know what kind of argument they found. They don't know why. Don't let that happen to you. You've done a lot of things. They ran your justices, TVs that were able to write what they wanted, make up whatever they wanted, say what they wanted, and then these people have to go to jail. Don't forget that it's a greater sin and a greater accident for a nation and one state to spend an innocent man's day in prison, but that 99 or 100 guilty people don't spend in prison.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1197	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1198	I warned you, Mr. President, that you should try to be a little bit more correct, but these laws of the jungle that rule in the work of the parliamentary majority, that is, with the DOS representatives, who seem to have learned that they can scream, that they can halobe, that they can do whatever they want, counting on them to scare the opposition MPs, counting on them to get away from the pay phone, to court them. That would be much smarter and much more important. It seems to me that this would contribute to a different parliamentary practice. And, one more thing...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1199	Mr. Vukic, I interrupted both Mr. Markovic and you after the time for the debate is up. And you're not here to warn me, but I'm here to warn you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1200	Mr. Martian, you're not here to warn me either, and I'm going to tell you every time you break the Rules of Procedure and you act incorrectly, and I'm going to warn you that your vice president from the Civil Union of Serbia has warned you that you've even fallen asleep and that you haven't seen how much Mr. Markovic has exceeded your time. So please, one more sentence and I will finish, bear in mind that you have equal treatment for all MPs.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1201	Go ahead, finish up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1202	The one who requested Dragoljub Milanovic's detention was a certain Andrija Milutinovic, who today, we see in the materials, resigned. I know this man. There was one July moral zero. And today is a dossal executioner and an even bigger zero. If it can be said that from scratch there can be worse zeros, yet these today and these unfortunately think that they rule and that they will remain ruling in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1203	Mr. Markovic, replica.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1204	I'm sorry, Mr. Chairman, this is where the time should be marked. The moment you warned me on time, I said I was finishing up, and I just warned out of that time scheduled to speak to the MPs about behavior. The next thing, with regard to the decision to elect the Supreme Court President, Ms. Majestre Leposave Karamarkovic, as well as the election of the President of the General Court, Vidi Petrovic-Škero, Gordana Mihajlović, Djorđa Lukic, Nebojje Glavas and Vojko Simic, I only read the documents, in what way, in which time and why the judges were relieved, mentioned them as dismissed judges and proved that none of them became president of the court from lawyers, but pointed to illegal, illegal, anti-lawful, anti-constitutional decisions of the previous Assembly, which resolved them. And it was just in line with the subject. I didn't want a minute, because it can't happen to me, to abuse a pay phone and say anything other than the subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1205	The word is made by MP Branko Pavlovic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1206	Ladies and gentlemen, when I speak of this matter, two dilemmas are being raised and this is to be debated. What are the proposals of the Committee on Justice and Administration for the selection of the President of the Court, by quality and, secondly, whether the Committee has worked independently or under pressure, this is relevant and should be discussed. Since, among other things, I'm a member of this committee, of course we're convinced that we haven't had a better solution at this point. I'm convinced for many that they're great, but it would be more likely that we think it's ideal, what we're proposing. What we stand where we stand and where we stand firmly is that each individual proposed solution to the previous President of the Court is better. So, personally, I am prepared to return the parliamentary term if anyone proves to me that the proposed solution is at least the same, let alone worse than the previous president of the court. So it's true that it's for the professional public, that it's an expert public debate, because you know what the judiciary is as a significant part of the government. Our claim and where I personally stand that any proposed solution is directly better than your predecessor. The second part, which is repeated and not burned again, is that there are pressures on the committee's work. Pressure on the committee's work is gone and Mr Batic is present here with no influence on the proposal. There are broad consultations, but the pressures and influences of the parties on either side of the DODS on the work of this committee are gone. If it were to be a party, if it were to go beyond the rules of the profession, I would also return the parliamentary mandate, hold a press conference and say, "I'm sorry, there are pressures, I'm not going to take part in that." So that's not there. Only very short on the situation of the judiciary and on this proposal itself. It has been said that we should discuss between several candidates. The Justice and Administration Committee always proposes one solution to the National Assembly. He is not procedurally proposing dilemmas, but always agreeing and saying - that is our position, so please make it clear that the National Assembly can accept it or not and therefore return it to the Committee to work. The suspicion was expressed that some local DOS party structures would be at risk at some time to influence and make some proposals by the president of the courts, especially by the interior, which would then be proposed for the presidents of the courts in those areas. The Justice Committee would also welcome representatives of the Serbian Radical Party, who could then be quite reasoned to tell us that any proposal is unacceptable because it is unprofessional, unfair or already all that is needed and, of course, no one would stand behind a man who is bad. Therefore, co-operation with the Committee will allow, when we all cross our data, the very low probability of a particularly bad proposal being passed. It's almost impossible to be, if we're all working together on this job, and that's a very important thing. In the end, I have to say, I won't go too far back, but I'll tell you in that part that I know and let's clarify that dilemma whether we understand the parameters that exist in the judiciary. If you compare 1984, 1985, and 1986, and the coefficients of the number of judges and received cases, the subject matter and the sum coefficient of urgency, I am now only talking to the part of the professional public who understands what I am talking about, and compare it with those factors that exist in the judiciary today, this judiciary is five and a half times worse than that of the judiciary that the previous government inherited. So when it comes to some previous regime that has disrupted key things in the judiciary, no, this regime after which DOS comes has five and a half times made the situation worse than when it came to power.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1207	It's a really nice story, Mr. Orator, and when we listen, God forbid it's like he says, but I'm looking you in the eyes, you MPs of DOS, honesty is for you to come out here and say that you don't already have finished personnel solutions and that you haven't staffed the judiciary in your places. I call upon these from Aryl, from the King, the New Pazar, the Kruševec, etc., most of you are from all these cities, to come out here and say that your party structures in these municipalities have no finished solutions. I guarantee you can dictate them. So now we can see a complete picture of future personnel in Serbia's judiciary. A few places you haven't solved now you're rolling around here in a restaurant and that's why you're not in the Assembly. Now that you're going through and you're fighting. Otherwise, your story, sir, is excelent.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1208	Anybody else answer for a word?
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1209	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, although the formal minister of justice of the Republic government is not a proposing candidate to be elected today as President of the Court, I can express my satisfaction that no objection to the person of the proposed candidates has been heard. This is the best sign that the Committee for Justice of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia has proposed truly high quality candidates, people who are great legal professionals and people with high moral integrity. As Minister of Justice, I have not in any way influenced the candidate's proposal. To the extent that I haven't even met with the proposed candidates. It may look like a demagogy to someone, but it's a wish for both the new government and me as a minister of justice to actually create a system of free and independent justice. On the other hand, since, by the logic of things, I have been held accountable for the judiciary's resolution, I have carried out a series of consultations and, believe me, from the order of judges, lawyers, people who have different ties with the judiciary, I have received absolute assurance, especially for the person of the proposed candidates for the Supreme Court and the President of the District Court, as well as for all the other candidates proposed, that it is indeed the best possible choice. This is in some way confirmed by the fact that none of the MPs objected to the person of the proposed candidates. Why did it go from Belgrade? Because here the number of cases in courts is the highest, which is the concentration and financial power, capital and crime, by the logic of things, here the largest. We didn't want yesterday, when we made a decision on the dismissal of the President of the Courts, to take notice of any objections to the work of these courts, because this session would take days. Believe me, I'm getting tons of material at all on the work of the judiciary. Mr. Jojic, as a man who was a minister of justice, spoke about the urgency, that is, the impunity, which is dramatic, not to mention other things that affect but also issues of different kinds of responsibility. So, in the election of the president of the courts, there won't be any rematch, there won't be any retribution, there won't be anything to do with any kind of party, party or any other belonging. The largest number of judges in Serbia, a huge number, 90% of people have done their jobs with honor and integrity and will not be replaced. They were simply demotive, they were caught by apathy, they had poor and miserable wages. You have to encourage a man and motivate him to do his job. In order for a man to be free and independent, he and materially must be free and independent. I said yesterday, here the judges of the district courts who gave death sentences, who decided on someone's freedom, life and death, had salaries below 200 marks. There is no free and independent judiciary. So no retaliatoryness, no rematchism, and with regard to the voters of judicial functions that will follow in the regular session, regardless of the stories of the staffing, I also heard them and got a bunch of various suggestions from everyone and everyone. There will be no party judiciary, simply the Government of the Republic of Serbia, and we have agreed on the proposal of the Minister of Justice at today's College, will form some kind of committee that will be entered by the representatives of the Ministry of Justice, and the Committee on Justice of the Republic of Serbia, and the judicial colleges, and the local legal chambers and associations of judges, the Association of Law, if necessary and the local authorities, regardless of who is in the local government, and we will try to choose really professional and competent people for the holders of judicial functions. So, all these objections will be able to stand out, but then when the choice of those judicial officials comes to order. Simply, expertise and moral integrity must be two basic and two only criteria when selecting legal holders. It's been respected, of course, by the minister of justice, all kinds of things. Neither am I arresting, nor am I judging, and, believe me, I have now heard from Mr. Vukic, believe it or not, who has requested custody for Mr. Milanovic. So I don't even know who asked, says Mr. Andrija Milutinovic. No DOS, thank God, with Andrija Milutinovic, nothing to do. He filed a motion for discharge, and Andrija Milutinovic was dismissed, and so I don't even know who applied for an investigation, I don't even know who the prosecutor is, I don't even know which court is in charge. That may sound amazing to you, but the point of everything is a free and independent judiciary. We have established one code of conduct at the government level and all members of the government have committed that no one will intervene in the judiciary or in the police, or in the public enterprises, or in the financial police, or anywhere. Any member of the government can request and receive a report on everything and everything, but no one has the right to intervene anywhere. And, feel free to say if there is a single judge or one judge in Serbia that this minister of justice has sought anything, by any means intervened, anyone to be as a candidate for the president of the court, the judge, the public prosecutor, etc. I'll be free to look everyone in the eye, because that's not there. We need to create a system of free and independent judiciary and we need to raise that pillar, which makes free and independent judiciary not only with empty rhetoric and not just with a controversial choice. The government will soon offer a new, modern law on courts. This law is totally anachron. We discussed him yesterday. It can be interpreted one way or another, because it was like that and it was in the function of some other government and some other needs of that government. So we're going to pass a new law on courts, a new law on the public prosecutor's office, a new law on attorneyship, make them modern, in line with the needs of this people and this state, as well as compatible with European Union regulations, because we want to go to Europe. We want to live like the whole normal world. In order to achieve this, we need to have a free and independent judiciary, to raise the salaries to judges and public prosecutors, the holders of judicial functions, to really be free and independent. I said yesterday, gentlemen, this is the President of the Constitutional Court of Economist Ratko Butulija, which can only be in Serbia. This is where the Supreme Court of this country doesn't have its own building, it can only be in Serbia. Here 13 judges of the Supreme Court have gained a condition for retirement, and we have great, young staff, large capacities, which are included on the Internet, which follow parallel practice. I've met a few people who haven't had a chance yet. We need fresh blood, we need that youth and mind to stay here, not to wander around the white world, to look for their happiness there. They'll stay here, they'll be the pillar of a new, free and independent judiciary. Thank you. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1210	Replica, Mr. Wolfie.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1211	Ladies and gentlemen, I need to point out a few facts. Minister Batic mentioned in his statement that Serbia's Supreme Court does not even have its own building. She's gone because she's down. It was brought down by those you receive with the highest honors of the state. They knocked her down, and that's Nemanja's number nine. The government bought that building, the Supreme Court was supposed to be set up there, but it couldn't be settled, since the great Democrats, as you call it today and receive it all from the order, Javier Solana ordered that the building collapse. As for what I was talking about, I didn't say that Mr Batic was directly involved at any point, but I followed that up before I went on the road, I followed the programme of state television. [[Applause radically.]] On state television, I saw Mr. Milutinovic's interview, in which he spoke about his assistant, deputy and how Dragoljub Milanovic will be detained. I've seen it in the state media. No one else has provided me with any information, that there may be no confusion in the public or that someone would misread it. I just want to say that what Mr. Batic said is a contradiction to what DOS representatives said before Mr. Batic showed up in this room. First of all, Mr. Budishin and Mr. Shabic. They, justifying Dragoljub Milanovic's arrest, were without argument, saying it would be left to the competent, judicial and state authorities, that it would be fully available to the public, that everyone would be aware of the facts, with the overwhelming approval of the assembly's majority. I guess they're especially happy that someone's behind bars, and they especially like that, especially they like it. Mr. Batic says none of the state authorities have anything to do with it. It would be good to get the information after we got through the media information that a certain man was released, who admitted to committing a crime and a crime - Bogoljub Arsenijević - Maki, who openly said he was preparing and wanted to destroy the building of the Federal Assembly. Albanian terrorist Fjora Brovina was released from prison, and it was done by SRJ president, but no one in the public knows exactly why Dragoljub Milanovic was arrested. You'd better tell us that. I'll tell you why I'm interested. I kept my mouth shut the whole time, I was, and I didn't see any of you guys go when that terrible tragedy happened and I didn't even see them at memorial gatherings, to send people who died. I was there as a man, not as a minister, and you couldn't even see me. That's what I'm telling you for the first time now. That was when those people were already dead, that you had that in mind. I never thought of it at that time, even though we had many conflicts with SPS representatives.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1212	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1213	You know, Mr. Ivkovic was in the Serbian government. Did I ever tell you, Mr. Ivkovic, that you organized it or that anyone else ordered it on national television? That someone else knew that? It's supposed to be not big, but it just needs to be normal, so figure out what really happened here. The executioners have become our good friends. Carla Del Ponte will tell us who shot at the state television building and Javier Solana will tell us who's responsible for the murder, and he'll order an attack on Serbia and the SRJ. Those for whom there is no evidence, no...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1214	I'm warning you in time, this replica time is three minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1215	I'm done, Mr. President. For those for whom there are no arguments other than a ton of paper spent in the press, thousands of minutes of stories, I tried to find an argument, to hear some fact. I didn't hear it today, I didn't read it in any newspaper, not one word, not one single word, not one single argument. Somebody come out, let him say, I tell you there's a man under arrest, that no one knows why he's been arrested. He's in jail, in custody, and there's no telling why he's in custody. I'm worried because it's a man and it doesn't matter that it's not my party colleague.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1216	Mr. Wolfie, you've been talking for five minutes.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1217	I ask you to bear in mind that you will not be so joyful, and when you lose power, and I hope not with the lynch, and that no criminals or bandits will beat you on the street anywhere, as some have beaten you... "Let them beat us if we deserve it." Nobody, the distinguished lady from the women's political network, deserved it. I didn't know that woman's political network stood for the lynch. No one deserved it. Dragoljub Milanovic did not deserve it, and neither are you who are much worse than Dragoljub Milanovic. No one will ever lynch you, and I will always try not to let that happen to you. I'm just warning you to watch and keep in mind that there's going to be a change of government. I'm hoping fast, and you're hoping slowly, but I'm sure he'll come. When he comes, we'll do anything to make sure you don't get what's happening to everyone today, who thinks differently from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1218	Replica, Mr. Batic, and then Mr. Shabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1219	I have no special intention of plowing, but de facto Serbia's Supreme Court does not have its own building and the government of the Republic of Serbia will hopefully quickly ensure that Serbia's Supreme Court, because it is a symbol of the legal system, a symbol of the rule of law, will soon get its own building. Another thing, I hope, is that it's past the time when some people will become justice ministers, because they've been screenwriters of election thefts, that a time has passed when some people, as president of the Supreme Court, will be presidents of the Republic Election Commission, which determines numerous irregularities, many things that cannot happen. As far as responsibility is concerned, it must be an axiom, a responsibility for all, and former authorities, both present and future. Responsibility must be a paradigm. Neither will the government nor parliament discuss any individual responsibility. I think here, I was listening on the radio, coming to the car here, and Mr. Sabic and the other DOS representatives, that's where we totally agree. Responsibility will be determined by the judicial authorities, and there is nothing to ask for either the minister of justice or the government or parliament. It's simply a free and independent judiciary.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1220	Replica, Mr. Shabic.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1221	Ladies and gentlemen, I'll make sure I'm quite brief. I'm only answering because my colleague Vukic actually called me. What's the problem? My colleagues, here I am giving up.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1222	The word is made by MP Branislav Ivkovic, third call.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1223	I was very pleased to hear the final statement by the minister of justice in the government of the Republic of Serbia, because what he was saying is certainly what every MP in this assembly supports. It is a free and independent judiciary, improving the position of judicial workers. Finally, he told one truly great truth, that a vast number of judicial heirs were extremely good and were savingly doing their job. I didn't mean to take your word for it. But in the replica, he started talking about something that made me bring, on Tuesday 6th. 2. In 2001, the daily "Plase of the Public" - DHSS, on the session of the Serbian Parliament - a free and independent judiciary. Arrest immediately after the session. So much for the free and independent judiciary and the lack of influence of the Democratic Party of Serbia on the conduct of the judiciary in Serbia. I really didn't mean to answer that. As far as the Serbian Supreme Court building is concerned, I want to tell you that the Government of the Republic of Serbia, in difficult times, (if he has lied to himself) when the Yugoslav Army, wanting to solve the housing problems of its people, essentially, has reached agreement that Nemina 9 is actually an object of the government of the Republic of Serbia, where the Supreme Court of Serbia will be located, and the Constitutional Court of Serbia and the Ministry of Justice. Indeed, the fact is that it's one of the objects that NATO's aggressor destroyed.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1224	The People's Messenger Gordana Pop - Lazić has the word, and then the Messenger of the People is Slobodan Janjic. Please, before you go out for the pay phone, insert the cards. Be nice.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1225	Ladies and gentlemen of the People's Parliament, the honourable representatives of the government in exile and the respected Minister Batic, who is present here, you said in your presentation that you would very quickly propose, as Government, the Law on Courts, the Law on Public Prosecution, the Criminal Law and the Code on Criminal Procedure. You promised it with your own program. You said, however, the first hundred days of the new government. But you haven't even hidden in that program who's going to make these bill proposals for you. I'll read what it says in that program. "In the first hundred days of his term to propose key system laws in the assembly and public debate," which you later list. "Each of the above-mentioned legislative proposals must be fully in line with the applicable legislation of the European Union, and will be made up of our lawyers and economists, in co-operation with OSCE experts and other relevant international organisations." I understand that when the government sets out a bill, while they are in the form of a draft, it consults a comparative right, and everything that, as an experience, in a particular problem of another European country or state in the world, they have. But if we have laws in the kitchen of the OSCE, we'll see what the laws look like. By the way, at the Ministry of Labour and Social Policy, the minister has already had the opportunity to agree with representatives, whether Irish governments or some international organisations, that the social policy programme is made up of Irish.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1226	I'm asking you to take care of what's on the agenda.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1227	So we know where to cook. But I went out for a pay phone to get something else, purely formal -- legally called both the minister of justice and Mr. Hiber, to explain it to me. Yesterday, in the form of a general act, we made a motion for a decision to put aside the decisions on judge resolutions. At the end of the decision, under Roman two, it reads: "This decision is to be published in the Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". The decision was announced under yesterday's date in "The Official Messenger of the Republic of Serbia". It is common, when it comes to a general legal act, and you have presented this as a general legal act, that it states that the law or decision takes effect within eight days, from the day of publication or the day of publication in "The Official Messenger". For this reason, I would like to ask this question of a formal - legal nature because it raises the question of whether Mrs Karamarkovic, who was proposed as Supreme Court President, can be elected to the post today? For what? Because unless we have a determination when a decision comes into force, then I suppose the provisions of the Constitution, or Article 120, are in force. The Constitution, which says: "The law, the second regulation or the general act, shall enter into force at the earliest eighth day of the day of publication, unless, for explicitly justified reasons, it is intended to enter into force earlier." That's it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1228	The People's Messenger, Slobodan Janjic, has the word. We don't have any more registered speakers. Ma'am, I can't give you my word. You've already spoken within this point.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1229	It's about the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1230	I was outside, I'm sorry. Here you go.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1231	Mr. President, I can see that somehow most of the DOS in the afternoon session of the Fourth Extraordinary Session is in a hurry to get this agenda done as soon as possible, and that your staff, staffed, carefully selected personnel for the seat of the President of the Courts, are elected. However, I would like to refer to something that I have said to the minister of justice, whom we had the opportunity to hear before, and also to the personal concern of what will continue to happen in the Serbian judiciary, based on all that DOS MPs have said for the assembly speaker, and above all I am the minister. As you have heard from fellow SRS MPs, we Serbian radicals really have no reason to speak individually about proposed candidates. What we could know about them, especially us who do not live in Belgrade's territory, and yesterday in the afternoon we also received a proposal for Mrs. Leposava and the other judges, when you once made an unconstitutional decision, through the move of the National Assembly of the Republic of Serbia, resolved the previous presidents of municipal courts. This really raises one logical question about how the Serbian judiciary will be arranged in the future, and what will municipal and district courts on the territory of all Serbia look like? I, as you know, come from Kragujevac and there we have a situation that since four months ago, since the previous President of the Municipal Court, Nikola Popovic, whom you resolved yesterday, submitted a request for a discharge, appointed V.D. The president of the municipal court, who I can't say is not on the list of similars and is not carefully recorded on the DOS list. I have an argument on this in the fact that he proved himself to be one of those in 1996, when he participated in the work of the City Election Commission, and then before the September elections last year in consultations with the then-secretary of the City Assembly and the president of the City Assembly, it was said of which the judge would be eligible to serve as president of the City Election Commission. Did one of them and the staff on the list of one political party prove it, and then they decided in favor of the other and it was not present, and it was not V.D. President of the Municipal Court. The question is, when are you going to start with the appointments of the president of courts all over Serbia, because only in the Shumadian district, as far as I know, you have a case for two V.D.s. The president of municipal courts, and I would really like to know how long they can do this very responsible function. On the other hand, another issue is raised, how will current judges respond both in municipal and district courts. Here, in this session of the Serbian Parliament, a colleague who is from the political party, Minister Batic, and he is really beaten by such a voice, which is positive for him in our city, that he is a good selector in all areas. It needs to be recognised for the work it is doing within the DOS political group, and the interest group has already shown itself in the area of the Kragujeva economy. That's what the so-called independent, and the free media is really asking the question now, is the distinguished colleague going to do the job so well, and when it comes to future judge or future judge? The logical question arises, can you, in the same way that you put aside yesterday's decision for the presidents of municipal courts in Belgrade and the District Court, that now because of political inadequacy and sympathy, and antipathy, you are solving judges throughout municipal and county courts. One more thing, a question has been raised here, and a colleague, Mr. Vukic and counterpart Gordana Pop-Lazic, spoke about the building that needs to be provided for Serbia's Supreme Court. It is truly tragic and terrible that you, apart from amnesty and thus welcome a crime, forget individually every case of genocide committed by these villains over the Serbian people, whether it is Belgrade, Surdulica, Kragujevac, any city in Serbia. You forget what was going on those days and what were all the facilities that day bombed...
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1232	Time.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1233	When just next to the hospital in downtown Belgrade, it was torn down by the villains from the NATO Alliance of Buildings in Germany's number 9, which the government had predicted for work several months earlier, for the new Supreme Court building. So I'm really asking that we don't go here with some empty demagogue stories about there won't be a list of similar and inappropriate, when the current situation in certain areas assures me that it isn't.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1234	The People's MP Nebojsa Lekovic also answered.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1235	Please, I'll do it very briefly, just for the sake of the truth, because I'm a member of the Justice Committee. The Justice Committee is the only one in charge of proposing to the National Assembly the holders of judicial and public prosecutorial functions. So there's no party shooting, nor will the Committee allow the truth to work. The second thing, about the situation in Kragujevac, I come from Kragujevac, and I know well what is done in that court, no party's courting will be, so be assured and the Justice Committee will deal only with the quality and results of the work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1236	There are conditions for us to move to a decision. During the discussion... (Alexander Vukic, dropping out of place: President you are violating the Rules of Procedure, according to the Rules of Procedure, you must ask the MPs... ). Where does it say in the Rules of Procedure that the break is at 1:00? There are conditions for us to move to a decision. During the debate, I am asking you this because the Rules of Procedure are inaccurate in one part, so decision-making, or decision-making depends on the following matter. So during the discussion, some of the candidates' names were mentioned, at least that's my impression, not one of the candidates, and in several discussions, it's not disputed. Did any of the MPs who mentioned the name challenge the candidacy of any of the proposed candidates? If not, then there are conditions to decide, and so is foreseen in case there are no contested proposals, to move on to a decision. We move to a decision on a motion for a decision on the termination of office for the public prosecutor's office. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I'm putting the motion to vote. For 122 MPs, against 14, the abstention was 23, was not voted by 12, and a total of 171 MPs were present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move on to a decision on the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the General Court. I ask the MPs to, in order to determine the quorum, insert their cards. I'm guessing we have a quorum. I am putting the motion for a decision on the election of the President of the General Court. Please vote. I conclude the vote and find that 117 against 5, with 37 abstentions, did not vote 7, a total of 166 MPs. I find that the National Assembly has adopted the motion for a decision by majority. We move to a decision on the proposal for a decision to elect the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the People's MPs to determine the quorum. I'm guessing we have a quorum to decide on. I am putting the motion for a decision to elect the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. I ask the MPs to vote. I conclude the vote and find that 127, against 13, 30 abstentions, did not vote four, a total of 174 MPs present. I find that the National Assembly has adopted a motion for a decision to elect the president of the Supreme Court of Serbia. Allow me to congratulate, on your behalf and on my behalf, all the elected holders of the judicial functions and wish for success in the work. I remind you he's a member of 44. [[Applause]] The law on courts provides for the President of the Supreme Court to take an oath before the National Assembly. I would like to ask Mrs Leposavu Karamarkovic, whom I particularly congratulate, because the first woman is the president of Serbia's Supreme Court in the history of the Serbian judiciary, to take an oath. [[Applause]]
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1237	I swear that in my work, I will uphold the Constitution and the law, that I will do my duty in court with security and impartiality, and that I will protect constitutionality and legality.
ParlaMint-RS_2001-02-15-0.u1238	I ask the President of the Supreme Court of Serbia to sign the text of the oath This fourth extraordinary session is closed. [[Applause]] I remind you that immediately, on the first floor, representatives, or the president of parliamentary groups, will meet for a short meeting, that a constitutional session will be held, on the ground floor, of the Committee on Relations with Serbs outside Serbia, and I have a request to inform that the session of the DOS parliamentary group, following these meetings, is in a large hall, on the same floor.
