ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. Today, March 8, it's a day to fight and claim effective equality between women and men. As you know, we're very far away, still, from being there, but as Parliament I think we're all convinced that we won't stop until we get it. As you know, the Bureau accepted the Socialist Parliamentary Group's request to suspend the plenary session at midday twelve to adhere to the international format that have called for women's movements on the occasion of the commemoration of the International Day of Women, with the reading of a statement before the Parliament's facsimile. So around the twelve of us, we'll make this standstill. I also have the pleasure of welcoming the Member of Parliament, Assumpta Escarp, who joined us today. [[Greetings.]] Celebrate that you're already among us. Also, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Assumption Laïlla has made the delegation of the vote to the chairman of her parliamentary group, Jordi Turull, and Mrs Marta Ribas has made the delegation of the vote to the spokesman of her parliamentary group, Mr Joan Coscubila. The list of questions to be answered is included in the dossier and, in accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, will be substantiated as the first point of the order of the day. [[Ask the Government about the transparency of the Government]] [[310-00189/11]] [[The first question to the Government is about the transparency of the Government, formulated by Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.2.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Romeva, you are committed to moving on to history as the least transparent transparency advisor in history. And it's not an opinion of this congressman, it's a fact, and I'm going to explain it to him. When Congresswoman Susana Beltrán asked for information, documentation, in the committee, doing her job as an opposition, asking for memoranda, you refused to give them to her; you refused, you said that information would not be given to the Congresswoman. So serious was what you did, in terms of transparency, being you, in addition, the Transparency Counsellor, that the Bureau of Parliament, where you have a majority, defended our Member, that the Bureau of Parliament, where you decide, said that Ciutadans and that our Member was right, and forced him to resubmit that documentation and memoranda. And what did you do? The very same of his Government: to answer with something else that had nothing to do with what we asked of him. He went back, in another opacity attack, to hide those documents. And again, the Bureau, again, had to give us the reason again to this parliamentary group. In this case, it also had to be an independent body set up to decide on these issues. And that independent body once again gave us reason and forced you, for the second time, to give us all that information and memoranda. In fact, it has given you twenty-four hours, until tomorrow, until tomorrow Thursday at twelve o'clock in the morning you have no more than to give that documentation, which for the second time is forcing Parliament to give it to you. What are you hiding, Mr. Romeva, in those documents? Stop playing hide-and-seek with the opposition. Give us that information. What are these memos about? What is that so important that you have to hide all Catalans and the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group? Tomorrow, when you give us that information, we'll finally find out what you're hiding in all those documents.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.3.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.4.0	Thank you. I don't know what the question was. In any case, I repeat: this government has always responded to all the requirements, according to the Law of Transparency, and will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.6.0	Mr. Romeva, opaque answer, like everything you do: opacity, opacity and opacity. Look, you're sending letters around the world saying you're the Foreign Minister, Mr. Romeva. You are neither a minister nor a foreign minister, because only the minister of Cambodia receives you, with all my respect to Cambodia. And when he goes to Finland, he gets the extreme right of Finland. And when he goes to the United States, he receives the Tea Party, which you know is one of Mr. Donald Trump's parties. That's his outer action. Therefore, do not put for the world that you are minister, because you are not; present to a general election and at best, one day you are minister, but for now, you are not. And don't talk about outside action either, because outside action doesn't. What do these documents hide? The question is very clear, Mr Romeva. You are the Transparency Advisor, since the position is invented, remove the last word from your position, which is that of transparency. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.7.0	The word has the advisor Raül Romeva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.8.0	I say again that this government has given all the information in agreement with the law of transparency and will follow it, because this government does believe in transparency. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not like others, to which you give support, to the State. Because we, when we go to Sweden and participate in the European network of cities and regions, explain and share with other states, precisely, public contract policies, sustainable and socially responsible. When we go to Paris, at the Open Government Partnership initiative, we explain and share, with other states, with other realities, the initiatives of participatory policies. In Barcelona, the open data initiative allows us to explain to other states, to other actors, precisely, the exemplary model of open data that we are due to term. And that's not what we say – that's not what we say – that's what Transparency International says, which has just given us the highest score, both in terms of quality and in terms of quantity. But it's that you don't care about transparency; it's more, it makes you, transparency. And they deny the most transparent exercise of all, which is to ask and listen. You insist here on asking for something that, in Madrid, does exactly the opposite. And it's that, no, Mr De Paramo, not all transparencys are the same, just as not all democracies are the same and not all justices are the same. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the prices of university education]] [[310-00182/11]] [[Second question, about the price of university education. The question is posed by Mr. Albert Botran of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.10.0	Thank you, good morning. Counselor, in the assumptions developed by the Government, we find that there are many things missing, one of which would be a much more determined policy to reverse the details that, in the matter of university students, began to give themselves from 2011 and that nominally have placed the materials at Catalan universities as the highest in the State. It is true that with the policy of minority enrollment, known as "equity scholarships" there are discounts for students coming from families with lower returns, but we have to bear in mind that, while the minority is applied, they are not less than high, because, moreover, this is accompanied than the expenses, the cost of studying, for one person, is not just the enrollment, but the housing, is to stop doing a paid work, etc. If we are located, for example, in studies that in social and legal sciences set at 1,500_euros, with a minority would remain half; if accessed, experimental ones are materials of 2,146_euros, or, in sciences of health and engineering, materials of 2,372_euros. As you know, the cost increases in the case of second grades, and the cost increases much more in the case of master, where even the minority of equity scholarships does not apply. It is true that you in committee said that the priority would be to apply these Equity fellowships to the master, but we do not know the concrete amount and impact that would have on behalf of beneficiaries of these Equity fellowship policies. And so, from this announcement to committee, two events mean that they force the government to go further, to update its position. One is last week's successful space, accompanied by a large demonstration of students on the streets of Barcelona, and the other is the meeting that we held with all parliamentary groups with the principal directors of the Catalan public universities. Given these events, the question would be concrete: does the government have a political will to arrive, in the short term, at some agreement with the assembly of parliamentary groups to give way to the demands of the university community?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.12.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, yes, the government has shown it many times, whenever it has not had the opportunity and, more importantly, I think it has practiced it. The Government has the will to make a frank, transparent dialogue and will be with the entire university community, so, with the Rectors, with the teachers, with the staff of the Administration and servants, and also with the legitimate representatives of the students, through the Ceucat, to reach agreements that allow the funding of the university to remain long-term guaranteed. And we want to do it. Actually, we practiced it, huh? We have met with everyone, and we want to do so with this premise, with those commitments that, during the presuppositional debate, we said that we would like to talk about it, and we would like to talk about it, because in the very decree of price there are already some of these modifications. For example, we can talk about whether the help to the lower trams of the Equity fellowships is accentuated. Or we can talk about whether we introduce, too, the Equity fellowships to tend to a progressive equalization of master prices to the price of degrees.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.14.0	Okay. In any case, we think it would be better to go there. This Parliament voted precisely for the equipping of prices of degrees and masters. You, who quote the Ceucat, are one of the demands of the least that they make, in the short term, and we hope that the government will be able to answer it, in this short term. To us, the only one that worries us is that, certainly, as various studies show, there are still class barriers in access to higher education and a determined action to combat it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.15.0	Thank you, Congressman. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.16.0	Miri, with the action decided to fight it we are all in agreement, and the first thing we can do, perhaps the most effective thing, is to claim, once more, the transfer of the scholarships that, despite the favourable feelings of the Constitutional Court, the State is denied, repeatedly and repeatedly denied, to pass. If you passed it, if you could, it would already be established, we could establish a policy, for example, of wage subsidies and we could establish a policy of much fairer and much more reasonable price. And you've made reference to the vague and the demonstrations. We are absolutely respectful of all the protesters and all the people who exercised their right to freedom on March 2. So, it's true that... I remember, that there are 237,000 university students in Catalonia, that that day, the vast majority of these students, normally went to their classes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Third question to the Government, about the motives for which the comprehensive intervention program against male violence has not been evaluated... Mrs. María José García, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.18.0	Out of contradictions, President. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.19.0	What are the contradictions, Congresswoman?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.20.0	At the councillor's demonstrations, Madam President, I wanted you to know that if... [[Widow's remorse.]] Do I have the floor? [[Widow's remorse. Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.21.0	What's the contradiction? Because I understand that this is a question and, in any case, it is between a parliamentary group and a councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.22.0	Yes... yes, but from the counselor's answer I could deduce that the Government of Spain is not willing to transfer university scholarships [[remorse of the voice]] And he's in breach of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.23.0	This is a deduction...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.24.0	And it's not like that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.25.0	... what do you do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.26.0	...president; that's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.27.0	I'm having a hard time. This is a deduction... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.28.0	It's missing the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.29.0	It's a deduction you make. Mrs. María José García, you don't have the word. You don't have the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Ask the Government about the reasons for which the Comprehensive Intervention Programme against Male Violence has not been evaluated]] [[310-00185/11]] Asks the question, the third question to the Government is formulated by Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Well... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Do you give me a minute? Oh, that's good. [[Rialles.]] Good morning. Vice President, despite the tools we have equipped to deal with male violence, to prevent it, something is failing when, in two months, we can already count two women murdered in Catalonia. We cannot stay in the rhetorical complaint, every time a woman kills us, we must assess what is failing, so that we can take corrective measures. The question we ask him is what they think they're doing. For example, do you plan to evaluate the integral plan of intervention in masculinist rapes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.31.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.32.0	Good morning. Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, you refer to the Comprehensive Intervention Programme, which, as you know, emerged precisely to respond to the mandate of Law 5/2008. Since the Catalan Institute of Women we have evaluated this intervention program, specifically in the framework of the later National Commission for a Coordinated Intervention against Masclist Violence. Know that we have two plenary meetings of these characteristics the year; so, well, at the end, concretely, on the 14th of September 2016, we made this assessment, which is certainly stuck to the website of the Català de les Dones Institute. We are working on your conclusions, so that we can improve what will be our own comprehensive intervention programme. We have obviously detected strong and weak points; for this reason we evaluate public policies, so as to improve everything that we believe has not worked properly, and more so in such a sensitive matter and which represents a compromise not only of the Government, but of the country's conjunction: the eradication of male violence. The advance that we have found a high percentage of actions that have been implemented but that need more continuity to be more effective. But we have also detected fevers that I will continue to comment on, honourable Member. But also the progress that we have made in the past two points, some points that we consider to be absolutely relevant to incorporating into the own programme, that they have to see, for example, with the co-education programs in the schools, with the greatest involvement of the communication media or with the empowerment of the work of the aggressor men, just to cite some of the two examples.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.33.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.34.0	Thank you, President. These aren't the news that came to us. Accept, Vice President, that something is not working. It should involve, in the evaluation, the coordinator of the male violence assessment group and the women's entities, and not store them information, as they are doing with this evaluation and with the two reports on sexual violence that we know have been at their hands for some time, but that you are refusing to make public. The fact that they do not make public the assessments or the results of the studies that they carry out from their own department is frankly strange and completely contrary to the laws of transparency, and even worse: they do not allow to establish corrective measures in the planning, coordination and resources against male violence. Meanwhile, you are tolerant of many and various manifestations of micromasclimisms, of daily rapes, as in the case of the party room that pays a hundred euros to women who wander without limes; and the ICD calls for the removal of the cartel in accounts to bring the company to the prosecution. Meanwhile, women who suffer from sexual assault feel badly attested when they report it and are twice as victimized, of course. Meanwhile, women who have been assaulted by couples will not be able to report, because they do not have enough psychological help. Meanwhile, women who have to abandon their home to escape from the box are found to be unspoiled in the boxes. Meanwhile, aggressors experience a feeling of impunity, not only criminal, but also social. And all these dramas happen while his government doesn't use all the resources to eradicate male violence. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.35.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.36.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, it is clear that while there is a masculist violence demonstration in our country, while a single woman is pathetic for any type of male violence, we can say that something does not work and that we have to work very intensively, from the highest level of unity, from all administrations and institutions. What I can't accept is that we store information. That's not it. The evaluation for which you asked me, I insist, is on the website of the Catalan Institute of Donations. We are working on its conclusions, making assessments of this and other programs, precisely, to detect fevers, to identify that we need to generalize, for example, prevention in other educational areas, not only at schools, that we need to work much more intensively with communication media, that we need to work more and better with indicators, precisely to assess the impact of public measures. We make an interdepartmental effort from the government's side to work on the eradication of this sacra, to improve the network of resources and to develop our law against male violence. But we don't love any information. You know that the reports you were referring to, not only what you were asking me, but also what you have to see with the resource network and with the identification of sexual rapes, are at your disposal, as I told you last week.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about school programming agreements between the Department of Education and local associations]] [[310-00186/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on school programming agreements between the Department of Education and local associations. The question is posed by Mr Antoni Balasch, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.38.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, the Catalonia Education Law – certainly validated as a very high-quality law, and with the added value of consensus, for the recognizable teacher, teacher and philosopher José Antonio Marina in an interview at 3/24 this same day – in Article 159(4), refers to the skills of local authorities and states that "on request of local authorities, skills can be delegated to create, organize and manage public centres that provide the first cycle of children's education – is understood as children's", "artistic teachings or adult education". It is obvious that this delegation and its resulting exercise of competitions ask for, advise and require a well-structured synergy and coordination between the department and the assemblies that have wanted to assume them. This is why the LEC, in its article 62, also establishes the modalities of co-responsibility between the Education Administration of the Generality and the local administrations. In the first paragraph of this Article 62 it is established that local authorities and the Administration of the Generality collaborate in the field of education by means of the mixed commission constituted by five representatives of the Catalan Association of Municipalities, by five representatives of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and presided over by the secretary general of the department. This commission is a systemic area of consultation and dialogue and debate construction in which they are subject to consideration, and also to reflection, with the character of pre-publication or implementation of actions, so many normative aspects that can modify the current standard, such as programming aspects, such as aspects and functional structures, is to say, with a leading role, with an advisory role, with a filtering role, with a constructive collaboration role, and therefore, from reality and knowledge, defuses political tacticalism. In this context, the Department of Education, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, in the framework of the mixed commission to which it refers, agreed to set the general criteria for school programming for the course 2017-2018. Our question, honourable Counselor, is: what is the practicality and value of these agreements?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.39.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Balasch. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. The honourable Member, therefore, appreciates it very positively. As you know, there has been an important change in the demographic evolution in our country; there are thirteen thousand students who have reduced us, for example, to P3, and this means that in the last few years we have had to make a very accurate programming of precisely the places that are offered, adapted to this reality. Some priorities were set at the time, which was to take decisions not to increase the segregation of some centres and to promote centres of maximum complexity. And this programming is negotiated, as you said, at the mixed table, but also at those mixed planning tables of the territory. And I mean, until now, we've reached, in some cases, 80 per cent of the agreements we make. We have now taken a step further, this agreement that we have made with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, with the Catalan Federation of Municipalities, on the general criteria that must be regulated by educational programming in order to respond to these two things, which I said to him: in five courses P3 students have dropped us to thirty_ thousand students, and to ESO we are able, in two years, seven_ thousand, but in the later three in nine thousand students. Therefore, we have to give an answer to this and, above all, work for that objective that we share, which is the best of educational success. And this agreement that we have reached with the municipalities is fruit, as you said, of experience, of joint work, and of tacticalism; it is important that you assign it. And, moreover, it is an agreement that links the two administrations: the local administration and the administration of the Generality. Only some of the points of this agreement that is worth noting. In general lines we continue with the measure of being twenty-two students depending on the complexity of the center. Not only that, but those centers that enjoyed the year before will continue to P4; therefore, this line will be able to advance with these students. And the important novelty of this is that, depending on the complexity, we will do this first of ESO; these centers tend to have twenty-seven students in place of thirty. And then other general criteria. P3 is old for the initial continuity of all educational projects, and where to reduce – because there aren't enough students – lines, here set some of the measures. Vetllar also for equity in balance, in the distribution of educational needs. And finally, also, the creation of nine schools where there is a growth that is maintained. For what it does to ESO, as I say, how there is a growth in the next two years, but an important davalada, what we would look for is solutions in each case and at those centers when this increase is sustained. Apart from this, the school criteria will also be a pedagogical response to the needs of the centre. Thank you, ma'am.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about policies in the area of women]] [[310-00187/11]] Five questions to the government, about politics in the realm of the woman. The question is posed by Mrs Anna Caula, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.42.0	Thank you, President. Yes, I said thank you, President, because that's what I have to do if I follow and complete the Rules of this chamber. They can prove it, because, just these days they talk so much, they hold to their abst to the website of Parliament, in a updated version of 2016. We are in the 21st century and 2017, and we have a rule that refers only to presidents, vice presidents, etc., and deputies. Maybe he's playing a sack. They say that there is no name, and that we know very well the women, the half of the population, because..., still treated as a minority, discriminated against and victims of symbolic, structural and physical rapes. It's March 8th, International Women's Day, and that's why, all that for our group every day is and must be International Women's Day, honourable Councillor Munté, we find it all relevant to ask for the government's compromise and its policies that I owe to end up, as the label of this year's slogan says, correcting inequalities. There are many, and the list would be endless, the inequalities by sex and gender, from the wage bracket and the soustre de vidra to feminicide. Luckily, however, there are also many and constant struggles because this situation changed, such as the On Are the Women campaign, about the presence and treatment of women in communication media. In this sense, according to the latest report submitted by this collection, the Catalan public communication media are almost even. We would, however, speak of technical parity, which covers 40_per_cent. It's approaching 50 percent of the presence of women. We remember that we are the 51_per_cent of the population. And this reality makes a lot of sense if we're talking about private ownership media. And so we are many, many, different and with great expertise in many areas, like men, or so we have to sort out. It's the same, but it's not identical. Advisor Munté, we want to ask what the work the Government is doing in equality policies, how it is developing and implementing the Law of Equality, and which activities and initiatives are being implemented to correct inequalities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.43.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Caula. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, a good question that allows us to close the compromise, as I said before, not only of the Government, which also, but also of the joint venture of the society, of the joint venture of the country. It's a good day today, but it's all of us, actually, to end this commitment and to make a recon in the women's pocket as well. This compromise perfectly connects with the objectives of sustainable development of the 2030 Agenda of United Nations, which tells us to achieve gender equality in all camps, 50_per_cent men, 50_per_cent women, equal to a society of the hundred_per_cent, and warns us of the costs, not only economics, but also social, political, in terms of progress, social cohesion..., of the costs that it would represent to dispense or to minimize the half of the population, which, at the very least, is what we are, the women. The commemoration of enguany– you highlighted it, too –..., United Nations highlights the economic empowerment of women. This was also the thread of the institutional act that we did to the Palau of the Generalitat yesterday on this issue. What do we expect from the government? Give answers. Give answers to the growing and changing needs of women. With this campaign that you also mentioned, we correct the inequality also to note that this is a challenge and an absolute responsibility of everyone, of men and women, of the joint administration, of society, of communication media. Communication mediums that, in effect, need to work more intensively. And the fact that women are women makes it clear to us that in the recount they don't come out well, the presence of women is still minority to many communication media, except for the Catalan public media, effectively, and a digital diary, according to the last recount. Answer. Response from the Government of the Generalitat before the shameful response that we sometimes get: "It is that we do not find women, it is that they are not. Of course they are. An expert seeker because he can very quickly locate the pool of women experts in many areas; or the Observers for Gender Equality; or the new strategic platform for equality policies; or, in the area of wage choice, the job that is being done from the Catalonia Employment Service and the Directorate General for Equal Opportunities, so as to be able to reduce this wage gap and help women with greater vulnerability; or the Field, a program with which from the Department of Education and the Department of Presidency we want to encourage the vocations of women in the scientific, mathematical, technical field, so as to be able to generate information, so that they can be represented by a large-scale society. I, you know what, Congresswoman? That we do not have enough, with this work, we want to do more, we want to be able to develop our law of effective equality men and women approved for this Parliament, and we want to continue doing so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.45.0	Counselor Munté, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.46.0	...from the hands of the entities and the... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone at the councillor and this continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the latest Mobile World Congress]] [[310-00188/11]] Sisena asks the Government, about the latest edition of the Mobile World Congress, formulated for Mr Albert Batet, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.48.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counsellor Baiget, it is clear, it is a remarkable fact that Catalans, all Catalans, are treated for the Spanish State as second-class citizens. More taxes than anyone else [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] ; an insufficient and unsustainable fiscal deficit; some incompliments in alarming infrastructure, which we have even added that the Mediterranean Corridor passes through Madrid, and some energetic costs that make companies lose competitiveness, with the benefit of all the parties that give sustainability to the PP government, Citizens and Socialists. But despite this understatement and this treatment as second-class citizens on the part of the Spanish State, and while we are working here for a referendum that is the elevator that goes from second to first, the Catalans hold firm the firm and willingness to believe in the economy and to believe that Catalonia can plant big estates in the world. Because Catalonia offers a space of opportunity in a favorable environment. And in the field of technology, ICT, Mobile, and in the economic sphere, there are tangible facts. Facts like exports, like May: the year 2016, 65,000_million exports in the field of technology, which have increased by 8.9_per_cent. Important ICT investments: Amazon al Prat, o IKEA e-commerce in Valls. Initiatives like Pier 01, in which there are a thousand entrepreneurs in their digital. The ICT sector is a dynamic sector of the Catalan economy: 84,600 workers, 12,800 businesses, €14,000_million in billing. Catalonia is the second region of southern Europe in this area. It's been a few years since Mobile. Encany didn't have the dotzena edition last week. Now that everyone's looking well – and even the mayor of Barcelona seems to have fallen as Pau, who has fallen from the horse and given support to Mobile – we would like to know what value the government has in making, on this tape that, in doubt, places Catalonia in this prime state that we want all Catalans and Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.49.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.50.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I can only agree with all the assessments you have made on this matter. [[remorse of voice and some applause]] the favorable evolution of the Catalan economy, because it is so, and it is true. And in this favorable evolution of the Catalan economy, despite... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.51.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.52.0	... all the bad guys, so Mobile plays an important role, because it's the world-wide thread of reference and it's what puts us in the center of the world in one of the areas that are the protagonists of this fourth industrial revolution that is taking place all over the world, that are the areas of telecommunications, but they are also the areas of connectivity, mobility, the internet of things, big data, everything – everything. And here we have a great responsibility and a great protagonist. Miri, you could talk to him about the balances that have been made: 108,000 professional visitors, more than 2,000 exhibitors, more than 430_million euros that have left themselves directly with the organization of this convention in Catalonia, but the most important thing is to extend the effects of Mobile Week to all businesses in this country. And how do we do that? So, in the first place, make that there are one hundred and five Catalan companies participating in Mobile. When you walk and ship talking to the entrepreneurs on Mobile, they say: "Four days of Mobile are real, seven months of work, because the contacts they give you, the discoveries you make of the new technologies, such as your competitors, what it is with what you can help you with is important. So this is the job – this is the job. This year we saw contact contracts made by Catalan companies, small and medium-sized Catalan companies, the past year, with important enterprises of the world. That's why we're here. And, besides, this sets us up, because there's not only the Mobile, because there's the reference of the tech enterprise in the south of the Mediterranean, which is the 4 Years From Now. Here we are with the referent. A report from the foundation..., a prestigious British foundation, Nesta, on innovation, situates Barcelona as one of the five world poles of attraction of entrepreneurs' projects. And that's what we want to do and we want to continue in the future. And that's why we created Yomo; Yomo is the Youth Mobile Congress, in which thirty-thousand Catalan students have been able to participate and have seen the beneficial effects of the new technologies at this congress.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about waiting lists in the health field]] [[310-00190/11]] Seven questions to the government, about waiting lists in the health field. The question is posed by Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.54.0	Thank you, President. Advisor of Greetings, speaking of second-hand citizens, last week the Government presented the lists of waits..., the data of the lists of waits of the year 2016. What did he value in fa, the councillor of Salut?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.55.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.56.0	Valuation is very simple: even though there was no presumption, and therefore, even though we could not implement the Pla de scoc de réduction des lists d'espera, the lists d'espera in Catalonia during this year, thanks to the effort and the efficiency of the Catalan hospitals, they have improved. And this is a little miracle that we have to thank the professionals of our hospitals. Look at the dice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.57.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Comín. The word has Mr. Santi Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.58.0	Thank you, Counselor. I'm sorry to disagree with your diagnosis, and if the counselor has a misdiagnosis, he'll hardly find any solutions. But, look, beyond the fact that statistics are necessary because they give us a global picture, you think that for 830,000 Catalans, patients, that at these times they are on waiting lists, the statistics for them are 100_per_cent on waiting lists. And for these Catalans, for these 832,000 Catalans, the concepts and principles of universality and equity of salvation do not work. They are on waiting lists, they are second-class citizens, just like the Catalans we are paying more taxes than the rest of the Spanish – certainly the result of decisions by the Government of the Generality and this Parliament of the independent majority. But, look, some data: interventions with terms of reference, there is a 10_per_cent..., more than 10_per_cent that triage more than a year; guaranteed interventions are not complete in 8.4_per_cent of people who are on waiting lists; in diagnostic tests, counselor, the average time has already passed from sixty-six days to eighty-five; 30_per_cent of patients waiting for diagnostic tests are more than three_months waiting. It is unacceptable that for mammography or echocardiography the waiting time is more than three_months. 37.6_percent of patients waiting to visit the specialist also trigate more than three_months. Counselor, do you remember your commitments? Reduce waiting list time for diagnostic and specialist tests by 50_per_cent? So, one year after his engagements, he didn't just reduce a 50_per_cent, but he increased a 29_per_cent. Counselor, your warrant is running out. If salvation is a structure of state, frankly they're treating it very badly. What do you intend to do, bearing in mind that in this assumption you will have fewer resources than you expected in the 2016 assumption and, moreover, this government is running out of money? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.59.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. There's a word from Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.60.0	Mr. Congressman, with all the esteem that you know I have you, the movies, in Hollywood. [[Rialles.]] Look, even if you don't have a wish, people who are on the waiting list for external consultations have decreased by 20_per_cent – even if you don't have a wish. Even though they are not happy, people who are on the waiting list of diagnostic tests have dropped by 7_per_cent – people, in relation to 2015. And that's why, as everyone knows, when the diagnostic list is returned, and when the list of external consultations is returned, people jump to the surgical list. And it is for this reason, for this reduction of 20_per_cent of external queries and for this reduction of 7_per_cent of diagnostic tests that the surgical list has increased a 2_per_cent – only a 2_per_cent. But it is more: the surgical list of guaranteed time has also decreased, because from the guaranteed time we have decreased 6 and a half percent people. The only list that has increased is the surgical list of reference time, because we have decreased the diagnostic phase, which is what we said – the diagnostic phase. The commitments of the shoc plan know perfectly well that they are linked to the assumption, we have explained it by active and passive, and, therefore, we will do the balance of whether we are completing the shoc plan when we had a year of assumption, as we have always said. But it's more like, we've focused our action, for these deficiencies this year, on the people who were out of time and in these camps everything has been reduced. Each time there is a lower percentage, in percentage, in relative terms, each time there are fewer people out of guaranteed time and out of reference time. Mr. MP, look, while some are dedicated to trying to destroy the health system, and they say it and recognize it, others have been working every day for a year to preserve it and improve it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.61.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the price crisis affecting food producers]] [[310-00183/11]] He asked the Government about the crisis of prices affecting food producers, formulated by Mr Óscar Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.62.0	Thank you, President. It will advise, as it is well known, that the agri-food sector of our country represents 3,6_percent of the Catalan GDP, which, while the economic crisis, has not stopped to innovate, has increased in exports and invoices more years ago..., we all know that it brings about an intolerable and worrying reality, which must be addressed by the difficult situation of farmers and ramaders. As the country cannot afford to allow half of the professional farmers in Catalonia to have surrendered in the past few years, to leave land, to leave the territory, or to have their agricultural income lowered by about 40_percent since 2001. On the other hand, we see that production costs do not stop increasing: energy, labour, etc., and, on the other hand, the price paid by these farmers and rowers does not stop falling. We come with some fruit, vegetables, meat products, they're at the price of 30 years ago. Unacceptable and, obviously, unsustainable. And public assumptions obviously don't stop falling for the sector. Counselor, what is the government's understanding of this situation? And, above all, who are the actions you have planned to prevent the crisis of prices suffered by food producers in the country?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.64.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. As you said, we're carrying a trajectory in which the sector has suffered. And once we got into the Councilhouse we found ourselves with a whole series of sectors with heavy price crises, and what we've done since we came in is to try to reverse the maximum of these situations taking into account all the skills we have and, from here, the proposal of the Councilhouse is to continue improving all that is the incorporation of young people, a great boost for the future of the sector. But, obviously, we will not do this if we do not have well-structured and well-sized sectoral policies. And in this we will continue to work and, as we have more skills, we will certainly do much better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. The word has the Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.66.0	He'll advise, what it takes is to meet the standards. The producer every second and, in change, the consumer pays much more. Someone's gaining a lot from this situation. An imbalance that will increase, as well as economic growth, and will worsen for the concentration of wealth and because distribution to large business groups has a dominant position. The government does not pay attention to resources and does not control to ensure that standards are met. Do you agree that it is necessary to avoid the abuse of power and the morosity of the great distribution? Control and sanction the sale under cost, why is it forbidden? Do you agree that it is necessary to improve the transparency of the priests through the Idescat? – something we should have done before. Do you agree that the law of the food chain should be completed? In short, to ensure that commercial relations are fair and, obviously, to guarantee free competition. We, the Councillor, from the Socialist Group, are calling for a country pact to guarantee worthy prices to our food producers, who are suffering from the country's run-off, and to curb the severe crisis that the agricultural sector has seen and is gathering. If we say that with food we do not play, with the economy, less and, obviously, with the development of the territory, neither, to avoid depopulation and impoverishment. And, obviously, we have a government that gives solutions, that has a clear strategy, that gives more answers and, obviously, that touches a few on the ground and that is excused and lamented. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.67.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word for Constellera Meritxell Serret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.68.0	Thank you, President. Congressman, we agree, we have to go to work and, as I have said from the first moment, from this council we have been. He's asking us for our own policies. We are doing so; we are pushing, as I said, at the very most our skills. In transparency and price formation, we are pushing the price observatories; we have already declared statistical interest in agricultural prices, which had never been done, and we are already working with the sector to put the price observatories into fruit, rabbit and dried fruit. Faced with, besides, improving the value chain, we're acting. And, in fact, this week we approve, as a rule, our own resolution, the creation of the economic circumscription of the fruit; three economic circumscriptions: pressec and nectarine, apple and pear. We act, and we act fast; in less than a year, we have done it. We are also driving local production, proximity products and consumer promotion, pushing, and every time, the promotion of fruit and go to schools. This week we had the project in front of the schools; the fruit program to the schools up already to more than 200,000 students ran from the country. We're also pushing the ovi-cabrum recovery plan. We pulled the low-capacity drainer into the operation to give more out to the proximity product of the Ovi-Cabrum sector. We're driving the marketing plan for rabbit meat together with the sector. We are driving the roads of the mail sector, which in the next few weeks we will be presenting raids of the country; and we are also pushing the table of good commercial practices with the whole sector. And, in fact, I invite you on March 14th to the day we will make on how we improve the value chain in the fresh fruit sector. I invite you to participate together with industry and experts and the department We feel pioneers in many ways. The economic circumscriptions are the first to throw them away. And we feel pioneers too with the tables of good commercial practices. As a national pact, yes, we invite them to be. We'll push it forward, we're working with the labor sector, we'll invite you to participate; because that, yes or yes, we have to do it all, and as, I insist, more competition, more and better to be able to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the competitiveness of the Catalan economy]] [[310-00184/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the competitiveness of the Catalan economy. The question is posed by Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.70.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, all of you. Counselor Baiget, I'm glad to see you again. The 27th of February saw that the European Union was presenting its third report on regional competitiveness, which has been published since 2010. It is a report that does provide information that allows regions to know and improve their competitiveness to generate more attractive and sustainable environments for entrepreneurs and workers. In this latest report, Catalonia loses positions; loses positions in a very clear way; we move from 142 to 153 out of a total of 263 regions, despite the fact that Catalonia stands above the European average per capita income. So, it's a cup that still has to worry us more. Moreover, this report places us with a group of regions where Rhône-Alpes or Tuscany or Lisbon is located, but it places us, within this group, at the top; therefore, also a worrying situation. You tell us this report that we are implementing results at the general level, and in the three areas that are being analysed there are worrying facts. In one of the groups, for example, it gives us a suspense for what makes the quality of our institutions, a 41,1_about_100. In the field of innovation, a just approval, a 50,2_about_100; and in the efficiency group – there are such key and important elements as higher education, training, efficiency, the labour market – a 54_about_100. In this environment, we lose twenty-six positions. Counselor, troubling data. We would like to know what value the government makes, and its department in concrete terms, and what measures they think they will take to respect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.71.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, what the Government is doing is, like all these studies, looking at them, seeing what it is that we have no more position to do, and working, if we have not already done so – because these reports have as reference dates 2012 and 2013, many of these data in the midst of crisis–, taking notes and making policies that can improve the situation in these areas in Catalonia. But the same way I tell him that we take it positively, I also tell him that Catalonia, in terms of competitiveness, is not only losing but winning, as the evolution of exports proves. If we weren't competitive, we wouldn't come to the outside world, and we've grown a 2-per-cent, when – much more than the European Union media – there are many countries that are traditionally exporters that have fallen and we are steadily increasing market share abroad.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.73.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.74.0	It is clear, Counselor, that you always do everything about exports, that you have more to see with the competitiveness of our companies than with regional competitiveness, which is what this report is talking about. And I think, counselor, that you should have given another answer, a little more honest. We are losing positions in a report by the European Union of all regions – 263 European regions – and in very important elements such as higher education, the quality of institutions, our labour market. Listen, the answer that the Socialist Group would expect – this is not a question that we are asking to highlight that obvious – is that what we would like to expect is for you to tell us: "Look, yes, I have secured my department. Let's see who these efficiencys are and work them out. Because probably what this report does is that we haven't had an economic development model in a long time. We can't trust the Mobile World Congress or the Tech City in Barcelona; we can't trust all this. Among other things, because the great impulse and the great initiative of these projects are not of the Generality. As far as we are concerned, we have a clear model of economic development, which fosters and puts knowledge at the centre of the economy. Probably, that's not what we're doing, and that's why we lose position. Counselor, be honest and work with this model; with a clear model that leads us to be a more competitive community at the regional level. As the region, not from the point of view of businesses, which is to which you always end up making reference. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.75.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. There's a word from Councilman Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.76.0	Miri, Mrs Romero, we've done this analysis. And I will say to him: in innovation, there are two areas; there are various elements of analysis in the field of innovation. First of all, what is innovation, you know how many you lose, Catalonia, position in innovation? Cap, why are you in your 40s? [[some applause]] , in Guanya forty in business innovation. So, we're losing the situation in this...? In business sophistication. What does business sophistication mean? In other words, they value more those economies that have more employment in the service than in other sectors. Listen, we're an industrial country. Is it not necessary to boost industry with respect to other sectors? Don't you think this is the good way to grow up? This indicator measures the destruction of work places in the service sector. Obviously, the year 2012 and the year 2013 destroyed a lot– a lot– occupation in real estate services and in the financing system. But if we measure this variable, if we believe in this variable, it's not necessarily negated. Because, in the field of industrial policy, for example, we have a fortress that they have no other regions and that they would like to have, and that we want to strengthen in the future. One more thing. In long-term education and university education, which is another place in which we lose positions, according to the report, there is a new indicator that came out with this background, that before it came out, in the other indicator, that it is a population between divided and twenty-four years that only has as much compulsory secondary education. Yeah, we got to get better here. But this is done with data from 2012 and 2013. And how did we get better? So, prestigious professional training, making a law of professional training that can give answer in these situations and decisively driving dual training. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.77.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's political agenda in relation to the fight against corruption]] [[317-00123/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Ms. Anna Gabriel, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.78.0	Since last week, and after almost eight years of waiting, we have been watching the court known as the Palau case judge. It is fair if Palau was to make a triangular covert of the payment of some 6,6_million euros from Ferrovial to Democratic Convergence of Catalonia to change the public work awarded to this company. The global plunder would amount to about 34_million euros. With Millet and Montull's confession, but also with others like Pujol himself, the fang came to what some understood to be the Catalan oasis. And it's that corruption, which for us is intrinsic to the political and economic system, has no borders or flags. The popular accusation in the Palau case also denounced the Millet pact because, on a change of subsidies from the Ministry of Culture of the Spanish State, former President Aznar entered the Catalan society. We also know that Mr. Millet is moving with some ease to the Barcelona Assembly, as we saw in the Palau hotel case. You see, this has nothing to do with you being independent at the banquet. That's, in fact, everything else. Who is the government's political agenda in relation to the fight against corruption?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.79.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.80.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The government's political agenda is basically about two commitments. One, no cases of political corruption, and this government doesn't have any. Two, take those measures that prevent political corruption and, therefore, that increase the mechanisms of control, transparency, data opening, to make it even more difficult than what you have defined as an attitude that has no borders or flags, therefore, can run excessively at our house.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.81.0	Thank you, President. I have the word Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.82.0	Of the fifty-one anti-corruption measures announced by the President on behalf of the President, but the February 2013, inclusive inter-institutional summit, only 7_per_cent had been completed by 2015. They're data from the Anti-Fraud Office. From the motion that we presented ourselves, the CUP - Constituent Creed, now it will be eight months, all are about to implement, and although, perhaps, something has been done, it would only be missing, we want there to be a presidency of the Generality that is absolutely exemplary; not in the speeches but in the effective work that is done in the fight against corruption. We don't want you flirting with anyone who has anything to do with corruption. And, in fact, in this chamber there are some people appointed, although they are still not imputed. We want it to be permanently broken with the political culture of this country that passes political formations; they of 3_per_cent, they of 4_per_cent or you know what percentages. We want that the presumption of innocence screen is no longer converted into an excuse. Do we agree that independence does not want tomorrow to come together in the world yesterday? Do we agree that we will not allow anyone to whitewash corruption with the independence process? [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.83.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.84.0	Thank you very much. I will start with this later: absolutely agree– absolutely agree–, and I believe that the attitude of this Government, of all its members, is not an example, of what you claim, because it has already been done. Secondly, the data you donate are not exactly the data that was already provided by the Romeva Councillor in a parliamentary appearance; they do not coincide, because the degree of compliment is quite superior. Thirdly, that Transparency International placed the Government of Catalonia as one of the best in its practices seems to me that it is not random, and that it should be put in value, because it is not simple in a context like our ability to achieve this good perception, this good given. Fourthly, I will not trivialize the concept of presumption of innocence. You did it. But it is very dangerous to enter a land or a society..., or to build a society in which we start from the permanent suspension and the "infuse before a process is judicialized. In the case of legal proceedings, let us accept the results, that there are consequences if there is no need, and above all one thing that you have not said and which this government has been demanding since the first day: judicial means because they can do their good work. Do you know how many judgments rung in Catalonia in relation to the middle of the State? So, a lot less. Caldreen much more judicious, caldreen more judicious, caldreen more resources; it would, therefore, heat up that the time for the investigation of a case before is not seen the judgment is shorter and more independent. And that's as important as rhetoric and proclamations. In this sense, I invite you to reinforce this criterion and this idea: to want to give judicial and police bodies the tools necessary to be able to do their job independently, which is a fundamental element because there can be justice, and professional media, to be able to do their job independently of the pressures or interests that may exist, which are also a form of corruption.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.85.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the government's non-attendance to a conference of autonomous communities for the signature of a manifesto against gender-based rape]] [[317-00124/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.86.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...agreements... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Say that, coincidentally... start again, huh? [[Rialles.]] Well, to say that, coinciding with the International Day of Donors, and the result of the agreements of the summit of presidents, a conference is held in Madrid tomorrow to sign a great agreement against the violence of gender between the Government of Spain, the central Government, and the governments of all autonomous communities. Our surprise is that the only autonomous government that has not confirmed its assistance is Catalonia. For what reason does the Government of Catalonia not attend this conference?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.87.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.88.0	You must be misinformed, because, first, there is a ple in Parliament, the Government is here, but Catalonia sends the president of the Catalan Institute of Donations.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.89.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.90.0	Mr. President, surely the ill-informed must be you, because this conference is to be attended by the councillors – or the councillors – and until yesterday afternoon was not confirmed, which puts into evidence how you do things, which puts into evidence that while the rest of the communities will send the highest representatives there, so you live in a reality parallel to that of the normal people, ruling for yourself. Mr Puigdemont, I must say that the Government of Catalonia has become a problem for most decent Catalans. They express their desires, their own desires, with the wishes of Catalonia. And I have to tell you that it's not that we already think that we don't just exist, the Catalans that we're not independent, but that we believe that they don't care about those who are. Your only interest, all you care about, is the personal future of all of you. We have seen in the last few hours surrealist episodes, such as the amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia; a regulation that is intended, in a way..., with night and lightness, to adopt a law towards independence. We have seen, also in the last few hours, how they are trying to co-sponsor the parliamentary debate or how they intend to push a budget forward outside the law. With all these behaviors, with this way of doing, Mr President, do you think you can put forward a serious draft of independence? Do you think they are presenting to the world a serious project of what Catalonia is? I will tell you what you are representing at this moment: at this moment you are representing a project of independence that is more like a weekend cap, a weekend fair, than a serious parliament of an autonomous community of a country of the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.91.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.92.0	Yes; thank you very much. I already know that you, fulfilling parliamentary obligations, for which we have read the press, do not interest them very much, but the councilwoman is here today in Parliament in a session of control of the Government. The representative, representing her in this case, of the Government of Catalonia is there. And, of course, he's not the only person representing an autonomous community who doesn't have the status of a councillor or a councillor. It's fixed in the confirmed list, fixed in the confirmed list, and you'll see that what you say is plainly false. This attempt to put this government through what is not will not stand the proof of propaganda. Look, what interest do you have in the results of a graveyard or theater? We are interested in the results, and at the moment, if we have to judge the results of the Spanish Government with the commitments it has made to Catalonia and with the conjunction of the autonomous communities, the results shine for its absence. Now, gesticulation, everything you want, but here this country has already said no. This country, of gesticulation, will not do it. What worries you is that there is a government that is determined, decided to one thing you have to surprise them very much, that is to fulfill their parliamentary and electoral commitments. And fill them in on time, hey! , and complete them in shape. Because you refer to the process of reforming the Rules of Parliament, which is perfectly legal, perfectly formal, in line with what other parliaments are already doing or what the Congress of Deputies has already approved, and you pretend that we think this is a way of subverting, as you say, legality. Do you know what's going on, Mr. Albiol? That the problem is not single-read processing, the problem is processing, not single-reading, because neither with single-reading nor without single-reading. And this government, with the mechanisms it has in the abst, will do everything possible to make things right in time and form, according to what it approved. Because, in fact, using a similitude that has corrected a lot these past few months, what has happened is that the hamster has come out of the wheel and stopped rolling, and now those who are complaining that the hamster rode on the wheel, are now complaining that it has stopped rolling and that it is looking for other paths to make possible what this Parliament – this Parliament – has approved as a result of the citizens' vote in Catalonia on 27 September. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.93.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the plan of the Government before the situation created by the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees on the draft law of assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia for 2017]] [[317-00126/11]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.94.0	Thank you very much, President. President, maybe the hamster's out of the wheel, but it looks like it's still a little tidal. [[Give me the applause.]] Look, we've had quite a few days, we've had quite a few days, President. In a few days you have tried to forcefully place a reform of the Rules, you have announced to us a success – three, if we have not lost count – of different full routes, and, finally, when we have had an opinion of the Council of State Guarantees which questioned the use of a unilateral way to celebrate a referendum, we have heard many voices that tell us that they do not care. We, before all this, have asked for an appearance of you before this chamber to be able to explain itself as it should; but today the question is bound: does the government have a plan? Do you have a plan before this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rabell, the government has a plan – I don't know where you were the day this Parliament approved it by an absolute majority – which is a government plan that wasn't only approved on the 10th generation of 2016, but was ratified with a later question of confidence. That day perhaps you were hunting for papillons, but this Parliament approved exactly... [[remorse of the voice]] , approved exactly what you're asking me now if you have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.97.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.98.0	This government has a plan, it has a plan of government, that has explained it explicitly, and that, hey! You see for where, he's following and he's doing his best to complete it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.99.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.100.0	Well, the debate is cheering up, isn't it? [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, I don't know if you're going to have a plan with a collision path while playing the Titanic orchestra, so let's start here feeling a sequence of things that start to worry us seriously, huh? Every time we're feeling more speeches that bet on how worse, better. I do not know, here, I am surprised to hear in the mouth of people who are ordinary people and moderate parties the re-editing of theories that are from the extreme left of May 68, from the Mao-spontanists: we provoke an angry reaction from the State, which will surely radicalize the people and we will achieve our objectives. This is pure adventure – pure adventure. Mr President, what we want to propose to you, and do so with insistence, and there has been the feeling of the thought that we introduced yesterday, that we presented yesterday, for what it does to the assumption, for which it makes this additional provision controversial, is to find a way of doing it, a way of doing it that respects the commitments and possibilities of this Parliament, the struggle and the work for a given reference, and that respects at the same time a board of statutory guarantees and its dictions; a board of statutory guarantees, let us remember it, that if its opinions are not binding by decision of the Constitutional Court. Here, in a few things, sometimes, we are well-determined by Spanish legal provisions. Therefore, we insist on providing this runway to the government to find an honorable way out of this situation. Now, we already have the custom that, when we offer our other runways, some, in their camp, systematically bombard them. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.101.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.102.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, what has happened to the Board of State Guarantees is that it may have questioned our poetry, but it has endorsed our entire prose. And we do not lose sight of it, because it sees the time to make clear and direct decisions, explicit, consistent with the commitments adopted and approved for this Parliament. And we should all be here. What we finally approve in the matter of the presumption will be – no doubt – in the sense that Parliament wants. And, second of all, he will go scrupulously with respect to the State... – we would try not to make mistakes in the state version, certainly – but he will go with absolute respect to the doctrine of the State and to which this Parliament of Catalonia approves. Not everyone can say the same. Because at once we have seen the Catalan policy and the media as well as the doctrine of the State Guarantee Board as if it were the Bible to follow, which this government has always done, but not everyone says the same thing. Do you know how many judgments approved unanimously to the laws of the Parliament of Catalonia of the Council of Guarantees Statutes have served..., have not served before the Government of the Spanish State, which has brought to the Constitutional Court laws approved for this Parliament with a favourable opinion for the Council of Guarantees Statutes? Do you know how many Spanish decrees and laws have relied on unanimous reports from the State Guarantee Board that are contrary to the Spanish Constitution and the Spanish Government has considered their handling to be the same? One of the last, of course, has to do with a feeling that the Constitutional Court..., that the Spanish government is incomplete, that it is that of the IRPF. There is also here not only clear constitutional sentiments that the Spanish Government passes through the clatell but there are reports from the Council of State Guarantees that effectively that decree of the Spanish Government is against the Statute and the Constitution. It served not to change anything but to feel in all the groups..., scandalized today because the Guarantee Board has made a report... – that we will find the way to complete exactly what the Guarantee Board recommends, saving the prose I gave him –, someone has felt that everything that the State Guarantee Board has done, in all these years, with so much strength and unanimity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.103.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.104.0	...to question what the Spanish government has done? [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the abolition of the thirty-first additional provision of the draft law of assumptions of the Generalitat de Catalunya for 2017]] [[317-00125/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality on the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.105.0	Thank you, Madam President. And since the president needed more time to talk about the opinion, I will provide it, because my question was also about that. I don't know... the distinction between prose and poetry is quite clear, but it seems to me that the readings of the opinion are very different. To me, Mr President, I am not going to say: "As others do not do the right thing or do the right thing, we do them badly so that we will all be comforted. It's not like that. And this Guarantee Board says: « Presumptive legislative power must respond to the pattern of distribution of competences that delimit the Constitution and the Statute. Says: "The reference figure is a general purpose consultation institution assumption reserved exclusively for the State. That's what the Guarantee Board tells us. And before that, I want to ask you, President: do you agree to delete the thirty-first additional provision of the Presumables Bill?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.106.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.107.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, the Warranty Board also says more things. You also say that what you just said, that the council disagrees – you say that, too. What I can answer is what I have answered before to Mr Rabell: "The one who approves this Parliament will agree with what this Parliament has approved, as it could not be otherwise, and will agree with the State and will scrupulously complete the State of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.108.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.109.0	Miri... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. I think the opinion on this is very honest, and, indeed, it says: "There are things that we don't like, but it is the law and it has to be completed. And I expect from the government of Catalonia, from this legal mark, which you do exactly the same. I will always accept any criticism, any discrepancy. I won't accept the law's failure. And, besides, tell him that if the opinion says it's true, that we believe it is, what he says is that his government can't do what he wants to do. And that's the problem. And, therefore, we can answer questions of detail of an article, of a provision, of an opinion, but the basis of the question is clear: you want to do something that you cannot do. And it's more, rushed by the circumstances that follow, they want to skip any threshold and any procedure. I ask you: we can agree that if one day there is a law of disconnection or independence it will be the most important that you have ever made this Statute..., alas, I forgive this Parliament; we do not do it by the back door, we do not do it by night, we do not do it by single reading, we do it with light and tachographs. He's been working on this bill for months, so why isn't it public? Why does it turn out that you want to carry through the deputies or the groups? It's legitimate, you can do it! But do they think you're normal? Do you think that goes with a solid parliamentary democracy? Is this the transparency and democratic quality they are offering for the new Catalan republic they want to build? President, not in our name. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.111.0	Thank you very much. No, no, no, these last few days, Mr. Iceta, we've already made it clear that it won't be in your name, in any case it will be with the permission of the PSOE. [[Perlongats applause.]] But..., the law..., you say..., you make a reference to the need to complete the laws. Exactly – exactly – how are we not doing the law with the processing of the premise? Exactly what? In res, Mr.Iceta – in res. Can you tell me how we're not doing the law with the presupposition processing? In res. Secondly: how are we not doing the law in the..., or how is the law of Parliament not doing the law, in this case, when the reform of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia is proposed? In res. There's not enough to think that the law is only good when it's applied by you and when it's applied by the independents then the law is not good. There is this two-speed democracy that consists of saying, "If it's legal, it's democratic. [[Greetings.]] Hey, if they do it on behalf of the Constitution! But if it's legal and the independenceists put it, then maybe it's not so democratic anymore and you want to skip all the laws and all the limits. Exactly what limit have we skipped with the presupposition processing? What limit have we skipped or has the Parliament skipped in the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia? Listen, you ask us that independence is done with lights and tachographs. You want something brighter and tachygraphed than a reference? Because it will do so, it is not done through the Rules of Parliament, independence. It will if the citizens of Catalonia decide. Now, you – who have so much interest in being debated in Parliament, like me, and like this government – are willing to allow any law that leads to the celebration of a referendum on Catalonia's independence to be passed in this Parliament without having to file a complaint and allow the Bureau of Parliament to put a point of debate and vote on the agenda? Are you willing to do that? He'll say no to me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Therefore, if it is not available – say no, man [[the President of the Generality]] , neither one thing nor the other –, I do not deny to us that, making use of the law – of the law – we are trying to fulfill, in a scrupulous way, the mandate of the citizens. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.112.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees on the draft law of assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia for 2017]] [[317-00122/11]] Fourteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated for Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.113.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, the Board of State Guarantees has unanimously said that its departure to repeat the 9-N is contrary to the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy itself. It is no longer the prosecution, it is no longer the evil Constitutional Court, no, it is the Guarantee Board, which you have chosen in this Parliament, which tells you that your plan cannot be carried out because it is illegal. Mr Puigdemont, the time of truth has come and you have to decide. Will they continue to obey the UPC or will they begin to obey common sense?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.114.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.115.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, it cost him more than a year to hear that the time of truth has come. Because, just's, since I appeared in this rostrum to ask for Parliament's vote on my investiture I said that the time had come to apply to what we compromised before the citizens. Welcome, then, to the reality of things. Look, we've had enough of feeling advice on your part and on the part of many groups that we have to complete the laws. And we must especially complement what he sees from the Constitutional Court. Are you saying that we do not have to pay attention to what the Constitutional Court says to what it does to the Council of State Guarantees?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.116.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.117.0	You guys are doing such weird things... [[Rialles.]] Now defending the ruling of the Constitutional Court. Look, you're talking about a democratic mandate and that you're fulfilling what you've committed to the citizens. And I ask you: what democratic mandate? , the full route they ran for election with? Was the one saying that they were going to declare independence in eighteen months and that the referendum was a past screen? That one? That you have changed forty times? Is that the democratic mandate? I think you're kidding even the good faith independenceists who believed in your promises. Because your plan is illegal and unreal fraud. And I recognize that you have achieved a very difficult thing, Mr Puigdemont: it is dividing Catalan society into two and lying to us and defrauding us in two halves. I admit it's difficult. And now the last thing is that you want to jump to the toaster the Rules of Parliament to silence the opposition and pass laws without the debate of more than half the Catalans. Because I remind you that the four opposition groups you want to silence represent more votes than Junts for Yes and the CUP. You, Mr Puigdemont, have no more plans than to repeat the 9-N. It does not face the problems of Catalans. And above all, it does not fight corruption, because, by the way, today is the Palau case trial and today we have not seen you in court. Maybe he didn't take it by step but what a difference of image. Set yourself... [[applause]] , when those who are going to testify in the courts are the Barcenes of Convergence you are not seen making demonstrations at the door. Is it not today, Mr. Puigdemont, to accompany the members of your party's leadership to the courts? Look, you're not going to be able to cover up the problems of the Catalans, their inability to manage or the corruption of their party's dome. Mr Puigdemont, the most useful, the most sensible, the most relevant thing you will do in your brief term will be to call elections. And the later we summon the more time and money it will make us lose all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.118.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.119.0	Thank you very much. Mrs Arrimadas, just a few minutes ago, when you asked the Romeva Councillor for transparency, you praised the opinion of the Bureau of Parliament. But when the Bureau of Parliament allows a reform of the Rules to be carried out, then we are violating and violating I do not know exactly what things. That's the two-speed democracy I gave them. But don't worry, we won't do anything that you don't get used to and compromise on. The unique reading in this country, in general, is useful because it exists..., in short, the prerogative is given by the Government, which the parliamentary groups would not understand exactly how to take the view. In any case, it's a decision of each group. And if the group does not want to go to the committee of the Parliament that deals with the reform of the Rules with time and form in a legal way, it is you who will decide to leave the parliamentary group unseen if you do not go to the question. But in any case, I do not accuse us of leaving them unseen if you have rightly failed to desert and resign from your responsibilities as elected. Look, I'm gonna read you some things that have been done in one reading to the Spanish State. The law on the abdication of the king and the head of state was done for one reading, or so we have a head of state for one reading. The reform of the Presuppositional Enabling Law was done for a single reading. The rescue of the autonomous communities was done by one reading. The processing of the new Spanish sovereignty agreement with the United States over Moron was done by one reading, and certainly between the praises of the opposition party, the PSOE, emphasizing that the transcendence of that agreement justified the one reading. The Organic Law of the Judiciary was done for one reading. The Constitutional Court's reform law is by one reading. Arriving in an anti-terrorist pact and modifying the penal code was done by one reading, and constitutional reform, you see, was done by one reading, too. So we don't give lessons. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.120.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the use of legal and democratic mechanisms to make it possible for the people of Catalonia to speak]] [[317-00127/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the latest political events, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.121.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Most honorable president, it is clear that we are in the countdown of the reference, and in God's faith that this is noted from many points of view. We know that, and the State knows it. From the Parliamentary Group of Together for Yes our determination, despite all the clothes we have, is and remains intact. And that's exactly why we announce, and let's say here, that we will do everything we can, we will use all the mechanisms that we have, democratically and legally, in our midst to make the reference possible, because we find ourselves in an exceptional situation. What's the exceptional situation? So we are the only parliament in which a court is telling us what we can talk about and what we can't talk about. But he goes further and says who can talk about what and who can't talk about what. An exceptional situation for there to be an execution, the central government of the Spanish State, which uses a judge, through the Constitutional Court and the prosecution, to block a legislature, which is this Parliament. And an exceptional situation because we have the Bureau of Parliament which is the victim of ideological quarrels. If the rulings made by the Speaker of Parliament... she wasn't an independentist, they were telling her there wouldn't be a problem. But as an independentist, here's the problem. This is the democratic quality that all of you propose to us and all of you keep quiet. And they come to us to give us lessons from not knowing what? Listen, let's be clear: we will use all the tools and mechanisms that we have at our disposal and that we can use in a democratic and legal way. To do what? Because... I don't throw it away, not to make an approval of a law of hope, so, no. To do what? So, to get the citizens free, individually, to grab a paper, to put it in an urn and say whether Catalonia wants to be independent or not, that's the most democratic thing there is. And, therefore, we will not let ourselves be intimidated by all those who have been sorely demanding I don't know what kind of debate, when what they want is to ban the sight of the citizen of Catalonia. Who are we legal, legitimate? Who are they loyal to? To the people of Catalonia. And that's what we want to determine. And that's why we, the president, want to ask you what your and your government's opinion is about all of this stuff that we're patenting and the fact that they want to use all of the mechanisms in a democratic, legal and legitimate way to make it possible for the people of Catalonia to speak. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.122.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.123.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, do you know what's going on? That what I said in other control sessions I recommended, to opposition groups especially, that it is not believed in its own propaganda, because it could lead them to error. And it's going to happen that when the legislature started, some people already gave it for amortization, that they said that these things that we would not get there, that we would have to make choices before, that we wouldn't understand each other, that they would perish, I don't know how many things. Look, you see, we're already well ahead of the legislature, we're handling the last tram and we have the compliment on the degree to which we wanted to have the dues we had made, both for what it obviously does to the state structures as it does to the country's management and governance. Therefore, it is necessary to get used to everyone – and as they have already done..., they are already late – to the idea that this government will complement what it has always said. I shouldn't be surprised. I see that I still feel, for many, a surprise that this government does what it says. And this is one of the reasons why we should also strengthen the idea of a new country. Politics must serve the interests of the citizens, and not use the citizens to continue politics, doing everything..., that which pleases, to maintain the fiction that the citizen is being served..., but when the citizens express themselves clearly and do not like it, or to some extent does not like it, the person who says, reinterpret it, or say: "You mean that they have meant this, exactly, the citizens? You mean the two million people who voted independence are really independent? No, wait for the offer of the State, or « wait for a new state, or « wait – worse – « for the Senate to come to Barcelona. No, huh? No, no, Keep it clear. And they won't find a single word of contradiction between what this government does and what it said it would do. Why? Because we have a compromise and a high sense of democratic demand. And because, among all of us, I think we'd do well to accept an idea, and it's that old idea that Victor Hugo said "there's nothing more powerful than an idea that his time has come to. And whether we like it or not, whether we like it or not, there are a lot of people in this country who have said enough – a lot of people who have said enough. And this deserves to be listened to and listened to. And, as far as I can see, of all these people who say enough, that it's a lot more than the independenceist, the only ones who care about us a few, and the rest of them want to see that they live in a parallel reality in which this cry and this complaint of so many people – I insist, not only independenceist – does not exist. This is the parallel reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.124.0	Thank you, President. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] Let's move to the next point of the order of the day, which is the communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As the new composition of the Commission of the Syndicate of Greuges and of the Commission of Study of Industrial Policies in the Automotive Sector, CEPISA, has been included in the file of the Ple, the nails are that the reading is limited. Okay? [[Pause.]] Okay. Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00083/11 and 234-00151/11]] The third point on the agenda is the compatibility situation of Members. In accordance with Rule 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall then read out the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has also been published in the plenary file. I would like to ask Mrs Ramona Barrufet to read the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.125.0	‘The Commission of the Status of Deputies, at its plenary session on 31 January 2017, granted to draw up the following opinion: After examining the data declared for the Member Àngels Ponsa and Roca relating to the professional, labour or business activities which it carries out and to the public authorities which it occupies, in addition to Article 23.1b of the Rules of Procedure, the Commission shall, taking into account the rules applicable to the incompatibility of the Members, in accordance with Article 18.2 of the Rules of Procedure, propose to the plenary the compatibility situation of the Member Àngels Ponsa and Roca. Once examined the new data declared for the Member Jordi Cuminal and Roquet relating to the profession he exercises and the public office he occupies, in accordance with Article 19.2 of the Rules and the applicable legislation, the Commission, in addition to the provisions of Article 18.2 of the Rules, proposes to the plenary the compatibility situation of the Member Jordi Cuminal and Roquet. Palau del Parlament, 31st generation of 2017. The secretary in charge of the commission, Anna Figueras and Ibàñez, and the chairman of the commission, Jordi Soler González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.126.0	Thank you, secretary. Is the opinion approved by consent? [[Pause.]] If there is no objection, the opinion shall be adopted. Let's get to the next point of the order of the day. Now we're going to do the debate and vote on the validation of the decree, but I'm going to remind you that when there are five minutes left to hold them and download them, as we've approved or communicated them to the principle..., because yesterday it was approved by the Bureau for unanimity. Okay? [[Pause.]] Therefore, the plenary session will normally be held until five minutes are left. When we're five minutes away, we'll hang on, we'll be where we are. [[Decree Law 1/2017, of the 14th of February, for which the Register of Interest Groups of Catalonia is created and regulated]] [[203-00008/11]] Therefore, we now begin the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 1/2017, of the 14th of February, for which the Register of Interest Groups of Catalonia is created and regulated. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, the Honourable Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justícia, hereby submits this Decree of the Law. [[Pause.]] Please ask them to leave in a hurry, because we must continue with the session. Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.127.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies and deputies, good morning. As you know, the Transparency Law, approved for this Parliament in 2014, provided, among many other things, for the creation of a register of interest groups for each of the administrations. Obviously, the Government of the Generality did its dues, created this register of interest groups, put it on the market, and today there are around 1,500 entities and registered persons. The local world, too, agreed with the law, had, and has, the duty to create these registers of interest groups. But, certainly, the legal forecast created some difficulties in the legal, technical and even economic sphere, which have caused that in many cases, in most cases, in fact, the inn was not possible in the margin of these registers of interest groups. This issue, obviously, has concerned the entire local world, has concerned all the entities and bodies of the local world, because, obviously, its main intention is to be able to complete the law and to meet one of the requirements and requests established by the Transparency Law. For this reason, from the Department of Justice we have concluded a debate with the assembly of entities of the municipal world and of administrations, with the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia, the Barcelona Assembly, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, the deputies and the local councils, in order to try to find a solution that gives answer to this need. If we do not approve the decree that we now subject to validation, caldria, in Catalonia, create more than two_ thousand registers of interest groups so that the local public sector joint can complete this obligation. Until today, only the Terrassa and Sant Cugat assemblies have granted the creation of these registers of interest groups, so that in both cases it did not come to work. And that's why we've taken the initiative since the government to adapt the Transparency Law and make it easier to compliment the obligation to create and operate the Register of Interest Groups. That's why we believe that the law decree is a good mechanism to ensure the compliment of this law and to make it as long as possible, as long as this is an obligation that is in force. Among the positive elements of this decree that we are subject to today's consideration because it can be validated, there is, of course, in the first place, the possibility of completing the law in a faster way, of making it easier for local authorities to join and join the local public sector, of simplifying its procedures, of avoiding the creation of two_ thousand registers in the conjunction of the administrations of Catalonia; of course, this..., also among the positive elements, an economic one for the conjunction of the administrations. And, certainly, and here probably the most useful and essential element of this proposal and of this initiative... is to facilitate consultation and follow-up of the activities of interest groups. You still have to understand that it's much easier to follow up on the activity of interest groups when this is concentrated in a single register and you don't want to make a pilgrimage, perhaps impossible, over two thousand registers. Therefore, facilitating the consultation and follow-up of the activities of interest groups is one of the other positive elements, but it is also facilitating the task of interest groups which are legitimately related to the Administration. In short, what this decree does is to ensure transparency, to ensure that the follow-up to the activity of interest groups is truly transparent. Because they know that the "transparent" word may mean more than one thing. Transparent is what..., through what is transparent is all that's in the other band; transparent is also the thing that you can't see. With two thousand registers, I think we'd be in the second of the definitions of transparency. It would be so transparent that we couldn't see it. On the other hand, if we can concentrate all the information on the activity of interest groups in a single register, we will ensure what the Transparency Law really wants, that it is possible to follow up on all citizens and all possible control mechanisms of which is the legitimate activity that interest groups do when they relate to the Administration. Therefore, with the creation of this register we ensure transparency in the activity that interest groups do when they relate to administrations. We think it's a good initiative, we think it's an initiative that has come to an end with the consent of the entire local world and of most parliamentary groups in this chamber. And that's why they ask for their vote in favour.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.128.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. To fix his position has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.129.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the ratification of the decree law of the Government establishing the Register of Interest Groups of Catalonia, which, as the Councillor has said, aims to solve a problem that, in fact, would render ineffective some of the provisions provided for in the law that this Parliament, in 2014, adopted, the Transparency Act, insofar as that law already created and regulated this register, but provided that its effective implementation was in the hands of the administrations obliged to create it. Well, we must certainly regret that the vast majority of these administrations have failed to comply with this legal obligation, which does not leave the Government very good, and that must be said, because it has not taken the necessary steps during all this time to encourage these registers to be put into operation. However, it is better late than never, and today we have the present decree, which aims to facilitate the purpose of the Transparency Act by replacing these registers of each of the administrations, universities, autonomous entities, etc., by a single register of the Generalitat, created and managed by it, which will serve for all other compulsory administrations. Surely, the design of the Transparency Act was not very successful in forcing the creation of more than two thousand registers and then trying to ensure their interoperability, because in order to try to ensure transparency, a system was chosen that actually increased bureaucracy, and bureaucracy and transparency were incompatible. Two thousand records for the same is the very clear example of administrative duplications that cost money to citizens, that serve nothing, that solve no problems and that on top of that they fail, as recognized by the decree law itself and the councillor itself. Sometimes, from the Junts pel Group Yes, mainly, we are faced with our position on that transparency law, in which we abstained. We were and are for transparency, but we considered that there were much better things in that law. And also, on the other hand, that transparency is not just a matter of having a law and a council that, as you know, we consider to be a council, precisely not transparent. Well, now it seems that from the Government itself it ends up recognizing that, at least in this respect, the law was not very well thought out, because it has had to be changed, of urgency, moreover, just two years after its adoption. As regards the assignment of this decree law to the Parliament of Catalonia, insofar as it cannot interfere with parliamentary autonomy at least it establishes interoperability, mutual recognition and the exchange of information with the register which for these same purposes must be managed by the Parliament for the fulfilment of the obligations imposed by the Rules of Parliament and the Code of Conduct which we have also recently adopted here. Finally, said the above, it is true that what is proposed by the decree certainly comes to provide a solution to this specific deficiency that the law had, recognized by the Government, and therefore we will also vote in favour. But, frankly, if we talk about transparency, there is still the problem that there are non-transparent administrations, such as the Department of Transparency. And by many laws, regulations or decrees laws that we pass, or by many existing Transparency Councils, what citizens really care about is that their representatives are transparent. Unfortunately, with a government that hides information from the opposition, violates its rights, or that has supposed laws kept in a drawer waiting to be presented by surprise and approve itself in a single day, without letting the opposition opinion and without debate, transparency will continue to shine through its absence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.131.0	Thank you, President. Adviser, Members, Members, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will vote in favour of the validation of the decree creating and regulating the Register of Interest Groups. We understand that, in the first place, everything that could be said has been said practically as far as the contents of this decree are concerned. We agree, basically, both in the presentation that the councillor made as with the deputy who preceded us in the use of the word. We thought that this was one of the difficulties, not the only one, but one of the difficulties for the full deployment of the Law of Transparency to Catalonia, and we understand that, in fact, the design of the registers of interest groups in the law made it difficult to do what in reality is more important, that it is easy access, understandable, on the part of citizens, to all the information available respecting the performance of these interest groups: with whom administrations are related, speaking of five themes and, therefore, it is possible to make a full picture of which are the processes of influence of these interest groups in the mechanisms of taking public decisions. It was obvious that two thousand registers did not facilitate it, but more quickly made it difficult for this task that I might want to take on any city and citizen to try to reach out to who each Administration is meeting and what they are talking about. Therefore, the intention made by the decree to create a single register, which is not above to be, because it is true that there is still the possibility that some organizations do so on their own, but it is intended to facilitate this interconnection, this interoperability, therefore, seems to us to be a good intention. And, therefore, it seems to us worthy of our support. And the truth is that what we expect is that in the future it is very easy to access this information, that it is very easy to index it, classify it, that the categories are also clear, so that, let's say, the navigation for this Register of Interest Groups allows you to identify very clearly these public decision processes and who has influenced them. And, therefore, we would also be very attentive to the implementation of this Register of Interest Groups, with the benefit that it is most fully respectful of the skills that derive from the autonomy of local authorities, but at the same time trying to unify criteria, which is a concept that seems to us to be very endorsed. So, like I said, we give it support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.132.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.133.0	Thank you, President. I'm going to go too fast, because I think we're already on time. Just like the rest of the groups, we welcome this initiative. In the same exhibit, in the preamble warns us or warns us of the Greuges Synod itself, right? , the difficulty of completing with these questions. As Deputy Pedret said, the implementation that arises from this decree and this intention to protect a trunk that many times is weak before the pressures..., the local world, many times, not by bad intention, but by structure – many times – has a difficulty attached to keeping each of the actors involved in decision making processes at their place, etc. Very briefly, it's fine. There are interest groups, otherwise known as lobbyists, which are a reality that is not always painful; sometimes the lobby has a pejorative or dangerous tone or note. Public institutions need to talk to society and society is made up of a lot of interests, diverse, legitimate – sometimes not legitimate. Now, I'm going to go on, because the phenomenon of trying to influence what we're doing here or what we're doing with the public bodies or what the organizations that are going to be doing for the general interest... will always be exposed to the intent of twisting, to say it in some way, or, more elegantly, to accommodate the reality of the sovereignty of the public to private interests. Many people will try to help the administrations, the public authorities, to make statements, to understand something concrete, because, go, as they know, so they can help us. I think everyone, more or less, knows what we're talking about: we're people – we're people – who's going to explain to us: "Listen to me, this isn't as bad as you see it; look at this, look at this, look at this. Legitimate, but with a magnifying glass. And that helps us, that we approve of today's help for a people who, among other things, is expert at getting away from everything and every step we can take to maintain control. Well, if the lobby is read, we can lay down the foundation; if the lobby is read, we can lay down the NGOs; if the lobby is read, we can say group of experts. In the field of salvation, these days we see as a lobby with very concrete interests, so he wants to explain to us that sanitation works well or that it should work well. One MEP explained – and I finish –: 95_percent of all the issues that were made in a regulation of fluorinated gas emissions were presented through Euro MPs for the automotive industry. That's the reality. And I think that, the band keeping it under control, among all of us, we should do... [[Funnel veils]] "Yes," he said, "among all of us we should also make strength to explain this phenomenon, which is a very unknown phenomenon. Explaining this phenomenon, probably, is 50_percent of the effectiveness of stopping the few to the people that will never – never, ever – try to buy the wills of those who are here and of those who are in public office. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. Well, as we said, we're holding the plenary session right now, and we're all down at the door, at the front of Parliament. [[Long break. The plenary session shall continue before the entry of the Parliament.]] [[Declaration of the Presidency of the Parliament of Catalonia to support the event with the motto of the commemoration of the International Day of Donations]] [[401-00020/11]] With the motto of the International Day of the Dones, which is commemorated today, I will read the following statement. « Women's movements have historically hindered societies in favour of effective equality of women and men. It is a long, persistent struggle that our country has succeeded in establishing a formal equality. On paper, we have the same rights. Theoretically, we should have the same opportunities to develop our life projects. Tanmateix, it's not like that, we don't have the same opportunities. The real equality is still far away. I have shown, for example, the wage bracket. The study data presented last month for the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families indicate a 26_per_cent difference between women and men. An injustice of the present that conditions the welfare and independence of working women, and that will also affect their future, as it will limit the amount of their pensions. Labour is only one of the many inequalities that exist. In front of these, women's movements continue to work for equality. And from the institutions, it's a job to offer solutions. At the end of last parliamentary term, Parliament unanimously approved the Law of effective equality of women and men, a valuable tool for acting across borders, to fight against discrimination on grounds of sex in all spheres, stages and circumstances of life. It's a tool that needs to be deployed and used, despite the interbanks he's suffered. Because we can't resign ourselves to accepting inequalities. Because I have to persist in defending the rights and freedoms of women. That's why today, March 8, to commemorate the International Day of the Donors, to express our commitment to the unstoppable struggle for the effective equality of women and men, we add to the international sophistication that have called for movement of women from the world. Thank you very much. Palau del Parlament, March 8, 2017. [[Greetings.]] Many thanks to all of you for coming with us. That you had a very good day of the ladies. [[Greetings. Long break. The plenary session continues at the Sessions Hall.]] [[Decree Law 1/2017, of the 14th of February, for which the Register of Interest Groups of Catalonia is created and regulated (continuation)]] [[203-00008/11]] Next comes the words María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.135.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party will validate the Decree-Law presented to us by the Government establishing and regulating the Register of Interest Groups in Catalonia. With this decree we take a step further in the transparency effort, at least in the legislative sphere, which this Parliament started more than two years ago, with the adoption of Law 19/2014 of 29 December. Paradoxically, when the legislative effort is aimed at increasing transparency in public management, ensuring access to information and promoting good governance practices, the executive's effort is focused exactly on the opposite: opacity, secrecy, and the worst that a government can do, proclaiming the four winds that will continue with its political plans against any law, court or authorized agency that can prevent it. For they say: "If the law does not protect us, it is as easy as failing to comply with it and to pass another law according to measure and by emergency means. Opacity and secrecy that do not always work, because there are those who leave the language, like Mr Vidal, who spent months explaining for Catalonia that the Government had registered us, that it acted illegally, that it had lists of adept judges... Very serious if it is true and very serious if it is a lie. Or did no one know what Vidal was talking about? Or did they let him explain lies to keep the staff up? Secretism and opacity, which even want to skip the normal functioning of this Parliament, imposing by a very fair majority a reform of the Rules of Procedure in order to be able to pass, without we hardly having time to read the, the law, say, most important of this legislature, the law that will support a new legality. A law of disconnection, secret, that no one but them knows and that the government does not dare to present in order not to be disqualified, because they know it is unconstitutional, of course. And they say that all this is to convene a binding referendum, which the Constitutional Court has already said is unconstitutional, before the Constitutional Court can annul the law of disconnection. That is, they already know that the law is also unconstitutional. As you can see, a book law fraud. Even the CUP, with quite common sense, has proposed that it does not seem very democratic to pass a law of disconnection and open the process of disconnection before winning a referendum. But there is no problem either: the law of disconnection will be applied in part and conditional on the referendum. Another legal cunning of a government that knows that it is doing everything it can and also what it cannot to jump the law, that is, secretly, from behind Parliament and following, he says, a democratic mandate of a plebiscite that did not win. And this government so cunning, opaque, that it is willing to skip the current legality, inventing another unconstitutional and secret legality, leaving the political responsibility of the invention to the parliamentary group that supports it, that it does not matter to act in law fraud, knowingly, with premeditation, with institutional disloyalty..., this government is the government that today proposes a decree to us to promote transparency, good governance, urgently, irreplaceable, as the preamble says. And as I said, we will support the validation of the decree, but we cannot fail to point out the profound political cynicism of this government. Look, we are for transparency, for ensuring effective access to public information and for good governance, because it helps increase citizens' confidence in their institutions, it helps to prestige them. We agree to create a single register of interest groups common to all public administrations, institutions and bodies in Catalonia that are bound by the Transparency Act. It is a rational, efficient, more secure legal solution, and certainly much cheaper, transparent, effective and easy to implement, than creating two-thousand different registers, forcing some associations, unions or professional colleges to register in perhaps more than a thousand different registers, with different requirements and requirements. And we share the urgency of the decree, because it is truly striking that, after two years of passing the Transparency Act, the monitoring of the bodies and entities concerned has been so unenthusiastic. The preamble to the decree explains this, that practically only the Generalitat has complied, that the legal framework has been breaching two years, that the purpose of the law has been frustrated affecting its foundations, and that the impact on the system of public integrity is very negative. This tells us the decree and fully agree, therefore we welcome the Government's application of common sense in this, although late. Because, as we have said before, the best way to promote transparency is to make rules rational and with common sense, because everything that is not rational, is not realistic, is not fair, is not credible, and is not effective in promoting transparency. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.136.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.137.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Well, we will vote in favour of the validation of the decree. We have nothing to say there, neither of the very content of the decree nor of the rule that emanates, of the law of transparency, all that, therefore, we do want to put on the table that we are a bit critical of the concept of transparency with which, in some way, this decree is vague and, ultimately, with the concept of transparency that we are using in this Parliament, because we think... we would like to work on a concept of transparency more in the Wikileaks style, as if so, right? Or, somehow, the transparency that we care about is that of Snowden, that of Falciani or the one that allows the 15-M move to drive the black target process against Rat and the rest of Bankia's directive, right? That is to say, a basic principle of transparency for the government and of deprivation for the citizen. And this transparency, which must be a tool of citizen control and which must allow, therefore, whenever we have an empowered citizenry, a citizenry that controls the institutions, accompanied by a media power that also accompanies this critical concern, this desire for taxation..., we think that, well, this decree that we validate today, therefore, is fine, but that we are left with so much work – so much work – to do. And from this very much work to do, it remains for us, for example, that the same government of the Generality is pleased with the Law of Transparency and with the obligation to be transparent. In this sense I have to give reason to the Member Mirror because I think it is an affect on the assembly of Members of this chamber. Just to give an example: we asked the Department of Health for documentation on November 2, 2016– November 2, 2016– and we were aware that yesterday, March 7, 2017, our request for documentation by the Department of Health had entered the chamber. Well, like the concept of transparency, it's obvious that it's an authentic shirt up, we're no longer talking about the city council, we're talking about Members exercising their right of access to documentation. Or we can also pose the problem that is already in some way developing with the Girona Council. The Girona Diputation, governed by the Democratic Party of Catalonia and Union, results that systematically denies the documentation petitions that we make from the Popular Unity Candidacy, until the point that the same Commission of Guarantee of Access to Information, the GAIP, has given us the reason in twenty-i-four procedures. But not only that, but on the Girona Committee, with public money, it has brought to the court the decisions taken by the Commission for the Guarantee of Access to Information because it does not want to complete, precisely, with access to information of the Members, in this sense, that they ask to be able to tax contracts, to be able to tax convenient and to be able to tax documentation of the Girona Committee. Therefore, and we could here expand the list of Metropolitan Transports of Barcelona, from all the problems that are precisely being addressed by this Commission for the Guarantee of Access to Information before these advisors who come from the former other branches of the PSC, from the Initiative and from so many other parties that they hold under stratospheric to the TMB company and do not want to complete with the need for transparency of this law that we preach and that, in some way, it seems that it is necessary in the exercise of any public power. So, I think the list is unfinished and that this decree that we have on the table today is a well-intentioned decree, but it is a decree, so I think, that marks the way for us, but I insist that it is a long way to go that we can resort to. And we just want to end up with a second thought and it's asking ourselves, somehow, isn't it? , if with all these measures that we have endowed ourselves with in the matter of transparency law, in the matter of lobbying, in the matter of what it is, a case like that which is being judged today, the Palau case, would have been possible or would not have been possible. Are you saying, have we taken our other measures, guarantees of non-repetition? The instruments that we have generated would have prevented the fact that if Palau's facts had been attempted today, we would have fought, prevented, avoided, through the transparency rules that we have provided ourselves with? Unfortunately, it seems to us that the answer is negative. Despite this Register of Interest Groups, despite the Law of Transparency, if today Millet, Montull and Ferrovial wanted to continue trading with the money of all and everyone could continue to do so. This is the authentic drama and the authentic conclusion in the matter of transparency. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.138.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next is the words of Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Members, Members, well, I will try to censure myself to the subject of what is objecting to this point of the order of the day, that they have approached or supplemented most of the spokesman tret d'un, that I think he wanted to make an Umbral, has come here "to speak of his book, because he did not intend to speak of transparency but he has assumed a role that I understand he does not play, saying that the parliamentary group that costs the Government, that Together for the Yes try to approve things urgently, without publicity, in a dark way, trying to vent a debate on a hypothetical independence of Catalonia in five minutes, right? I don't think that's what this is about. What matters today is to talk about a legislative initiative proposed to us by the Government, which is legitimate, coherent and fair. It is the detection of a problem, the fact that the Law of Transparency which this Parliament was endowed with provided for the creation of a series of registers, precisely in the fields of transparency and the fight against corruption, in order to be able to register all these interest groups, that there had to be a register, in this case which falls within the Government of the Generality, or which was managed by the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, and that there could be others, in this case in all of the institutions, and the largest of them, which are in us and local entities. This, as expressed by the adviser who was carrying it, that there could be up to two thousand different registers in Catalonia..., this, we understand, from the point of view of coherence, coordination, operation and, ultimately, an adequate management of the information was neither coherent nor reasonable. Proof of this is that two primers from two municipalities had not been created these registers. And, therefore, we believe that the obligation of governments is to give response to the needy, the obligation of governments is to make the laws complete, and from this point of view, obviously, from the government, what is intended is the creation of a register depending, in this case, on the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, which is in coordination with that independent register, which is that of Parliament, which has recently entered into operation. And, at the same time, it has to serve as a centralized register and it has to guarantee the operation and, therefore, that a single entry in any of the registers that exist in our country must serve, through this tool that we must equip ourselves with, in order to be able to complete the information, to know with whom each group of interests is gathered and for what reason. From our point of view, in the measure that this gives us transparency, it gives us tools to fight in a more effective way against practical evils, it helps us to simplify and rationalize, it gives us security, it brings a significant cost reduction. Obviously, at a time when I think we need to prioritize spending on those aspects that need to be done more directly for the benefit of the citizens, the fact that we have two-thousand different administrations that can obviate the fact that they have a unique technological tool to give this service and centralize it all into a government-owned tool, funded for this and that they need to respond to the integration of all these information systems so that it is accessible to everyone, we seem to be the most relevant measure. And, therefore, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes the only one we make, logically, like a parliamentary group that costs the Government..., we will vote in favour. And in this case we encourage the Administration of the Generality, because it takes this task to the end in the most effective way we can see the results also in a very urgent way; because I believe that, obviously, this legislative initiative which is promoted by the Government of the Government of Catalonia is precisely designed to ensure that the tools of which it could initially be endowed have not been feasible to address them in the short term and that it would be necessary to give an important impetus by providing us with sufficient technological tools to guarantee these rights of our citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.140.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 1/2017. The vote begins. The Decree Law for which the Register of Interest Groups of Catalonia is created and regulated has been validated by 124 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] In accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules of Procedure, one time the decree has been validated, I ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as draft law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Trade law project, services and wires (debate of totality)]] [[200-00022/11]] Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. The fifth point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the Trade Bill, services and threads. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative is presented on behalf of the Government by the Business and Knowledge Councillor, Mr. Jordi Baiget. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd ask them if you'd like me to leave, as always, quickly and quietly so that I can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.141.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. Give thanks to the representatives of the various trade associations that accompany us today, and also to the Secretary of Enterprise and Competitiveness and the Director General of Trade. I compare today to present before you all the Bill of Commerce, Service and Fire, a Bill of Law that wants to help strengthen a trade-friendly model, that we want to be balanced, sustainable and competitive. The Catalan business model is a good model and its defence is a government priority. Trade is life and vertebra good part of the life of our cities. A trade of proximity and balance between the different formats, which allows a varied offer to the consumer. A model that has made balance and adaptation to change one of its virtues, together with broad institutional consensus and within the sector. With this bill of law which today, on behalf of the Government, I make the presentation in the plenary of Parliament, I want to continue to promote this trade-friendly model: competitive, sustainable and balanced. And that's why, exercising their exclusive trade skills, we present this bill, which confirms, gives legal certainty and also updates legislation in the field of business and services and adapts it to the new needs and challenges of the sector. Thus, the model of trade we have in Catalonia is a model of success both for its contribution to the economy as a whole – assuming around 16_percent of gross domestic product and an occupation of 350,000 people in retail trade, and more than 600,000 in the whole commercial sector and in trade-like services – as well as for the social benefits that were going on. A commercial offer mostly inserted in the urban fabric, which avoids the forced mobility of people, the balance between formats, the free and fair competition between the different operators and the participation of traders in social life, or the benefit also for citizen security, thanks to the fact that we have lots of shops, life and light. Trade is a very dynamic and complex sector; it combines sensitivities and very different realities, already by type of activity, already by type of territory, and it is a sector with a great impact on practically all external factors. And in this sense, at a time of significant and rapid change, I can find a mark that allows the business to trade and serve not only a safer legal space, but also a better adaptation..., and to the change. This is why we have worked with this new law since the government, with two clear aims: to maintain and improve the defining elements of the catal trade model that it has at these times – so we strengthen the model in areas such as clarification and updating of basic concepts, reduction of administrative burdens for businesses, generation of instruments to improve the professionalization of the sector, or better information systems – and, secondly, to facilitate a regulatory framework that allows the sector to adapt quickly, fairly and beneficially to the new realities of consumers and business strategies. In relation to businesses, the rule seeks to adapt to a business structure that has diversified considerably, both in business models and in activities and services. The growing integration between manufacturing and distribution processes, the rise of new sales channels, the internet, new business models or developments in the uses of promotional activities are questions that are diversifying the needs of operators and their customers. Also account has been taken of trends in consumption patterns and major changes in the forms of relationship and purchase. Let me briefly list the reasons for this new law. The Trade Bill, Services and Wires Project regulates commercial activity and operators and agents operating in the commercial field of Catalonia. It's a law aimed at ensuring fair competition and impulse to trade as in phonenic nuclei. The bill aims to respond to the regulatory dispersion of standards governing commercial activity. With this project you want to group..., of this normative dispersion that currently counts with five laws. Also..., the new economic and business initiatives in the field of commercial distribution, and the provision of services that have, in some cases, exceeded the standard mark, exist. Thirdly, it is intended to simplify the regulation and reduce some of the administrative burdens, in order to make the existing standard mark more flexible, so that the trader can determine different aspects relating to the exercise of his activity, such as the period of sale in reductions, until now regulated by law, and, by way of connection, the time of hard to term promotional activities, independently of the causes that motivate them; so far, some of them were subject to administrative intervention. Also the reduction of administrative burdens in favour of the operator, and is even lower the level of administrative intervention to the minimum indispensable. In fourth place, it wants to boost free and fair competition between companies. This law aims to order basic aspects of trade and service provision, so as to avoid distortion situations that would damage the development of the market, such as the sale to loss or payment to suppliers. In five places there are the different sensitivities of the sector and put order to pending themes, such as the coverage of non-sedentary sales, the incorporation of services assimilated to trade or the bases for the development of the names« IDB. Already listing some of the novelties of the law, first of all, it is intended to strengthen the legal security of operators compiling in a text_only three of the four standard blocks that comply with the applicable legislation in the field of trade and fire, concretely the general regulation of domestic trade, commercial timetables and firal activities. This law does not include the regulation of commercial equipment. Secondly, and to the benefit of legal certainty, a clarification task is carried out in the definition of basic concepts used both in this standard project and in those arrangements that can be deployed. We want it to be spoken and everyone interprets the same thing when it comes to certain concepts. Third, there are certain aspects that are intended to facilitate or develop instruments that promote dignity and professionalism in the exercise of commercial activity and the performance of services. The exercise of the activity is expected to require minimal knowledge of the applicable legislation, in accordance with the place occupied by the person to the enterprise or, for what it does to the public, with the use of official languages in Catalonia. The implementation of these minimal knowledge essential for the proper exercise of the activity... as they are driven only by means of incentive measures for the entrepreneur. In fourth place, it creates a hundred that allows you to know the reality of trade and services, as well as the main magnitudes that affect them. In five places, for the first time and with general character for all Catalonia, a basic standard_mark is established that allows commercial establishments dedicated to the sale of food products to have tasting areas with a limit of 33_percent of the total sales area of the establishment. The rules of the game are established for the exercise of complementary activities of certain food trades that are already part of the daily reality of the trade, preventing, therefore, that abusive situations of disloyalty towards other sectors can be produced. If so, the non-sedentary sale in marxant markets, which would fit the rest of the commercial modes, and as it is treated in the body of this standard text, which establishes a regulatory_mark in line with the current Decree 162/2015, of non-sedentary sale in marxant markets. In this place, the regulatory regulation already exists is improved, by means of updating, systematization and clarification of certain concepts. An example of this improvement and update is the classification of promotional activities: for the first time they are classified in activities of extinguishing of existences – which are the reductions, the sale in liquidation, the balances and the sale of surpluses or outlets – and the promotion activities with an incentive purpose, such as the sale with obsequity or the joint offers. New realities will also be incorporated, such as today's Black Friday or the promotion for the establishment's inauguration. It defines the concept of the tool and the requirements established for the sale of surplus; it regulates the sale at loss or the breaking of stocks, among others. In fact, there is a willingness to adapt to the new business practices, and, with the willingness to equip the industry with a more flexible standard framework, they leave to the criteria of the traders aspects such as the setting of the downtime or the time sorted to make promotions, if well the project recommends that the downtimes in the usual, winter and summer times be long-term, in order to ensure the survival of the synergies that it entails and with the willingness to equip the sector with a more flexible standard framework. In the new place, in the title dedicated to the restrictions of commercial activity and to the provision of services, the conditions for the sale of products or the offer of products at home are first retracted. The prohibition to offer and sell products or services through home visits, phone calls or messages is introduced if they have not been previously requested or accepted by their owners or residents. In these cases, you can document this acceptance. On the contrary, the bustles can be realized, whenever private individuals have not manifested their opposition to re'n. Each plot will have to inform about the media in order to oppose following them. A _design feature is the general rule of business hours, which passes to seventy-five hours per week, from diluns to dissabte. The Catalan regulation, today suspended by the Constitutional Court, established a maximum of seventy-two hours of weekly opening. The stores will have to close, as very late, to the gods, and they are fixed closing times in the Assenya holiday days of Catalonia. A_11 feature are those exceptions in business hours. Thus, in municipalities with a population of less than five thousand, commercial establishments with a population of less than one hundred and fifty metres are free of charge, regardless of their commercial activity; in municipalities with a population of more than one hundred and fifty metres, this prerogative is established only for those establishments up to one hundred and fifty metres that have an offer oriented basically to daily food products. Until now, this freedom of time was not automatic, it was only possible when the assembly agreed. In this area, it is concrete and delimits the qualification of tourist municipalities, with the effect of commercial timetables. It recognizes and specifies that it is the municipal administration's responsibility to decide whether to learn the exception, although it meets some of the requirements established for the standard mark. In the matter of wires– and this is a feature_store–, the concept of exposure is deleted and the categories of wires and wires marketed as the ordering object in this environment are maintained. Moreover, the future law expressly reduces the political will to contribute to the efficiency and improvement of the commercial activity from a plan to promote the competitiveness of the urban trade, with the aim of putting at the bottom of the sector the tools that allow the entrepreneur and the sector in general better able to adapt to a dynamic economic environment and to enhance, also, the capacity for growth and, why not? , of internationalization. Special relevance is given to the possibility of creating public-private collaboration entities for the development of strategic plans designed for specified periods in urban areas, concepts in the line of the IDBs; however, their implementation is left to the regulatory deployment. And in fifteen places, there is a title dedicated to craftsmanship, which refers to order and promotion, as well as to the organization of the different types of craft events. Finally, I would like to point out that this is a long-standing law for the sector, and also for this Parliament. We have the will to reach the maximum agreement, and proof of this has been the early meetings that we have held with all parliamentary groups and that we will continue with negotiations with the sector to incorporate, at the discussion stage..., to get a law with as much support as possible. We appreciate the work that has been done by the Directorate-General for Trade to develop this law, and also the work that has been done by all those organizations or entities that, somehow or otherwise, have brought us their suggestions, their concerns, and also their proposals, which have served to draft the new text that we are presenting today. I am sure that the processing of this bill will be enriched with the contributions of all, so as to obtain a law that gives response to the current needs of the sector, and also of the country. And I would also like to thank you, in the last place, but not least, the fact that there are no totalities in this text. It is a clear sign of willingness to debate and improve in parliamentary debate all the text we have submitted and all the text of this bill. Many thanks and, I would say, good work in the parliamentary process that you see us now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.142.0	Thank you, Counselor. Then, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.143.0	Thank you, President. Bon jour, deputats, deputates..., well, today, in the end, we discuss in this chamber the expected Law of Commerce in Catalonia ; many years waiting for the, and today, in the end, what we are going to discuss is a text, in our opinion, disappointing, a cowardly and simple text, a text that is for nothing future, which still does not offer the expected legal security of the trade sector and which therefore continues without reply and without addressing issues that we already have on the table today in the urgent dossier. An outdated text is no longer born. They say that man is the only animal that stumbles twice upon the same stone. For today we are in front of the stone with which we already stumbled in 2014; a stone that, if again stumbled with it, will again send this bill to the Constitutional Court. Knowingly, too. Again looking for food for his victimist discourse; again looking for confrontation instead of solution; again disdaining court sentences and disdaining the legal services of this very Parliament, which up to three reports have prepared the legal services warning of the unconstitutionality of the drafting of this project: one in January 2015, one in June 2016 and the last in December. Again, in the end, Catalonia's trade is again neglected and torpedoed by the Administration. From Ciutadans we believe that the trade deserved, today, a serious response, that the Government gave it a response to the level of the category of the sector. A sector that deserved another response because of what it represents in the Catalan economy, because of the employment it entails for the labour market in Catalonia, because of the influence it has on the daily lives of all Catalans. A sector which is heavily penalized by the economic crisis but which, despite you and your rhythms, knows how to adapt to the new habits of consumption. This preliminary draft leaves behind realities that we already live with today, such as online commerce; a reality that is increasingly present, more frequent and more assumed by consumers themselves. And precisely the particularities and innovations of electronic commerce make it necessary to have a specific rule that regulates it, a regulation already of the twenty-first century, and this rule, without online commerce, is not. This preliminary draft even contradicts the laws of this same government, such as the law of hourly reform. Because, as far as business hours are concerned, we could talk long and wide, but we will reserve the comments and make them available in the form of an amendment to the future presentation. Do you really consider it serious that after months and months, with the 2014 standard schedule items suspended, you bring a copy and stick to this camera? Don't take it seriously, because it isn't. They continue to restrict the hours of commercial establishments, their holidays. Why? On what criteria? What's the point? Do you know the businesses of merchants better than yourselves? Or is it about building another false model of success? Stop imposing restrictive and strange models that do not follow any consensus, that are not endorsed by anyone. They have not agreed with the sector; they have not agreed with other administrations, and that is why they will be suspended again. They even reject Europe's recommendations. And worst of all, you haven't even agreed to it among yourselves. Then it happens that with this criterion we began to make inventions of forced legal exceptions, favoritism for some municipalities when, only by complying with the current regulations, the opportunities would be for all alike. Stop imposing obligations on the small trader, stop putting sticks on the wheels, that you will have to open and close when you feel like it, that you will have to label in the language you feel like it and that you will again suffer legal uncertainty with this new rule. This should not be prohibited, it should be encouraged. Because unconstitutional laws are those that do not protect anyone and harm especially the little ones and leave them clearly at a disadvantage in the face of large companies, because they will be able to defend themselves and will earn resources by accepting state regulations. This preliminary draft also leaves the autonomous behind. Again. Not a gesture, not a specific measure. Do you know, are you aware of how autonomous people who have a commercial establishment reconcile the times? Do you even know if you can reconcile? Do you know the situation of, for example, self - employed traders with dependent minors? Probably not. Some measures have already been adopted in this Parliament and, of course, nothing is happening to the self-employed at the moment. Not even the agreements of the government of 2010, like the one that had to create the Català Consell del Treball Autònom, nothing. This preliminary draft should be an integral law. Don't get wet with future business models, like the IDBs, that you mentioned. He mentions them so they don't say they're not done, but in the end he doesn't say anything. Nor does it come to recognize new formulas that we already see in our streets, such as food trucks, just say who has to give you public space permission and nothing else. This preliminary draft law should be an already clear, stable rule that would give legal certainty in a transparent manner; a rule, ultimately, complete and flexible. Flexible because the trade sector in Catalonia is not homogeneous, as is Catalonia. For all this, precisely for all this, we will allow this bill to proceed. Now yes, prepare to work on the paper. We will do so because, otherwise, if this rule does not change its direction substantially, it will ultimately not count on our support. Today we are going to allow this rule to be dealt with because a trade law was necessary, was and is necessary, but it is not this law of the twenty-first century that the sector needed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.144.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.145.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor; deputies, deputies. I would also like to greet the representative of the business and trade union organizations, associations of traders who are accompanying us today and who I assume are satisfied, somehow, because today comes here this law of trade. A trade law that we can agree on, counselor, that up late, up very late. And up too late because Councilman Felipe Puig was already committed to making this law. But not only up late because there was a compromise in 2013 to present the law to Parliament, but because the situation that trade has experienced in the last few years, we could say from the beginning of the 2008 crisis, it has been very difficult, and that we feel like responding to a law in 2017, almost nine years later, does not seem to us to be a rejection of a government that would have to worry about a sector that occupies many people in Catalonia, that has many businesses and that, moreover, generates an economic dynamic in the barrels, in the very important cities. So, a law that came up late. Miri, I give you some data, counselor, to remember, because it's important that when we talk about a law, and in this case the law of trade, we make it clear what is the role that trade plays in our country, in the economy of our country. Miri, between 2008 and 2011 there were 32,500 job losses, 2,463 commercial premises and 5,800 businesses. Didn't we need an answer before 2017? An answer before we thought it was the most important. But more than I arrive later, or more than I arrive later, to us is a law that does not satisfy us. It doesn't satisfy us because it seems to us that it's a little ambitious, that it's a little brave and that it doesn't raise or even the challenges of the future that trade has after this huge crisis that it's been through. Miri, trade, at these times, in Catalonia occupies 330,000 people, a 10_percent of the occupied population. It's kind of a very important percent. It is a sector that, in addition, contracts or occupies almost 70_percent of women. Today, on the Working Lady's Day, it is important to remember this, because then I will talk about, how it is a sector that mainly occupies women, who occupy women between the fringes of the thirty to forty years and how, surely, it is making many things difficult for him to do, therefore, to his development, for what he does to trade, but especially for what he does to the lives of these people. It is true that it is a sector that has grown a lot for what it does to the occupation and has reduced much the time, but we should also see what type of occupation is generating: precariousness, basically linked to the timing of its contracts and low wages. Therefore, we may not be very happy that we are increasing the work places, because these are elements that we would like to review. So, is that the law we need? Well, we need a law before, we need the law today, but not the one you present to us. We think it's a very better law. That's why we don't present a task to the totality, but if I go ahead, counselor, we want to do a lot of work on the job. I hope you don't want to polish it fast, huh? , to say it in a colloquial way, because there are many things to comment on. Some aspects I'd like to reflect on. You were talking about the Catalan model. It's a law that tries to balance, bring this trade balance that we're talking about. We believe... or we would like to reflect on whether we really have a successful Catalan model. I'm starting to have doubts. Frankly, we have lived in the past few years, let's say, of large outlet centers, expansions of tools, important growths of commercial equipment and a significant loss of the pes of proximity trade to our cities, and we have seen as the centers of cities the proximity trade is losing its role. So, I don't know if we already have this balance that we've kept in the past and, therefore, I think we should think a little bit about it. Then we don't think I'm facing the challenges of the future, because we're not talking about some important things, like online commerce, are we? , the new formats, the new buying habits. We don't think you're talking too much; it's a quote somehow, but we don't get into this. Look, we've lost, I've already said, a lot of work in the past, but they're also creating us in the trade, mostly linked to logistics and transportation. And that's why, obviously, people from their homes, from the sofa, with their tablecloth, buy. And this generates new professional profiles. Professional profiles that, moreover, require much more university training, commercial profiles, idioms, contact network. In other words, the new profiles that are being created in the trade sector have little to do with what we have. But, more than that, it's that those we have to convert, too, because probably the workers we have in the proximity trade have to have other aspects, other elements, that help the customer's loyalty, to the very clear knowledge of their product. Therefore, things are changing in the commercial sector, in that of proximity, in the urban trade, but also in other aspects, such as this online trade, these new forms of purchase, new commercial placards, which do not appear to their law, beyond quoting them. And we think they have a key element, because, if there are any professional profiles, we have jobs to create, man, therefore, that better than a law to talk to us. And above all you, who answered me with a question before about professional training and dual vocational training, so perhaps it would be the time for the government – and more than you have skills – to work together with Education to see what profiles can be fostered from professional training, right? , to attend, therefore, these profiles that are required of such a changing trade. And also as we help traditional trade, urban commerce close to facing this new challenge. I don't know, so we could talk about whether this trade can be a provider of this online trade, because many are placards that don't produce products and, therefore, if they could be. As we improve the training of your workers, why do they differ and give a different value that they cannot donate online trade? How do we help them through their digital plataforms to improve their web product? Many elements that we believe do not appear and that would have to improve the competitiveness of urban trade, of proximity trade, in order to face these challenges. You don't come in either... it's true that it's a law that tries to collect, compile many elements of the commercial sphere, but we also believe that important things are oblivious. This law does not enter, or has not wanted, or has not intended to do so, to discuss in parallel a law of commercial equipment which we believe is somehow expired, or which no longer responds to those objectives which we have set ourselves. Then, by the back door, I mean through the Bill of Measures, they changed the tax on us from large commercial establishments, which we would have liked to be able to debate with you and see if there were any other ways to plant this tax. We have not been able to see, therefore, an important tax that did not pass through this process. A law that we believe will create a certain legal uncertainty and a certain uncertainty in trade, because, as the previous Member said in the paragraph, there are some precepts linked to commercial times that are suspected and that have been declared unconstitutional. I do not say that there is in favour or against, which is what the sector also says: "Ull, if we end up bringing this law to the Constitutional Court, it will generate more uncertainty and insecurity. What's wrong with me, or what's wrong with us when we talk about schedules and when we justify why these times in this law, is that they tell me that we want to preserve the model. We don't think that's worth it. It is to say, that the justification of the timetables is because we want to preserve the model, it seems that it is not just this, it is to say, that it is not just the only argument and, therefore, it would be good if when we talk about the model, as it used to be, we actually face the current situation that trade has in our country. And lastly, in these elements of reflection, I wanted to tell you that we have not seen a great deal of agreement with the sector nor a great deal of agreement with the local world. There must have been some agreement, and obviously there are things that are more in favor and less, but there's no big deal, is there? And he spoke..., and his actors and the different associations – commercial, business, trade union –, and most of them have many doubts and many elements that they would like to improve and change, from this law. So, has work been done? Yeah, sure, but we don't think it generates the illusion that it should generate a law that we've been waiting for so many years. Look, elements that we want to improve and on those that we somehow disagree, and, in addition, in many of these elements, the CTESC has also made an impact. And I would also like to..., or we hope that in the parliamentary process we can respond to the requests made by the CTESC, right? Very quick. Put them down. Lower them, that the sector has a lot of doubts that they should be eliminated. It is true that some elements of the walkers are resolvable, but others are unclear. The CTESC also said so. All the controversy about tasting, so I don't know if we've solved it or we've posed one more problem. We don't understand why we can't regulate zero-kilometre products, why do we... why do we have to leave it to agriculture? Why, from the point of view of trade – and so does CTESC – can't we regulate our proximity products? We don't understand. Also with the touristic municipalities we think it would be good to look at some things. We don't understand why a municipality that does once a year an sporting or cultural event is already a touristic municipality. It seems too fragile to us because a tourist town is only for an sporting or cultural event. There's a key element, and before he commented, with the themes of schedule, holiday days, which has to do with conciliation, which has to do with how we can reconcile – above all women, who are 70_percent of those who are occupied in the world of commerce – when we have these times so wide. We should have... there should have been measures attached to the Law of the equal status of the woman so that we could improve the quality of life of these people. I, lastly, the APEUs. We do not talk about it; yes, it is quoted, but there really is no development of the EPAs. PEUAs must be the great instrument of competitiveness of urban commerce. And it seems to me, therefore, that with this, you have become very brave again. We hope that with the deal we can make a braver law, a more ambitious law, a law that responds more to the challenge that trade has, and that we can listen well to the sector, because we point a little better than they ask us, which, in the end, are the ones who know the situation that they are painting big, small and all. Probably...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.146.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.147.0	... –I'm done –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.148.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.149.0	... we would probably also have to review this great model that, in the end, would lead us to define what we want to be better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.150.0	He's run out of time. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.151.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, Councillor's team, people from the world of commerce you're listening to us, the process of this bill of law can end up having a seemingly comfortable majority, because there are no totalities, as the counsel said. I suppose for a reason, which may seem contradictory, but it is not: no one spoke to me very well, but no one was demanding that he be withdrawn. So, this project, by means of the maximum common divider, can generate a certain consensus, but let's not run into the least common multiple, which is mathematically very different, which is just what we find lacking: the ambition of multiples and not the need for dividers. So, you mean that this possible consensus generates that this is a good project, that solves the problems that trade has raised today? Disadvantagedly, it doesn't seem like that to us either. It is a project with the objective of rearranging the existing legislation, as has been said; of introducing the regulation of some aspects that have not been covered so far, which have also been said – that is to say that here it climbs some chicken eyes that we will have to take into account – and of surfing in the brave sea of state regulation, trying that a large mass does not take it forward. And you need to do all this? So, yeah, maybe, yeah; maybe it's necessary. Now, it doesn't seem to us that this is an essential project. Because we also agree that there are few ambitions and innovative people about the concept of a future trading model. But as we are in the initial phase, we can introduce, therefore, into the debates of the question, all these elements that we find missing and all those that seem excessive, over or over and we will end up making a different text, which we hope we can agree, so we are willing to put ourselves there to work. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, We don't really understand the purpose of working on this law by the way of urgency, as it doesn't seem that the government sees that this is over and wants to leave a sealed text for posterity. Look, there's three main inputs in denial that I'd like to highlight and that I'd be able to settle in the debates we're doing on ponència. The first of these is the reluctant, if not counterproductive, demonstration of an important sector of the municipal world. You know what the Federation of Municipalities says, you know what the Barcelona Assembly said. Of course, some of the requirements have been met, but we don't think it's been resolved enough. In summary, and in order not to go into detail – which do not give me the two minutes of time –, what the local world claims is that this law makes a different interpretation of what is provided by Article 84 of the Statute in relation to the competences of the municipalities. What the State does in this field of local competitions is to define with general character a principle of municipal competence, and, second place, to define these competitions in the mark that determine the laws. Therefore, understand that an ordinary law should not act emptyly to contain this general criterion until it is able to intervene with the precision and detail in the commercial regulation provided for in this project. Therefore, it considers the local world that the focus of the project should be to contemplate with general character the priority intervention and regulation from the local world and the intervention of the Government of Catalonia only in application of the principle of subsidiarity. I think we'll have to find a box here. We'd have to find a better fit than the statements that the priorities in the competitions are already well defined. Another fit we'll have to find? Home, it's in the union world's complaints. The basic complaint, as you can imagine, has to do with the perception of how it can affect labor relations and working conditions, some of the changes that the law makes. It is clear that agreements, where contractually required, or basic labour law should be independent of the regulation that this law makes on hours and opening days of shopping centres. And, therefore, changes in this sense should not affect working conditions or contracting. But it is very innocent to think that this will not influence to improve or worsen working conditions. And the government isn't innocent or it shouldn't be. If the possible hours of opening of the centres are increased, many places will open more hours and many of these places will not be contracted more people; the same people will spend more time. Covering him? So, I don't know; it says. So we don't cheat on the lonely. And, if the downtimes are formally eliminated, many places will eliminate the extra staff contract to cover these days and adjust the schedule according to the staff you have. So let's not cheat on the lonely again. There is a third group of non-conformities, we might say, of the sectors that may feel aggravated by the new regulatory incorporations. I will give just one example, for the time we have, which is that of the regulation that is made about tasting areas in commercial establishments. As it is written, the bill of law that it does is regular for the door behind an aspect of the functioning of public meeting premises. And what makes it possible, if someone wants to do it, is an unfair competition in these places, so that they will not need the completeness of the regulations that these have to offer, often with equivalent services at lower costs. Are we against the fact that there was tasting in the shops? No, no, But tasting the product is not making it, serving it and offering it as if it were a bar or a restaurant. Because if what you want to do is combine the trade in certain products with a restoration service, there's already a way to do it, which is to get the licenses for these two services. And what's the difference? So we have some places that won't have the same technical and adaptation requirements as a restaurant or bar, and we have some workers that we'll pay them on the basis of a deal on much lower terms than they would have if they were in a restaurant. That's to say, we open the door to the pickle because it's turned into disillusioned competition. Therefore, we will have to modify, I understand, some aspects of this regulation in order to avoid this. But let's try to reflect on the model and what we think the project is disapprove of. We believe that this project has an old look at trade, especially retail trade, because it does not take into account the challenges of the future or the role that could develop in the strengthening of the economic and social fabric of our peoples and cities. From the 1990s we have repeatedly announced the disappearance of the Catalan traditional business model, which you have also named today, which in general terms is based on small establishments with little family management. And we usually assign two types of factors as causing this threat to small trade: one, the pressure on opening times and days or the regulation of cuts, which tended to harm this trade sector before other larger operators. And, on the other hand, the structural changes in social uses, such as, for example, the appearance of large surfaces at the time, or the electronic trade now itself, or the franchised trade. However, in many places, despite the obvious loss of traditional establishments in the last two decades, small urban trade persists, and in some cases, it is reinvented. And how can that be? So maybe for a new look at the traditional functions of trade, which are usually two: the appropriate access of products as intermediary or the function of advice and sorting that makes the traditional botiga. These intermediate functions are clearly at a disadvantage in the face of new uses and social customs and in the face of the globalization of information. And in the future, disintermediation will be the general tonics. If we take into account, therefore, only the traditional functions and we are lost. But there are other functions that retail trade plays in our economy and in our local society and in which it would be very worthwhile for us to base ourselves on if we wanted a law that progresses in its time and does not only aim to cover water lives. A serious function of contributing to the local economy facilitating the circulation of income in the municipality. Buying in a small local trade has a substantially higher impact on the local economy than doing it on a large surface or in a franchise or chain trade; this is a serious one. Another would be the function of being a city, of being part of the urban landscape and of generating street and public space activities. What would, therefore, be in our way of seeing, from this perspective, to defend the Catalan model of trade or Mediterranean model of trade, as we say, rather than wanting to impose controls on timetables or commercial formats would relate to a more global, more holistic concept of politics in relation to commercial uses. And to put four examples, if I have time, very brief, that they are not necessarily regulatory concepts and that they are not intended to be exhaustive; but they can and should be public policies that could orient this. For example, policies to promote awareness of the effects of our decisions on where and what we consume. For example, connect local producers and trades to provide proximity products that set up a differentiated offer and contribute to local income circulation. Or, for example, encourage and strengthen business partnerships to carry out joint activities to adapt services to other business models; from payment systems to local currencies, for example, to distribution and after-sales services, or the integration of new formats such as electronic commerce. Or, for example, stimulate alliances between traders' associations, joints and community and citizen associations to carry out activities to boost shopping streets in public space and also in empty spaces. And the final question, then, would be: does this project introduce some of these elements that allow us to think, more than not in a defense of what we already have, in the will to make a leap forward for the people and cities of the future we want? So I think that's the question that's going to get us thinking a lot, answer it and incorporate it, if you like, because we understand that it's not well solved. Let's try, among all of us, to improve this project with a new look, let's look for what's missing, let's clear the stars that have appeared, and maybe we can end up having a law that's not just consent, but a law of the future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.152.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.153.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, deputies, deputies, representatives of the sector, the bill that the Government brings to the chamber comes after having wasted a precious time in regulating in an orderly and coherent way a very important part of the Catalan productive fabric as is trade. Indeed, just over three years ago, in this Chamber, the debate on the regulation of business hours was well founded, which partly affected this important sector of our productive economy. And something, I must say that we have made some progress with this project, but I must also say that time has become dilapidated. I must say that the executive has taken on board, albeit late, the need to liberalise and stop overly shortening free trade, without this logically implying unprotecting and not promoting as the small entrepreneurs, self-employed people and SMEs who really create jobs in our territory deserve. Mr Councillor, the project is still halfway through a real flexibility of the sector; we do not think it is very open-minded. Look, already in report of the Catalan Confederation of Commerce and the Catalan Competition Authority was alerted in 2014 to correct the increase in excessive prices in Catalonia regarding other autonomous communities and the need to increase the number of Sundays and holidays in which establishments can open to their customers. This need, moreover, was also shared by the University of Barcelona in studies carried out on this subject, in order, and we think very logical, to promote a process of liberalization similar to that in other major European capitals, such as London, such as Paris, such as Madrid, which was taking place, and it is logical that this was so, mainly because of the outstanding tourist attraction of these cities, which, like the Ciudad Condal, are sources of job creation and wealth in this area. Something, therefore, I must say that we have advanced, perhaps not enough, because, beyond freedom in the field of the sale campaign, the fact is that the Government of the Generalitat continues to maintain a restrictive attitude in the number of hours that a commercial establishment can open a week – seventy_y_five_hours, for the ninety states–, and limiting to shops of less than one hundred_five_square_metres the opening on Sundays and holidays, for the three hundred_square_metres that the Government of the People's Party established. Another sample of this regulatory restriction in Catalonia with respect to the rest of Spain affects the number of annual holidays in which shops can open: ten here, twelve in the rest of Spain. Our group continues to believe that expanding this number benefits traders and consumers, and we will therefore propose an increase in this number. Look, if consumers and customers do not find open shops, the internet will be responsible for moving the activity to an environment that, in the face of changes in buying habits, can be lethal to our productive fabric. It is therefore already clear to you that our group will be proposing amendments to unify the rules in a more liberalizing sense, because it is in the interests of economic activity and wealth creation. And, moreover, because it is in line with what the European directives provide, which is our regulatory framework, which we should never forget. And that doesn't do it, it doesn't collect it, to a large extent, Mr. Counsellor – we will discuss it in any case in the paper – this bill. We also see here an important contradiction on the part of the executive in not increasing this figure to which I referred. If, as always, it is justified, and you have defended it, saying that it is done in order not to favour large areas to the detriment of small trade, what we then ask you to do is that, through the back door and through amendments to the articulation of budgets in the Act on Measures, do not promote the authorization to install large areas on the basis of very specific demands and at very specific points. That course of action does not seem consistent to us, and, more than that, it may even be arbitrary. And that's happened with the budgets. As I had pointed out earlier, the project assumes the liberalization of rebates in line with the legislation of the Government of Spain, and only « recommends – and I say « recommends in quotes – to shops that may have two periods: one for the winter campaign and the other for the summer one. That recommendation, which is not imposed, is a sign of further deregulation, and we therefore welcome it. We also ask you to take into account the uniqueness of the city of Barcelona as the capital of Catalonia, and, as happens in Madrid, understand that, with greater freedom and less regulation, there will be more trade and more employment. The third additional provision of the draft recognizes the prevailing character of the municipal charter, but harmonizing this law and the provisions that deploy it is an obligation to avoid competing conflicts, which we believe represent a loss of energy, time and resources that no one would like. A novelty that deserves a deeper debate is the regulation for the first time of what is known as tasting spaces in food shops. I will not go into the analysis, because in this case I would like to congratulate Mr Vidal because he has explained it quite well, and therefore I will not reproduce his arguments; I do, in some way, want to summarise it by referring to the need to reconcile interests among all the professionals who are affected in order to guarantee, in principle, free competition on equal terms. That is a basic principle of free trade, of freedom of enterprise, of a truly free market. And, therefore, here, in the phase of discussion of amendments, in the presentation, we must be especially careful when it comes to focusing on it. Finally, I would also like to refer to our disagreement with the requirement to oblige persons who provide services in the shops in Catalonia to attend to them in any of the official languages. An unequivocal sign of freedom is to be able to do so in any of them without any other limitation, and our position, in that sense, will remain invariable because otherwise we would talk about imposition. You have used the word 'encouragement', Mr Councillor, and, frankly, I say to you, that sounds better. In short, the project is necessary and its improvement in the parliamentary procedure is essential in order to adapt legality to the changing reality of commercial activity, reconciling, as it cannot otherwise be, the defence of the singularities that our trade presents with the guarantee, as I say, of freedom of enterprise and as also the unity of the market must be guaranteed. And I say this, Mr Councillor, because indeed your attitude in the presentation of the project has been quite open, I would say that, in a tone, indeed, very cordial and eager to enrich the project. But, of course, when at the beginning of this year the headline of a newspaper – of course, I know you didn't dictate it – came to say that the Generalitat challenges the State again with the new trade law because it approves the bill without correcting elements suspended by the Constitutional, of course, I ask you..., that, I insist, I know that the news doesn't mark you, but the attitude does; the attitude does, because that news does pick up some of your position. And he has reiterated this, which is what I liked least about his intervention in this plenary. The law says you must respect the exclusive competence of the Generalitat in the matter of trade. That's true. But I also say to you, Mr Councillor, that there is a basic legislation that must be respected. Does it also agree with me on this approach or does it not agree with me? Because, if we enter into the dynamics of saying that we only have exclusive competences but that the basic regulations matter to us a curse, if I may express, man, loyalty jumps through the air. And I, sincerely, and beyond the funny things that are done with the resorted and man-made recourse to the dialogue operation..., man, we're going to be more serious: if we don't want constitutional conflicts, we're going to sit down, we're going to dialogue, we're going to reconcile, we're going to compromise, we're going to approach positions, Mr. Counsellor. But, of course, you say in these statements: "Well, we will test cotton with that will for dialogue. I'm holding your hand, Mr. Counsellor; we're going to try not to focus on a constant avenue of remedies before the Constitutional Court, but for that we will have to respect the basic rules. And you don't give evidence in these statements that you want to go around. And I'm also telling you because there's more recent news. Look, you, yesterday, if I am not mistaken, in a newspaper also edited and, finally, sold profusionally in Catalonia, said that just as the State claims the expansion of the customs service, it claims that precisely that is done to be more competitive. Well, I think it's a good point, but do the same with this law, don't you think? Do the same. If we are generally called upon by the State, in this case, to the Government of the nation, flexibility, openness, open-mindedness, the same medicine applies. And, I say to you, it seems to me that you have also been halfway there: you have said yes, that you are going, in some way, to debate, to sit down, to discuss all the amendments that can be tabled, but it gives me the impression that there are points that you are not going to, in some way, be flexible in the negotiation of them. And if that's going to be the general tonic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.154.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.155.0	I'm done, President. If that is going to be the general tone, man, I believe that somehow you will be missing the necessary coherence and transparency, which also, in the legislative process, all the citizens of Catalonia demand. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.157.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, I believe that the intervention that preceded me, that of the People's Party, in a certain way, does him a little favor to the bill, because precisely it is pointing out everything that the traditional trade, the proximity trade sector, saw as a threat, and says: "And we celebrate that this bill went here, this direction, more liberalisation, etc. We agree much more with the rest of the interventions that have preceded us to point to the most critical questions. It would not assign two, priority; they are not the only ones but the priorities that we should be concerned about if we legislate on trade: the working conditions of the sector, and, secondly, to guarantee the future of proximity trade in favour of the vitality of urban nuclei and of all the functions that it fulfils. There would be a third aspect, which are the consumer's rights, but this would correspond more to other areas of legislation, such as the Catalan Consumer Agency. What happens is positive, but we consider that the text presented to us by the Government is either short or in the opposite direction, depending on the aspects to which we refer. It wants to regulate very well the different campaigns and promotional actions in order to avoid the competence of the whole and the corresponding sanctioning regime – and this is one of the most developed parts of the text – but in these two aspects that we have commented on as priorities – the working conditions and the future of the sector – either short or in the opposite direction. About working conditions. So, it has already been said, the law is inconsistent with hourly reform, which is one of the measures that society should have in order to have more quality of life. That the bill of the law asserts that the stores may be open... from seventy-two to seventy-five hours per week, from diluns to dissabte, increasing, therefore, what there was, for it is also resorted to Law 3/14, is not good news. That is to say, being able to open half an hour more every day and being able to open until you give them – this is not new, but it is not correct either – so it does not seem to us to be in line with the hourly reform that went to the reconciliation of people working in the world of trade, in this case, mainly. Just like this opening of the definition of touristic municipalities to be able to accommodate exceptions. It seems to us, therefore, a massive starting point as open as because... Well, I know it well and I know it better still the ponent, I think that on behalf of Juntes for the Yes, and will follow me, that he is mayor of Molins de Rei, we have an event of masses in the year and not for this reason we are a tourist town that we can attach to these exceptions. There are already extended business times over extensive people's work days, gloating this perverse dynamic of more extensive people's days that require the trade to be available so that when you get out of work at a certain time you can access it. And, therefore, it harms the trade sector, both the people who are employed there, the working class working in the trade, like the same traders; this working class that, in a time of precariousness, as has already been pointed out, most likely saw its day extended at zero cost. A note..., a number of the National Institute of Statistics..., we don't have it..., I don't have it in abst català, but the number of unpaid extra hours in the week to the Spanish State is almost 4_million hours. This, therefore, is likely that, if we open more hours, they fall into this category of unpaid overtime. That's what he does to the workers. And for what he does to the owners, so, in many cases, they're owners who don't even have... let's just say, he doesn't give them the deal or to hire someone else, and they're going to charge them to their outer spaces, these hours, and he's not coming out of here anymore, and I'm going to be home at eleven o'clock and he's already here. In this case, it's not the law that makes it short, it just goes in the opposite direction. About the proximity trade and its cohesive function, so some of the features have already been identified, right? : the undoubted positive effects of the commercial plot in the municipalities; the proximity and, therefore, sustainable products; the dynamism and revitalization of the urban plot; social cohesion... Traditional trade helps to set up, therefore, a landscape, and gives quality to our towns and cities, and, moreover, therefore, the staff who tend to replenish or work there is someone who knows the product and therefore adds quality to the act of buying. But, in change, in the last decades, so – it has been pointed out – we have not only witnessed the setback of this close trade. It is not just a phenomenon of strict Catalonia or the Spanish State. We know very well, because this is how the core of the CUP is working in Perpiny, as the desertion of the streets of the center of Perpiny has been a phenomenon that has been accentuated in the last decades, to leave this: disenchanted streets, right? But here too, therefore, we have experienced it in the last few years we have experienced urban centers where the real estate has proliferated, until the real estate crisis, banks and franchises. And no one's been able to stop that. And why is this little trade going backwards and why should the challenges that it should take should lie in this ambition to give strategic answers? Retrieve the small business because it goes back and it blurs the most important thing about this business, which is the clientele, is clear, right? With a situation of widespread precariousness, therefore, low purchasing power. And that's a structural phenomenon, and that's what's left..., it's more punctual, etc. But there are elements of this law that also attack, so this configuration of a clientele for the proximity trade. The times, as I was pointing out so far: if we liberalize times this goes in favor of the model of the great surfaces, that they are the ones who end up taking the cat to the water with this question, as well as the model of eternal downwards that seems to have proposed the bill. And it also obviously moves backwards the proximity trade, not only because of this loss of purchasing power and because the clientele, therefore, is affected, but because of urban policies. Obviously they didn't protect him as a calyx, did they? Since he liberalized his income with the Urban Rents Act of 85 and just over a year ago, the moratorium on trade expired, so, we've already seen: some had to abandon the bass where they were, and what came in? So, this: franchises, etc. We understand that promoting proximity trade will require complex policies, not easy. We end up opting for the opposite model, because here, therefore, we celebrate a lot of proximity trade and associations, etc., and at the end IKEA wants to install Salt and put red captive, and the CUP stands alone defending that this is not the model, and all the mayors of the area, who are from the Democratic Party and Esquerra, for so much from the Group of Joints for the Yes, who has drafted the law, open the doors to IKEA, to Salt. To make policies counter this, to make policies... so, obviously, he demands to break his head much more. It's a lot more complex, isn't it? That's why we don't understand that the law didn't deepen, so, in these pro-neighbouring mechanisms, right? , like the circular economy, for example, how the proximity product is promoted, or how it gives training to professionals or, therefore, awareness campaigns– also pointed out – to consumers. The circular economy, to give an example, I understand that it is one of the government's priorities. He signed an agreement precisely with a merchant association, with Commerce, for the value of fifty_ thousand euros, to promote, therefore, the circular economy. So... and now, when we write a law, there's not a word out of this question. All right, I think it's one of the folds that's got the pose that's going to open up. So, incorporate these favorable mechanisms of proximity trade, traditional trade, which are what we all expect from a trade law, right? So, first of all, and with this I'm done, it seems like a little ambitious law in these aspects, and we think that we have a duty to go a lot further on on the challenge. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.158.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. The words of Mr. Joan Ramon Casals, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.159.0	All right. Thank you, President. Above all, thanks, counselor, for the explanation he made of the law, and also thanks, Secretaries General, Mr. Aregio, and to the Director General, Mrs. Vilalta, also to the president of the association of botiguers, Botiguers Group of Catalonia, and other members of other entities of the world of trade that today accompany us. Today we present a law that is very important to maintain our country model – our country model globally – and also our economic model. Nogensmenys local trade, proximity trade, traditional trade has helped to foster our entrepreneurial spirit and our spirit, indeed, of a fairly balanced economy. This wasn't random, getting here. This has been possible thanks to the work of the various governments of the Generalitat, and also to all the laws that have been made from here, marking a model that does develop what the current legal framework establishes, that is that the Generalitat of Catalonia and this Parliament have exclusive competences and, I repeat, we have exclusive competences in trade, industry and crafts. We have, therefore, a very important repte of still improving all the..., and this you serve to improve this sector. And it's important, they're saying, "Cifres." It represents 16_percent of GDP; it is directly more than 340,000 places of work; indirectly, or if we add other sectors, more than 500,000, and, even so, as I said here, I think it should be highlighted, one day as today, it is precisely the sector that gives more places of work, say, to women: 65_percent of employment in the field, say, of trade is in women. Moreover, if we look at this, and I will comment on this more particularly, at these moments of crisis, our current sector and our trading model has endured much better than that of the rest of the regions of the Spanish State, even of the European Union; and, especially, in the maintenance of work places. And that's important because it means we have a very good model. And I think that what this law does, and that's what I want to start with, is just to help consolidate this, say, model. Because it's true that he has a model that has perils. And unfortunately, some of us felt them a while ago here. I'd like to thank you for trying to reconcile and for everyone's willingness to work, and there's no point in totality. But it is true that there have been aspects that are very different from us and I hope that I can reduce it, or, in any case, we will face each other. Because we heard..., and I'll start with Ciutadans, who said it was a deceptive law. And for me, what I've been disappointed with is seeing that what they want to impose with their speech is a model of liberalisation that we oppose in a very clear way. And yet it is more disappointing that before the law is passed they say that they will bring it to the Constitutional Court, that the Constitutional Court will suspend it. I think that's disappointing. Because, I repeat, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy, which according to you, we say, must be respected, says that we have exclusive competences. Therefore, respect these exclusive skills. Also from Ciutadans I was surprised that just speaking of the hourly reform as a good model for the reconciliation of the autonomes and the workers when, in change, just you propose..., and what you said, that what you want is to liberalize the timetables. Therefore, what you propose and defend – and you defended it a while ago here and your party defends it to the whole of the Spanish State – goes absolutely against what we want as the country, but it goes against just the work reconciliation of the local workers of our country. With regard to the People's Party, it is that I could repeat part of the words I said respect Ciutadan and especially we would oppose... you said that this should be more flexible and more open. You wanted to put the word "liberalize the sector". They won't find us, will they? Because this ends up consolidating a model that has failed: that has failed in Madrid, that has failed everywhere you have imposed it, that has failed the rest of Europe; that has endured the crisis less, and that now all these models that have agreed that they have lost their model of proximity come to look for ours. The whole of the European Union, countries of the European Union, come to copy our model which consolidates this law. Therefore, we do not intend to impose a model that does not work for us. We are very clear that our model works better than others, but we do not have the aspiration to impose it on you or other territories. Let us develop that model that has made our country work. And then they're talking about respecting basic law and that that's why they're using the dialog. I..., the feeling, and, besides, also, with the threat that the Constitutional Court can suspend the law, say so, they will break the will of the dialy. Okay. I think it has already been seen that they have little will if they want to go to the Constitutional Court. It is true that there are aspects, that have been commenting on various parliamentary groups, that we agree that they should be improved. At this point we do agree that there are fears, as is the subject of tasting, which has just been found. Because the message we share; which, for example, has explained, as was well said, Mr. Marc Vidal. That is to say, we want to give the opportunity that the food trades can adapt to the new demands of its customers, and at the same time it does not involve a disloyal competition towards or with the catering sector. We're very clear about that. So, there's a proposal for law, but it's a very good starting point; it's generating a certain amount of consensus, but we have to find it among all this mentality, because it's actually a great opportunity for a new line, say, competitiveness, huh? , and product promotion, which is the end of it, without going into full swings. Theme basses. It was also commented on by the PSC. We agree that we need to have the capacity that in those sectors that surely have to deal with seasonality and where reductions are necessary and which, in the background, are the ones that invented reductions we need to study..., and we make the proposal like Together for the Yes, to study and promote to keep those reductions in those sectors where it may be necessary. Let's study it, and we're lucky to get to that consensus, huh? But it's also true, isn't it? And we have heard the words, that this automatically already wants to suspend us; therefore, we have the ability to find consensus with the sector. I do, however, demand that the sector ask a lot, that you help us find this point in which we are able, if we are able, to keep down in the seasonal sphere in those sectors that really require it; there are others that would not actually heat up or not have to see seasonality with the downs, and, therefore, power, surely do not need to keep them up until now. Also thank the department and the Directorate-General for the better definition of all the concepts of "promotion, "downs; all these points that I actually think definitions will help us very much to define. What else? Respect Mr. Vidal. Yes, he has made me a special one..., say, I would share – share – the final part that makes reference to the model, to which you think it should be the model that should be able to get together in these complex moments, say, attacks by multinationals, attacks by these liberalizing mindsets, from the... – we are still sincere – of attacks that we systematically suffer from this Parliament and this legislation and the Department of Enterprise, respect the model that they make us from the State. Because much of the problem of trade or trade regulation in our country has always been an attempt to impose different regulations and models on the part of the Spanish State, for different governments and different mindsets. And you said: "And you referred to the various aspects to which trade should adapt. It's what we're already doing – it's what we're doing – and it's what we're trying to do and it's what this law deepens; it's just promoting this proximity trade that really helps us to make a much stronger economy at the local level, with all these alliances. It's already done, and this is what she's trying to do; it's the other laws and this one constantly trying to limit our skills that's preventing it. We remember that we have the decree of commercial equipment that has been, sure, until now, the best weapon to protect our business from proximity. Therefore, this, that someone wanted to put it in question, or, in any case, Albert makes reference to there have been some exceptions, we are convinced that precisely the instruments that we, say, represent the Department of Enterprise, have tried to put on the table, is that it has just defended this type of model, and just so much has been criticized, in this respect. Anyway, open your hands, say, with Albert, like he said, didn't he? , we are from the same municipality; a municipality where precisely the model of proximity trade is very important, sure many things we share of the fund, because we have viscudes. And so I'm sure we'll be able to come to terms, not just from an ideological point of view, just because we're talking about the same model of society. Why, in the end, do we remember, why do we have to protect our trade? Because it's protecting our way of being and our country. The local trade, the grocery store, huh? , which we have to say so..., the storehouse that, much as there are ideologies that want to demonize it and that seem to be the pain because it can represent a part of this economic democracy, of this individual ability to pull forward and get out, really represents the best spirit of our country's effort and entrepreneur. And neither do we forget that the same trade also followed what determined how our municipalities are. Our municipalities are more compact, they are socially, say, more cohesive in large part thanks to trade. I always say a phrase that the Jordi Vilaprino says here, which is here, which says to me: "It is that when we turn off the lights of the trades, the lights of the streets, and it is true, that when we turn off the lights of the trades, we turn off the lights of the streets. And, therefore, they also give life to our viles. And also, as has been said, help to boost the local economy, because they are also the ones who, apart from generating the proximity product, also help and come the products to the proximity companies. Therefore, trade does not only help us to make some better societies and generate much more jobs – let us remember that trade is one of the aspects that generates more jobs in our country – but also helps to boost the rest of the economy. Also comment on some of the points that it is also true that there is the law that we will improve – I am sure we will –, that it is the issue of defining better some aspects, as can be the freedom of the establishments..., those that have the most freedom of time, the establishments at less than one hundred and fifty meters_square, which must be held..., which is one of the aspects that we will have to take into account. Just as the definition of touristic municipalities has also been discussed, so it is true that there has been certain, say, a feeling that there may be some opening beyond what would be strictly necessary; also, therefore, willing to do so. And, finally, I am convinced that with all that we have seen in most groups today, with all of the sector we have seen these days and, above all, with the good will of the department on behalf of the Councillor and the Director General, Mrs Montse Vilalta, I am convinced that at the end of this process we will have a very good law to guarantee and improve...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.160.0	Mr. Couples, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.161.0	...the current model of proximity trade in our country. So, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. Since there are no totality exams, the project... Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.163.0	President, for remarks by Mr Casals. Very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.164.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.165.0	Thank you, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I'll wait for you. I'll wait for you, huh? , President. [[Pause.]] Mr. Couples, I'm really sorry..., yes, it's said a lot here, but I have to say it, I'm sorry for the tone, because even the counselor I've seen him more likely to pick up the glove. I offer the hand stretched out and I think the counselor picks it up, and you go and bite me, literally. Because ultimately the only thing we are saying is that, given that we have not tabled an amendment to the whole, you should thank that, and not throw yourself into the cosmo intruding against everyone. I think that does a weak favor, not to the dialogue operation that you, huh? , with curseful forms they use so much, but to the real need for dialogue to carry out those bills...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.166.0	Mr. Santamaría, it's been 30 seconds, and that's not allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.167.0	...and those laws that benefit...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.168.0	...that's doing your speech.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.169.0	...of citizenship. Thank you – thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.170.0	Well, so... Mrs. Vílchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.171.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] ...the president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.172.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.173.0	Yes, to Mr. Couples, just tell him that I don't put words in my mouth that I didn't say, but say'myou, if we make a copy-paste of the articles that are suspected of the 2014 law, what will happen with these articles in this new one, Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.174.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. As there are no totality exams, the project... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Couples, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.175.0	No, for very quick allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.176.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.177.0	No, I'm just saying... the moment we're talking about having this, say, this competition, the law we're going to regulate are exclusive competitions and the feeling on the part of two parliamentary groups is that it's going to be suspended in the Constitutional Court, I don't see the dialect, nor the willpowers, nor really the willpowers that you pull this into place. If we go like this, we'll find ourselves, but if the first one we feel is that it's going to end up suspended by the Constitutional Court... I'm not quite sure if the people who are here, huh? , from the trade sector, who wants..., to raise the blind every day..., to tell them that we will suspend them. Because this one we do because the stores can raise the blind every day and we're at its side and we're better at this possibility. That's why we do it, not because we suspend it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.178.0	As there are no items in totality, the Trade Bill Project, you serve and threads continue its processing. [[The session is suspended at three quarters of midday and two minutes and resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Miquel Lluís Palomares Amat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.179.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Proposition of the law of urgent measures to improve the quality in the provision of services relating to personal autonomy and care to dependent persons (debate of totality)]] [[202-00036/11]] The next item is the debate on the proposal for a law on urgent measures to improve the quality of services relating to personal autonomy and care for dependent persons presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.180.0	Thank you, President. From Citizens, today we defend this proposal of law with the firm will to strengthen the fourth leg of the state of well-being, to apply intensive care to the attention to dependence, which does not go through its best moments, but which is a much needed public service, which honors us as a country, which takes care of all of us when we are most in need of help and care. The aim of this law is to introduce urgent measures with the ultimate aim of achieving the maximum benefit and well-being of dependent persons and their families, improving punctuality and, in general, quality of care for dependency. When the melon of the dependency debate is opened, a crossfire of reproach is opened immediately, over who is responsible for the dismantling of this service, but this law would contribute to an improvement of services through an improvement in management and transparency, and it does not necessarily need budget allocation. So I would ask, in this debate, to put aside the discussions about who has contributed most to the breakdown of the dependency system, and I would ask you to focus on discussing solutions. Today we're going to talk about numbers, measurement parameters, analysis, quality, effectiveness, advertising, transparency, management, but we're actually talking about people. When we talk about waiting lists, the number of years a person has been waiting for is an indicator of their suffering. We have all lived closely what dependence is, because we were born dependent. When we were born, we were given food, we were washed, sheltered, protected and, after years, we returned that love, also, in the form of care, and it is up to us to feed, shelter, care and protect. But we do not always have in our hands the ability to meet all the needs of the people we want the most. We have all lived close experiences, on this topic we rarely talk about hearing. My grandfather, like so many other people, by age and by the worsening of a disease, came a time when the care he received at home was not enough, not even with external help; he needed, among other things, nasogastric feeding, and the type of care he required was not provided in any residence. In the area where we live, the waiting lists in the residences that provided this care were tremendous. My grandfather was lucky to have a family that loved him, but sometimes love is not enough, and when this difficult time comes, many families find that they have to obtain the necessary resources to urgently meet the needs of the loved one. Many families are faced with a spreadsheet to raise funds. We were lucky enough to be able to sell the floor where my grandparents lived in order to finance the care that my grandfather needed to get through in the best way in the last months of his life, but not all families have that luck and try to sell the desperate little land they have in the village, ask for credits, seek to mortgage their homes, and despite all the efforts and all the will they put in, very few manage to gather enough to meet the payment of the care that their family member needs and enter into a limbo, that of eternal waiting. While they are aware that, in this case, love is not enough and that what is needed is care adapted to the needs of the dependent person. According to official data, Catalonia has been the only autonomous community that has increased the waiting list, of all communities in 2016. The waiting list in Catalonia is the second highest in Spain after the Canary Islands, with 42_per_cent of people on the waiting list. It is a terrible thing for those people who are waiting, but it is still something more terrible if we see the pace with which they enter the system, since, with the number of dependents who entered in 2016, the Generalitat would end up serving the more than ninety_ thousand people who are on the waiting list, nothing more and nothing less than 416 years. And this is something that has no face to change, we all know that we are in a context of ageing of the population, which increases aging at the same time as there is a decline in birth, and these people do not have time for the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia to stop blaming themselves and fighting themselves, these people need to take action here and now, however small they may be, to help put a solution to all this. To solve this, of course, a strong commitment is needed to improve funding, but also to improve management. Just a few weeks ago, José Manuel Ramírez, president of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, explained to us that the management that is carried out in some autonomous communities is generating very interesting returns, in employment, for example. There is no other public investment that generates greater economic returns: approximately 40_percent of public expenditure is reinvested again to the State under taxes, social security, the IRPF or corporate tax. Mr. Ramírez warned us that, in 2013, Catalonia was very well situated, it was one of the least dependent communities on the waiting list it had and where more people attended, but from 2014 everything began to crumble, and today Catalonia is the only community that has increased its waiting lists. What do experts tell us? That to solve this disaster we have to overcome five pitfalls. The first, reverse the 2012 cuts, that the People's Party comply with the pact signed with Citizens and increase every year 440_million in the budgets of the State. The eyes of the sector are on us to know whether we are able to execute the investiture agreement, they are also attentive to whether the People's Party complies with its word and with the signed agreement. Let's all put on our side, let's do it for all those who need us. The second stumbling block to save, a financing; we need stable public funding, within the framework of the LOFCA, that is finalist. The third, to attend the waiting list in no more than two years, and here the Generalitat also has to make a strong economic stake. The fourth, not a single royal decree, that all the legislation on dependency is debated in Congress with the participation of all parliamentary groups; dialogue and unity are needed on this issue. And the fifth, transparency in the information system; the Administration has to be transparent not only for the scientific organisations that analyse the data, but also for the citizen. Mr. Ramírez made a simile, which seemed to me to be very correct: "We need data, we cannot keep our eyes closed, we cannot be like the orchestra of the Titanic, walking with celestial music, while people are sinking into dependence. Look, in this 2016 report, the innovation and good practices of the autonomous communities were evaluated, and those that were innovative in management and where there was an improvement for the monitoring system would be especially valued. See? [[The speaker shows an image to the chamber.]] Catalonia is in red, because the observatory was unable to prove the existence of good practices. This report also evaluated real-time information systems and systematized monitoring model. And look. [[the speaker shows an image to the camera]] it was also suspended because there was no such information or follow-up. In 2017, we find that innovation and good practice have not been evaluated this time in the report, but real-time information systems and the systematized monitoring model are being re-evaluated, or what we call transparency. And look. [[the speaker shows an image to the camera]] It's red again, because it doesn't exist. This is precisely what this proposed law is about, to have data and to improve the management, timeliness and quality of the services and services relating to the unit, to provide transparency in the process, because to improve the management of the services provided to a part of the most vulnerable population, it is not necessarily necessary to make a budget disbursement. What does this law contain? A series of parameters whose measurement, publication and subsequent analysis will allow to evaluate the quality and effectiveness of the provision of services, whose proactive and up-to-date advertising is a duty of the Generalitat. This is something the Greuges Synod reiterates in each and every one of its annual reports. We need objective data that we currently lack and that allow us to get an accurate picture of the situation, of the magnitude of the problem. In addition, this law establishes a first legal framework applicable to waiting lists, which gravitates on the principle of transparency in the management of public services and implies the duty to publish existing waiting lists, as well as the criteria for their preparation and, where appropriate, amendment. In addition, it establishes as the legal right of the citizen to know at all times his or her situation on the waiting list, without prejudice to strict compliance with the protection of personal data. That the average waiting times in the assessment of the status of the unit, in the development of individual care programmes, the number of IAPs that are rejected by the concerned parties themselves, the number of applications resolved, the withdrawal of applications by the interested party themselves, the number of appeals against decisions of the public administration during the processing, and the number of complaints and administrative contentious appeals relating to applications be published in an accessible manner for any citizen. And, above all, that the interested party himself knows, without having to go through a bureaucratic jungle, the criteria that have been followed when modifying his place in the waiting list by empowering, for example, the electronic means, that you arrive, for example, by an SMS or by mail or by Whatsapp, any change that has occurred in this waiting list. We have checked in the budgets the millions of dollars that this administration spends on computer services; let's use them to inform the citizen where he is on a waiting list and the reasons for a change. Because the worst thing a person who has a close relative going through the wrong is the uncertainty of waiting and lack of information, which on many occasions ends up leading to a suspicion of arbitrariness of the Administration, even if it does not exist. Without forgetting us, too, that this would facilitate the task of social workers, who are busy in bureaucracy. Let us help them, too, who are the ones who work daily with the human face of suffering. And this leads me to one of the tools contained in this law, a single register is established as a mechanism for coordinating the supply and demand of services related to accompaniment and health care. Go ahead that this law does not seek to modify the structure of the unit's services, but to optimize the agility of the procedures. The autonomous communities that have achieved this have a more diligent management, and in the end it is the citizen who benefits. We present this bill because we believe that it is essential to establish legal evaluation mechanisms to overcome the lack of transparency and service vocation on the part of the Administration in the management and effective implementation of services for dependent persons. For the creation of a legal framework applicable, for example, to existing waiting lists, as well as the criteria for their evaluation and, where appropriate, modification, thus avoiding the bad administrative practices denounced by the Greuges Syndic. In short, to help improve the quality of service provided to one of the most vulnerable sectors of society. The ageing of the population is a reality that we cannot see only as a problem, but as an opportunity, because we have a sector of dependence that is trained and that wants to contribute human capital. Let us give the tools for creating new jobs and for helping to distinguish us as a society. Let us equip ourselves with tools, because it is clear that we have to ask ourselves how to treat our elders and how is the best way to do that. As I said at the beginning of my speech, today we have talked about criteria, parameters, numbers, and as we have ever heard Mr Andrés Rueda, president of Ascad, whom I take advantage to greet, let us remember that behind each number there is a person with face, gestures, smile and pain. A person with names and surnames, and one day, we may be that person. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.181.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, in order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Ms. Anna Figueras has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.182.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies..., a special greeting, too, so, to all those people who are with us today, Mr. Anton and others, let's say, that they are very related to the subject we are talking about today, right? Mrs. De la Calle, today you present us with a proposition of law that we don't know much about what you're trying to do better in caring for dependent people. What they're sure to do, if it's over... let's just say, if it's successful, it's really jamming the dynamics of the Social and Family Affairs Commission. Who contrasted the greater... – forgive me, don't see it – who contrasted the greater, don't you? As you accuse us of wanting to stifle, delay, relax the welfare committee, the Committee on Social Affairs and the Family, it will therefore turn out that you are doing so with this proposal of the law, which relates to better care for dependent people, and which, in reality, based on the literality of the text, is closer to a parliamentary initiative, to a motion for a resolution or a motion, than to a legislative text. Look, do you really think that in order to ask the government to generate records – lists that are, of course, already making a totality debate, a question of law, a question of law, a question in question, a process of appearances, opinion, approval in full? If they pursue effective measures, let's say, with the process they propose, and in the assumed case that they are effective, they are serious, but very dilated in time. You're the same. So look, the first one I'd like to highlight – and I think most of the groups I've talked to, so they'll agree – is that the experience of the text doesn't deserve the parliamentary process you're proposing, right? I'll take a look at the text later, huh? But in advance, I'm telling you, I'm growing up... we think it's a harmless, sterile text that doesn't provide a better measure of service quality to dependent people. It simply urges the government to generate data registers and publish them. Licy? Yes, and so much; but more like, as I said, a motion for a resolution or a motion. Therefore, if the purpose of the law prospers, then, for us, it will be numb, and not us, at this moment. You tell him they have an afany, don't you? , or a failure, therefore, to talk about dependence, but they only have it here. Because you... – as much as it is true that you have pushed, with what you have given us, therefore, with this agreement that you have reached with the PP to make them, let's say, presidents – you have not presented, either in the last legislature or in this, any parliamentary initiative that can actually improve or transform the Law of Dependency; you have not presented any – I have looked at the register and, in any case, it is so. Mirin, if we're approved, for example, if we're approved... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, they've got it here, but they don't have it there. No, no, Don't make any proposals, you guys. Parliamentary initiatives, no. You're coming, anyway, and they're proposing summer agreements. We'll see – we'll see – if they're done... – if they're done. Certainly, a state agreement that all parliamentary groups in Madrid voted less the PP, for example. I don't know, maybe you, that you have an influence, maybe you make them see things another way. But, look, if we have approved, for example, the reform of the Rules that we propose in this Parliament, this would be a very clear case because you are still in one reading. And I'm sure that, aware of the size, let's say, of the legislative text, you, by common sense, will do it. But we're going further. We're talking, more like, a state law, aren't we? The Law of Dependency. You know that, don't you? Obviously, responsibility is exactly where it resides. So why don't you do it there? - Why don't you do it there? Why are they just doing this here? But it is more, Mrs De la Calle, I am sure that you, who so much criticize the Government, therefore, that you do not go to the summits of presidents, will know that the Government of the Generalitat is an active member, at the technical level, of the Labour and Analysis Commission of the Unit Law. We were there, for example, yesterday, weren't we? , and that it is the PP government, in this framework of the commission – certainly, the government to which you support – that has the intention to centralize and refocus all information systems, with a certain change of items that contradict all the items that you are introducing into this proposal of the law. Therefore, I do not know; it counts, to the lords of the People's Party, because perhaps today, let's say, they will enable something that contradicts and contradicts that you want to change from another parliament, from the Congress. You guys are the same. Therefore, if the will is to reform the system of care for dependent people, be brave: they do so there where they correspond, therefore, by pushing certain things, or by working colza with the Government of the Generality in this new law of personal autonomy that you and the sector know is preparing and that, moreover, will be presented in brief. But we're going to examine the text in detail, which I don't know if it's going to give me too much time. Legislative title: "Act on urgent measures to improve the quality of the provision of services relating to personal autonomy and care for dependent persons. And you say, "Yes, yes... Look, these people really want to get better, so that's it, isn't it? , the quality – the quality –, in any case, therefore, of the dependency service. But you're... you're scratching – you're scratching – and it turns out that you find that this isn't so, that you're the only one that they're doing is proposing measures for evaluation, not for the better quality of the service, just to have some listings, surely to do, let's say, a more, that, incisive opposition. Chapter II, for example, talks about measures relating to lists and waiting time. You in this chapter define what waiting time is, but the truth is, the measures that can lengthen the waiting time are not and are not expected, because there really is no such thing. Articles 5 and 6, which are already being finalised, require the publication of the criteria for the preparation of the waiting lists. Those criteria that you propose, but the PP says they have to change into another song. Therefore, they propose the publication of lists of waits, but measures to improve them and reduce them. Let's say there's another stream of cold water when you actually say that all this has to be done, obviously, therefore, respecting the Data Protection Act, but the private providers of the services will be able to have the personal data of the users without the consent of these. I put it – I put it – to the law. If I fly, then... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Go, you wrote it, you'll know better than I did, but I read it. I don't know if this goes into any of the electoral programs and the ideological projects of some people who today will actually make it possible, therefore, the literality of the text, this literality is brought to an end. The more forward he talks about the creation of a medium-time register of hope, but without measure to reduce the medium-time, and finally he asks that everything be published. Therefore, this proposition of law exclusively pursues the assessment of reality, which affects, let us say, in direct attention to people very little, well pocketed. Therefore, the first thing they should do if they succeed today is to change the title of the law, so that it does not count measures for the better of the service; it counts, in any case, measures for the evaluation of the service. Therefore, I think we should be strict in what we do. I look, finally, because I don't want to stretch out more, just an incis: I think that among all of us we should try not to fall into the mistakes of the past for that which makes dependence. To talk, to debate, to improve the attention of people with dependence is necessary, surely; everything is better. But to generate false expectations with a proposal of law with a title's bouncing, meravellos, to end up generating frustration, listen to me, it's not mass..., as far as I'm concerned. Why, do you know what's going on? Which is more than the same: creating expectations to generate frustration. And they already know how it ends. Mirin, despite everything... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes..., in fracas; with the fracas of LAPAD, for example. We didn't give him support; we were the only ones, surely. Despite everything, Mrs. De la Calle... – despite everything, and because you don't get to accuse yourself, and because we are there, in the debate of dependence – we will withdraw the message to the totality. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, man; before I asked, therefore, listen, I give her the goig: we remove it. But I... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Escotin, no, no... no problem. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to me, we don't want to stifle the debate. We're in this room and, listen to me, we'll have it. The government is there, and you know it. The government is, in this follow-up committee that I gave them, and more so, with the new law of personal autonomy. And we are there. But let's move one thing forward: let's say that – in the parliamentary process, so, it is possible – we will make all the experts compare because they really prove that this law generates expenditure, but not finalist for people's attention; that's true. And ultimately, we would prove that this law is harmless and sterile, as I said, in the best of service to dependent people. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.183.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. Then, in order to fix his position, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.184.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Bassa, Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, Greetings also for those who accompany us today in this House. Today, on the other hand, we are discussing or considering the proposal of the law presented by Ciutadans, which they call for in a summary way, so to achieve more transparency for which you have to see with the waiting time of those people who have a right to a benefit derived from the Law of personal autonomy and attention to dependence. The Socialist Parliamentary Group shares, to a great extent, those who are the object of this bill; an object which, moreover, we have already manifested on various occasions. The last one was in the past plenary, when we asked the Lower Councillor what the Government would do after the situation described by the State Observer for the Dependency for which he is doing in Catalonia and which leaves us at the top of the whole state. On other occasions we have also referred to this situation by means of motions for resolutions and motions in this very House. And, therefore, the issue before us today has been widely debated. Mechanisms have been sought to improve the transparency of waiting lists, also voted in this Parliament for all political groups. But before entering into related aspects as and how it is managed or managed the dependence of Catalonia, I wanted to refer to some aspects that appear to the proposed law of Ciutadans. First of all, I'd like to warn you about the wording that, sometimes, it's a little confusing about the proposal. That is to say, in Article 1, for example, he talks to us... – and so I agree with the analysis made by Mrs Figueras –, he talks about the need to introduce a series of urgent but permanent measures, as if it were something contradictory, in order to improve punctuality and in general the quality to the performance of the services related to dependence. And then it's true that I haven't been able to find any article in the joint that I'm talking about the best of punctuality. That is to say, it is about the transparency of waiting times, the creation of our registers, forms of coordination, but it is not about the reduction of terms; something that is of fundamental importance to us. Because the reduction of terms has to see how we do the analysis, how we do the PIAs, at which point the request, the PIA. That's all we have to try to change. Nor is it talked about how we will improve the quality of service, and we understand that the services that are currently provided can be of high quality. Therefore, it is not in how the service is performed that this law proposal focuses on, but in the waiting time until the actual performance of this service is above. For another band, we value the intention of the Ciutadans Group to establish the definition of four different waiting times, but we consider that this visit is perhaps from the point of view of the management, uncertain, but frankly complicated for the city and citizen assembly. A person, when he asks the Law of Dependency, what he wants to know is how long he'll trig after he asks her until he asks her. And here's where the object of this bill has to be focused. The provider is asked – the provider is asked – for services that create a specific waiting list registry for each service. This already exists. I've seen them before. The past, a few weeks ago, for example, in a residence of the great people in Tortosa. The department already has an information system, named "Management of access to residences for large people", which says the number of people who are on the waiting list in each center. Certainly, I don't know if it exists for all the modes of service related to dependence, but, one way or another, the entities that provide the service know what their list of expectations is. Another thing is that this is public, that's not what happens at these times, huh? Therefore, some of the things that are called for in this proposition of law already exist. Ladies and gentlemen, the problem is not the register, but its publication. Besides, I don't think it's safe to load on the schematics of the service provider entities or the publication or maintenance of the records. We, from the PSC, believe that there must be a single register, owned by the Government of the Generality, which allows both service providers and citizens to work, from what they ask until they get it, which is the time to wait and when they find their request. For another band, Article 7.2 refers to another single register which refers to the system of..., not to the system of dependence, but to the public health system, we ask that the availability of the offer is published for each of the health care centres as possible waiting lists at every moment. It's about salvation, it's not about sociosanitaris or it's about third grade. So, it's a little – it's a little – confus, the truth. And finally, for what you have to do with the content of this law proposal, they offer us another public register of transparency to the management of services – so, we already go with three different registers – a new register that, in practice, is little different from the second or the first. In short, we find that the law's proposal could have been better worked. We consider that there is a lack of practical knowledge of how the waiting lists are currently managed, which incorporates more records than it would be, and which does not, in any case, serve to open deadlines. This does not mean that the purpose of the law is positive and that, therefore, our parliamentary group has voted, or voted in favour of the handling of this bill. And I'm glad to know that they're removing the puzzle to totality, surely because they'd lose it – surely because they'd lose it – and they didn't want to stay out of the game. Welcome. Welcome to find in a consensual way a way to make people know at what point their demand for dependence is. We will vote for it among other things because we believe that we can improve it in the parliamentary process. Because we want more transparency on the waiting list, because we want to reduce the waiting time for the city and stop being as an autonomous community at the top of all Spain. We want the managers who know how the waiting lists and service provider entities have been actively involved in this law, to make it effective and to make it useful, and because after trying to do so by motion, by means of a law proposal, with a bill of law, we may perhaps be able to put a stop to the repeated shortcomings with regard to this issue. I mean, passing a law in this Parliament isn't a guarantee of success, is it? It can be passed a law, but it can not be given economically and it can not be done the rule, and therefore, it is almost as if we are not doing anything, and, therefore, what happens, what Mrs. Figueras said, that we extend the terms, because this is eternal, right? In the same way that it could be done in one reading, we could also deal with it as a matter of urgency, if we all agree, if we consider it an important issue. Maybe you didn't think of that. But, look, on 30 June, we approved a motion tabled by the Socialist Group in this Parliament, with the following points: "First. Review and establish within the government's competencies in the own six-months – new this – « a more agile and transparent system for the administrative processing of dependent shippers, which allows anyone who has a right to a performance to know the term in which it will begin to recover it. The government didn't do it. « Second point. Establish a calendar for the occupancy of public and concerted places of residence and day centre that is currently aimed at reducing waiting lists. The government didn't do it. « To publish in the terms of three_months– in new –, « by means of the website of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, the waiting time previewed to access the places of residence and day center, broken down by each of the centers of the territory to which they belong. I, in the same way, publish quarterly data on revaluations of individual care programs, so many review requests, requests for grade change, etc. The government didn't do it. And, in case this example is not enough to prove that the Government does not do what this Parliament asks, I can put many other examples of commitments that the Government does not fulfil. For example, a very graphic one. Ràdio Sabadell, disembarkation of the past year: « The Residence of the South has started from the assumptions of the Generalitat according to Esquerra Republicana. Two_months later: « The Residence of the South, without a match in the assumptions of the Generalitat of 2017. This is this government's commitment to this issue. And it will be thanks, precisely, to the speech presented for the Socialist Group and to the gathering of other parliamentary groups in the presuppositional discussion that the presupposition will have to incorporate a party for this residence. By the way, speaking of incompliments, Mrs. Figueras, don't tell us here, another time, don't pass us the Catalan Law of Dependence. It's from the time of Mrs. Munté; it's that it's very old, now. Let's see if it's true that at once, once and for all, we have this discussion here, because of incomplete promises, so we already have a few. That is why, when some Member raised, you yourself, that this could happen as a motion for a resolution, as a Member, it has been shown enough that, since neither the motions nor the motions for a resolution are taken into account, perhaps with the law, you – and you have already demonstrated it with your withdrawal from the slogan to the whole – that you stand to do your homework and work a little with what you have to see with fears of dependence. Because, before the situation of dependence in Catalonia, in which a person dies every hour that passes without regard to his or her dependence service..., that we are the second autonomous community with a greater percentage of people unsettled after Canàries, that the expenditure per inhabitant in this area is lower than the state average, that the system of dependence is paralyzed from the year 2012, that at the current rate caldrian 416 years to attend to all the people who are in a situation of dependence, that more than a thousand people are in a list of expectations, the alternative to this situation by the group that gives recollection to the Government could not be a threat to totality. We will be working from the PSC to try to improve what we think is necessary for the people of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.185.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. [[Greetings.]] Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.186.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. I can't avoid, well, I don't want to avoid, the truth, that I have my own writer's soul in this hemisphere and above all – above all – reader's. And, therefore, I want to begin by reading them a poem by the poet Miquel Martí i Pol. Says this: « Don't ask for much: / to be able to speak without ruining the sight, / to walk without crosses, / to make love without having to ask permissions, / to write in a paper without sticks. / Well, if it looks like mass: / write without having to rip the veil, / walk without sticks, / talk without having to ask permissions, / make love without crosses. / Well, if it looks like mass: making love without having to rip the veil, / writing without crosses, / walking without having to ask permissions, / being able to speak without pautes. / Well, if it looks like mass... It does not seem to us that Miquel Martí and Pol were asking for this poem, which is from his book Twenty-I-Seven poems in three stages, which he wrote in 1972 after he had been diagnosed with degenerative neuromuscular malalty that lasted..., which would accompany him to death. It was a multiple sclerosis that weakened him, in fact, left him without mobility at the end, and with great speech difficulties. It is a book of poems, therefore, written from the consciousness that would become a being dependent on others, but this is the same consciousness that we can all have, because perhaps for reasons different from those of the poet, but all are, at some point in our old age, dependent. For this reason neither seems to me the Proposition of Law of urgent measures to improve the quality in the services to dependent persons presented for Ciutadans. I will not go in here to evaluate the aspects of the law, as some of my fellow Members have done, but it is true that when it is passed, that now we see that it is probably going to be done, it will be time to be able to do better. In fact, better than what we do in most of the motions or proposals of law that are presented in this Plea. The situation in which dependent persons are found in Catalonia, especially those with an economic vulnerability, is extremely difficult. Today, to the Commission of Social Affairs and Families, we were able to hear Mr Ramírez, president of the State Association of Directors and Managers of Social Services, who came to present the conclusions of the report on dependence prepared for this association, an association that Mr Ramírez defined as altruistic, independent, with social sensitivity and defender of the public system. Although the report referred to the whole of Spain, he put a lot of emphasis on explaining to us what the situation in Catalonia was, and he did it from official data, official figures. I know it's hard, because one of the things I'm going to say has already been said to you by the street deputy, because she must have been impressed, too, as I was, when I heard the things that Mr Ramírez explained, because she gave some data that we might never have had and that really impressed a lot. Mr. Ramírez – I only do a few brushstrokes – said things like these: "In Catalonia, every hour that an addict passes without having rejected the performance or the service to which he has right; "at the rate that we are going today – that is what the street deputy has already said – "it will take them long... – we hope that it will be rectified at some point – "it will take 416 years to attend to the dependent people in Catalonia; "the list of hope in Catalonia is the highest in all the State after Canaries; "54_percent of dependent people are greater than eighty years and all have – all have –" or a physical disability, or psychic, or sensory disability, or more than one. We know that the Government of the State has a huge responsibility in which it is passing; we know that it has autonomous communities that are offended, that is to say, it has Catalonia offered; we know that it does not pay; we know that it has repealed the Law of Dependence in a covert way; we know that it has not pityed either the dependent persons or the caregivers, the majority of whom... – I mean, it is not the first time that we gave it, but I want to leave it today, especially today, that it is March 8th, that the majority of caregivers are women, and that they have a desperate situation and that, moreover, after having devoted many hours and much effort to their dependent relatives, these women after they do not even have a thought to which they can come back. And, therefore, after working a lot, they're poor. If the responsibility of the Government of the State cannot be ignored, it cannot be ignored that the Government of the Generality does nothing to reverse, as far as possible, this situation; on the other hand, it sometimes applies measures that are regressive, especially for middle classes. Des de Catalunya Yes, that's Pot consider that if we don't approach a tax change, we won't have a sustainable Catalan system. We can't generate expectations and frustration, one thing behind the other, we can do some things to improve the situation for dependent people, and tax reform is one. In the first place, Catalonia does not take into account the assets to access the health system, education or pensions, which are three of the pillars of the welfare system. In change, to access what should be the fourth system of the welfare state, the system of dependence, it does count the assets. That's unfair, and that's why we've asked you to suppress yourself. We have also called for the elimination of the tops for the wrongdoers. Limits may be established on the income, but cannot be established on the price of the service. Just doing these things could do a lot, a lot for dependent people. We insist, the economic conditioning imposed by the Government of the State is terrible, but the non-application of fiscal measures by the Government of the Generality makes the situation of dependent persons in Catalonia worse. For all these reasons, we are in favour of dealing with this law that you have presented..., this proposal for the law that the Ciutadans Group has presented. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.187.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.188.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... and the public to accompany us, welcome. Well, before I show what the position of the People's Party is before this law proposal that today is presented to us by the street deputy, so I'd like to make a little bit of an introductional history respect a law that the People's Party, it's true, had to change, or, better said, we were forced to change it just to get to the government, because as it was planted, it was totally unsustainable. In fact, he never had an economic memory that accompanied him. And I say it, but I also say it, the same way, the unions, the associations and the agents involved, the agents in the sector. When the Congress of Deputies approved the expected law of dependence a decade ago, the rule had to become the backbone of the welfare state. It was about deploying resources to normalize daily life and ensure autonomy for large people and those with some malaise or disability. Threatened by good principles for the economic crisis, it is obvious that the law has advanced – it has advanced, it is obvious. It's also obvious that he did it a little bit. It is still true that the resources to finance it do not yet cover the needs of all those who seek to benefit; it is absolutely true. The spokesman for Social Services and Equality of the UGT of Catalonia, Enriqueta Durán, regretted a few months ago that the sense of the Law of Dependency has been perverted, and has been relegated to major economic aid. "It was about putting resources and infrastructure, public infrastructure, to give response to the needs of dependent people, but the current experience is not this and we are disappointed," Durán said. « The first mistake – he insisted – « was to approve a law that never had an economic memory that accompanied it. « There was a lack of funding and political will, said the union spokesman. Part of the measures have been implemented, but they have arrived late and partially. And when the People's Party joined the Spanish government in 2012, it paralyzed some aspects of the deployment, but it was the order that had to be ordered, there was no more remodeling. And it's true, it's true that we did. In view of the situation, measures had to be taken to improve management. And look, I, in front of all the attacks that the People's Party has on this amendment that has been made to the law, want to give them a series of objective data before entering the proposal, right? The Court of Auditors in its report, published on May 2013, on the management of the law between the 1st generation of 2007 and the 31st of September 2010– the People's Party was not there– issued a worrying X-ray of the situation that revealed a col·lapsate system, complex and unequal in which there was a lack of information and with a high number of irregularities with the consequent economic cost. The differences in the management of autonomous communities had put at risk both the right of citizens to the promotion of their personal autonomy and the universality of the system under conditions of equality reflected in the text of the law. The communities incomplete, and long, the maximum six-month term set by law for the recognition of the right to a performance. The exceptional nature of economic services had become a majority, contrary to the law's experience. The court warned that, should this trend continue, dependence could become a subsidy system. There are a number of deficiencies caused by the lack of homogeneity of the information systems used for autonomous communities. There was information without updating, different people recognized as beneficiaries, duplicates, delays in the communication of information, etcetera, facts that directly impact on the financing of autonomy. The Imserso did not pay the total amount of the debt contracted with Social Security for the shares of non-professional caregivers, which generated a debt that came to exceed 1,000_million euros. To this situation that I have described to them must add that the Socialist Party, the Socialist Government reduced by 234_million euros the financing of dependence in 2011. And so far here, I finish the introduction, and I enter into the bill that Ciutadans presents to us today. Okay. In Catalonia, we know, there are many people, thousands of people who are receiving services and services related to dependence. But we also know that waiting lists are a constant, especially in the case of grade III addicts, the hardest. We share – the share – the objective of this proposal of law, which is to improve the quality of services to personal autonomy and care for people in a situation of dependence; quality that, above all, has to see with punctuality, with better terms of service because, precisely, we can only improve at the time of providing services. And, in this sense, we don't know whether due to poor management, a lack of professionals who can attend petitions or, simply, because this is not a priority, the processes go on and hurt people who suffer from some type of disability and their family members hard. Let's talk about valuations. Taking into account the latest data from the same consultancy on 31 December, at these times there are more than fifteen thousand requests to value a total of 41,490 petitions that were made last year. And, as for valuation reviews, we have more than thirty thousand petitions in progress. The truth is that the data is evidence that the government is more zealous at the time of these requests. Therefore, we agree with Citizens that mechanisms must be put in place to ensure maximum celerity to meet all and each of the requests, whether for no requests or for renewal. We all know concrete cases of people who are painting the setbacks, and the last I've ever met, right? : a family that made the petition to review March 2016 and was given time for the 2nd generation, right? More than nine months have passed to attend to a petition for review. What does that mean? What does that mean? What do you suppose is new months waiting without being able to do so? So, I don't know. I think we need to put our hair on, don't we? At the expense of those people, at the expense of those families, of the thousands of people affected, and I think we need a reform; a reform at the state level yes, but also at the level of Catalonia. Another important issue that is discussed in this law, in this proposal, and I believe that here is one of the objectives you are pursuing, that is to achieve transparency in management. We see it in different points, in different articles, don't we? « Periodically advertise the criteria to be applied to make the preparation and modification of the waiting lists. In Article 7 it speaks of 'establishing a system of coordination and improvement of the differences in the public offer for which it refers to these services. But ultimately, the star articles of this law are those that refer to the creation of a public register of transparency so as to manage the services in the best possible way and, above all, that the patients can know in which state is found of the process. Since the People's Party we will make our contributions during its processing so as to improve the current text, because it is true that, as they present it to us, so it could be more of a motion than of a motion for a resolution. We understand you might have made more of a proposal, don't you? But, I think, said that, it'll be hot, right? make contributions on the part of all political groups, but above all of the agents involved, right? That this is a job for everyone, and if everyone knows how to polish it, then we can improve our dependence here in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.189.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.190.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, to the saying in advance that our voting position in relation to this bill's proposal, in principle, had to be forbearance. And as soon as possible, because many things have already been said, I will try to explain to you why this voting position. Look, we agree with some of the criticisms that have already been made, we also consider that the text that you are presenting gave as much for a motion for a resolution in committee, or, in any case, for a young man, but it remains small, so to speak, for what it makes logically the mark of a bill's proposal. Therefore, this could already be for itself a motive for our position, but I also want to enter a little into the content, which, from our point of view, has quite a few inconsistencies or fables, and also awakens some doubts, some questions. I will not be much less systematic or complete because in previous interventions there have already been enough of the inconsistencies or fables of his proposal. But, just to make a few more or to overtook some that have already been said, for example, we have the feeling that you, for what you do to a theme, to a very important topic such as the clauses that set the requirements of the concertation, do not bring anything else meaning or nothing that brings a change or a better in this aspect, which, in change, is very important in relation to all that is the provision of services related to dependence. For what it does on the topic of waiting lists, it should be borne in mind that, theoretically, when a man occupies a place, it is because, in principle, there has been an authorization of the correspondent territorial services of the Generalitat, which is where the waiting lists are, say, where the waiting lists should be. And, therefore, we believe that we need to take this reality more into account in order to improve the transparency of these waiting lists. Even though, after... – and on this, which also seems very important to me, you also do not touch on it, at least in a very obvious way – but then, as I say, private lenders can sometimes negotiate the suitability of candidates who will eventually occupy places in their services, which adds an element, from our point of view, of distortion on which it would heat, also, affect, right? For what it does on the issue of transparency, it is also important to take into account all the problems related to the interaction of candidates between the provider entities, which can also distort or generate dysfunctions throughout the process of follow-up, traceability and transparency for what it does on the topic of waiting lists, criteria for assigning seats, etc., and we think it would be better to put more focus on this issue, perhaps, than you do. I have already said that I do not want to be systematic or complete, others have already made other questions about which I have not yet repeated myself. Only, in any case, yes, to emphasize that perhaps a question that seems interesting to us of his proposal is, indeed, the obligatoryness that you raise that the Government, that the Generality, give to know how many people are in every moment on the waiting list. Well, I guess they do lock him up, don't they? Okay. Anyway, I want to take the opportunity to tell you what our political position is with regard to this issue. What we want, what we are pursuing is to be able to have a proper legislative framework, a specific legislative framework on dependence, on attention to dependence, on personal autonomy and on the independent life of dependent people who are free from the current legislative framework of the Spanish State and who allow us to develop a model that is suitable for us in the face of the most advanced countries on this issue or, as a minimum, in proportion to what our GDP is. And, therefore, for us... – and this is also the second reason for which we will abstain – it seems to us to be such an important issue, that of dependence, that we do not want to avoid any parliamentary debate on this issue. Frankly, it seems more important to us, transcending and raising the mark of discussion that will be produced when the government presents the bill of personal autonomy. It will seem to us that it will certainly be a very substantial debate, but we do not want to eliminate the opportunity for debate and discussion on this issue that may possibly involve other proposals such as yours. I insist on this: as we are an occasion and an opportunity for us to make our proposals, we can certainly at these times have important differences and contributions to make, both in relation to what the Government will do in its time as you put forward in its proposal of law. What's the mark? In a context, as has already been said, of insufficiency, failure, we could say, of the crisis of the system of care for dependence, of the structural crisis of the system of care for dependence, of the aggravation of the previous period of crisis, and not so much reversed, we are still far from reversing the situation, therefore, that the crisis has produced and that it is so hard to affect these people and their families. We have a huge gap between what would be the experiment and the object of the law and what is the real application. This is absolutely true: a huge list of hopes and an overload on the people affected by dependence and, above all, in the face of their families that generate a great state of discomfort in our families, in many of the families that are affected by this situation, that each time they are more and more aware of the progress of our people's life expectancy. This is therefore an important structural problem. This is done by adding the deficiencies in the provision of the service and in the quality of the service that derives from the concertation in private centres for the purpose of work, which cause such a obvious thing that one hundred_percent of the resources that should be allocated to the adequate provision of the persons affected and the support of their families, therefore, goes to the work of entrepreneurs who negotiate with this need, which, I insist, reverses in an evil service to these people and in a conditions of work every time more precarious for people working in the sector. What we would like and what we would like to propose, in these sets of debates that are likely to take place, is a public, universal, quality system, for everyone who guarantees a support to dependence at first instance at home, avoiding or strengthening as much as possible institutionalization; if this is not possible, the next step in institutions of types of walkers, part-time, and only at the end, and if it is essential, in a situation of permanent residence. A system that was accompanied by sufficient support for families so that the person with a high level of personal autonomy and self-reliance, but also families and caregivers also enjoyed the highest level of personal autonomy and self-reliance despite having a person dependent on his family, and, bearing in mind, as has already been said, that this task of cures, which should be done equally between men and women, at these times is largely done for women, who see neither socially nor economically recognize this task of cures. And this has to be a central, I think, objective of our debates. Finally, also make an element of the issue of freedom of choice of center, etcetera, or of appeals, that accompanies the debate on the concertation. For us, the fundamental is to guarantee freedom in order to live in dignity, despite the fact that a man has a situation of dependence, with dignity, with equity, with quality and equality, and that, despite dependence, everyone has freedom from an autonomous life and an independent life. We think that this can only be guaranteed with a public service, universal, equal and that generates equity and equal opportunities for all people in this situation. That is why, despite the fact that we do not have much confidence, we say, in the course of this proposal we can have, because we find that it is a little thick... but, despite that, we do not want to put aside debates in this Parliament on such important issues. Therefore, we hope to be able to make these contributions and others in this bill if it is finally dealt with, as, and above all, in the draft law of personal autonomy that the Government will usually present to us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.191.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. As the issue of totality has been withdrawn, the Proposition of the Law of Urgent Measures to improve the quality in the provision of services related to personal autonomy and care to people in a situation of dependency continues its processing. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending the Law of the State 52/2007, of 26 December, for which it is recognized and extended right and measures are established in favour of those who suffered persecution or rape during the Civil War and the dictatorship]] [[270-00002/11]] The next item is the debate and vote on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposed law amending the Law of the State 52/2007, of 26 December, for which the rights are recognized and extended and measures established in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. In accordance with Rule 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, he has the word to present the Commission's work, Mr Ferran Pedret, who is a mad rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.192.0	Thank you, President. Members, deputies, correspondent, as announced by the President of the Parliament, present to the chamber the work of the ponència in relation to the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposition of Law Amendment Law 52/2007 of 26 December, for which it is recognized and widened rights and establish measures in favor of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship. It is a proposition that, in a very brief way, what they claim is to open the door to the recognition of the right to the rescue of all persons who were affected by a series of decrees of the Franco authorities during the Civil War that consisted in confiscating the currency and fiduciary signs issued by the Government of the Republic, especially the emesos later on July 18, but they also ignored those who were denied to use emesos before that date. In addition, they have drawn from the papers presented – there were three papers presented in this proposal – and the question of the decrees issued by the Republican General to open the security boxes that were in the banks and boxes in the republican territory, in the territories administered by the Generality has also been introduced. But I would like to point out that, in the wording contained in this proposal, it is a matter of studying the possibility of bailing out those confiscations that are fessin' out of the law, that is to say, beyond what the Republican General's decrees had allowed to do. This is what this proposal summarises; it is therefore a proposal for partial amendment of Law 52/2007. And what I would like to do is to thank very much for the task and predisposition to the dialogue and to the agreement of the rest of the Members and Members who have been put on this agenda: Mr. Albert Batalla, Mrs. Irene Rigau, Mrs. Carmen de Rivera, Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, Mr. Fernando Sánchez and Mr. Mirea Boya. And he also wanted to make a special point of the diligence and solvency of the reader who accompanied us to the length of the work of the pomència, which has certainly been brief, because of this predisposition to the agreement that he was commenting on, that it is Mr. Miquel Lluís Palomares, who, moreover, has fully understood the will of the joint pomència to expedite to the maximum the terms of this proposal that we present today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.193.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Lorena Roldán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.194.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, first of all, I want to thank my colleague Carmen de Rivera, who has been working on this issue for months, but who was in a bad mood today, and that is why she has not been able to defend the issue. I would also like to thank the members of the French Government's Association of Damages for Incarceration from here. Thank you so much for your tireless struggle; the struggle of many families to achieve the recognition of rights that they lost many years ago and that they never recovered again; a struggle, in short, to do justice. The Historical Memory Act involved the implementation of many restorative measures, measures that sought to honor all those who suffered the horrors of the saddest and darkest period of our history; those who lost their freedom; those who were imprisoned, deported, interned in concentration camps; those who, like you, saw their property confiscated, their money, and of course those who lost their lives, honoring them and their families. However, and despite naming it in its explanatory statement, the Historical Memory Act forgot to recognize the right to be compensated for those persons who were forced to hand over the Republican money they held in their possession to the Banco de España, a money that was never returned to them. The days after the occupation, the new authorities forced citizens to hand over the Republican currency paper while also prohibiting its circulation. The exchange consisted in depositing this paper coin, those notes that so far served, in the branch of the Banco de España, and in return they were given a security deposit; a security deposit that to this day has not yet been used for their money to be returned to them. Today the Parliament of Catalonia will approve to raise to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies a proposal of law to modify precisely the Law of historical memory and to protect all those people and all those families affected by the confiscation of the paper money and other deposits by the Francoist authorities and that they could never again have their money back. This proposal for a law, therefore, means recognition of an unjust act and also means and implies political and moral reparation, and, where necessary, the consequent reparation, also of an economic nature. Because no one disputes that the money seized was valid and therefore issued by the legitimate Government of the Republic. The decrees of the French Government regulated the operation as a banknote exchange, even the Extraordinary Banknote Exchange Court was constituted. However, the second phase of this operation, that is, the exchange itself, the return of this money, never occurred and its legitimate owners never saw this money back. Trade unions have been compensated for seizures; political parties have also been compensated for seizures, and it is high time that this compensation also reaches families and people, and that this injustice is not perpetuated in time. As the Vice-President of the Association of Harmful Persons for the Incarceration of the French Government, Laura Cervera, said, in the Commission on Historical Memory that took place in this same chamber, they did not come to plead or ask for anything that did not correspond to them, but they came to repair an injustice that had been committed and where the years passed without their rights being restored. Well, today the Parliament takes a small step in this direction – small, because, as you know, it is the Congress that will have to take into consideration and approve, if appropriate, the amendment of this Historical Memory Law to incorporate this demand – but also a great step because it is a step that will be taken unanimously and without cracks between all the groups in this chamber, and I believe we must be very satisfied. As Confucius said, evil is not in having faults, but in not trying to amend them. And that's what we, from Citizens, want to happen here today. Mrs Cervera also said in this committee, that it would be a great satisfaction for all of us to see how some of the people who had personally handed over this money could be charged before they died, as they are obviously of old age. Well, I can assure you, because that is what I know, and that is what my colleague Carmen de Rivera has also told me, that the presentation has kept these words very much in mind and has produced the report at a record time, bearing in mind, therefore, that parliamentary times are often longer. Because, look, surely we will never be able to repair as it deserves the horror and atrocities of the Civil War and the Franco dictatorship; a dictatorship that, of course, we condemn just as we condemn any totalitarian regime that uses fear, coercion or violence to impose a certain ideology. And that is why the public authorities must and must solve legitimate demands such as those proposed today by this amendment of the law, which we hope will soon become reality. I would therefore like to thank the Socialist Group for proposing this proposal and also the amendments made by the Group of the European People's Party; to thank the compromise attitude throughout the presentation; and to announce, of course, that we will be voting in favour, as it could not be otherwise. Today these families begin a new chapter that we hope will be the final chapter and above all happy for the achievement of this just and honourable objective; a new chapter in a struggle of almost eighty years, whose final decision will be taken in Madrid, will be taken by the Congress of Deputies, in the Courts, but I am sure that just as here the political parties will know how to live up to the circumstances and will take into account this proposal, which will not cease to be, I insist, an act of justice, a legitimate demand. Make it clear that they have all the support of the people of Catalonia, represented by the parliamentarians who are here today. Before concluding, I would like to thank the fellow Members of Parliament, members of the paper, on behalf of Mrs De Rivera – who has sent it to me – and Mrs Rigau, Mr Pedret and Mr Sánchez, as well as the lawyers and linguists who have advised us in the preparation of this report that we are voting for today, for this compromise attitude that I was commenting on. And I would like to end by making one final reflection on this issue. I think we should emphasize that when all the parliamentary forces work together, when we put aside maximalist positions, when we can park our differences and we are able to fix ourselves in what unites us, as, for example, happened in the Transition, we are able to agree, and above all we are able to solve unjust situations like the one we bring here today, and we are able to grow and move forward as a society. Let us all work in that spirit and value what unites us, because I am convinced that it is far more than what separates us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.195.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.196.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members..., I also greet – now yes – the various people who accompany us from the public and who, in reality, are the material authors of the parliamentary initiative, because they are the Association of Harms and Harms for the Confiscations of the French Government, who have been for many years pushing their claim, and are very happy and very happy, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, to be able to see today how it is given this first step that we expect to culminate successfully in the months to come. Mirin, it has already been explained, and explains the preamble also, which were the legal mechanisms through which the Francois authorities confiscated these fiduciary signs, this paper coin issued for the Republic: of one band, the emesos before July 18, 36, which, in the case of those who did not want to bechand, were placed in a certain fund of paper currency rejected, and, of the other, the emesos from July 18, 36 for the legitimate government of the Republic, which remained, in certain circumstances, in a fund of paper currency confiscated from the enemy, in terminology, obviously, of the French authorities and of the time. And there is a risk of addressing this issue by focusing only on a question, which is quite certain, that it is the question that these measures have affected sufficiently across-the-board people who could or could not share the ideals of the Republic because there was simply, let us say, an automatism that respects this action. But it is not politically neutral, nor much less, obviously, than the Franco authorities did. In the first place, the mechanism was designed as a part of an economic war that is also waged against the Republic – it is very interesting, in this sense, to read the studies of the various historians and historians who have, let us say, deepened in the importance, in the relevancy, often ignored of the economic war that was waged against the currency of the Republic. And, therefore, it was part of this economic war, partly as the recuperation of funds, but partly as the punishment, as the repression already anticipated in each area that the Francoist army conquered, leading to the problems of the regime. Why was it necessary to arrive before the Francoist authorities accompanied or accompanied by someone who was affected by the regime and recognized for this regime as such, in order to get the emissary tickets before July 18, 36? Like a person close to a friend. And that, obviously, was not available to everyone and everyone at a time like we're talking about, in the middle of the Civil War or in the immediate postwar period. On the other hand, we also have to bear in mind that the people who handed over the paper money, the fiduciary signs, emanating after July 18, 36, and were obliged to do so by these Francoist decrees, did so under the threat, under the coercion of being considered, if not so, as smugglers and, therefore, with pens, let us say, very tall, very severe, at a time like what we are talking about. And, besides, we must also take into account the context of the war and the post-war period, in the sense that the families who were deprived of their stables and who, moreover, were politically significant – that they know and know that this was something that was relatively easy to pass, even if the political or trade union significance was, let us say, very tangential – these people are affected in two ways, because they did not only confiscate their stables and have few or no opportunities to recover them, but, moreover, they are affected by the enormous hardships of the post-war period, they are affected by the condition of being red, eh? , and therefore because of the difficulties that this had from the point of view of the black lists at the time of looking for a job and from many other points of view that it is not now time to make a list of them but that they are sufficiently known to all. Therefore, let's say, the complete dispositions of this double, triple purpose. And I think it is important that the question of the recognition of the right be addressed to the rescue of persons who had been confiscated through these mechanisms, through these decrees of the French authorities. As already stated, at the time there was a political agreement to rescue both the parties and the unions, which at the time suffered the confiscations of property and other assets by the Franco government. And also, from the beginning of democracy and culminating with Law 52/2007, there is a series of compensations in various forms to people who have suffered from one or other type of repression or persecution on the part of the French authorities. But in any case, until now, the possibility of rescuing the individuals who had suffered from these confiscations had been contemplated. And we, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, are very aware that there are difficulties, that it would be absurd to ignore, to establish the concrete mechanism for the rescue and to come to terms with what may be the total importance that this may entail for the public archives. But we believe that it was absolutely necessary to open the door to the recognition of the right and to facilitate through regulation, which is what is proposed with this text, the possibility that it is negotiated and sought an agreement on what procedures, procedures, documentation to provide, which facilitates the persons who suffered from these confiscations or, obviously, taking into account the time when we find ourselves, also their rights, may be compensated for some kind of confiscation that they suffered. I have commented earlier on my role as rapporteur, but in the course of the work on the question some points have been introduced, for some reason, and it was still some self-explanatory of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, because in the initial text, perhaps a little sluggish, we did a..., go, the literality that made it possible to recognize the right and leave it practically everything to define the regulation; and this does not correspond to the case law that requires the law to be a little more explicit at the time of, at least, giving some essential elements that can then be developed for the regulation. And we have inserted it in the text that is presented today. And, on the other hand, a statement from the People's Parliamentary Group was also introduced that, in one way, I think, cautiously introduced a question that had been raised by one of the expert persons who appeared in the process of appearances from this legislative process, that said that there was a series of Republican Generality decrees that allowed the boxes to be opened to be re-enacted – that in itself there was not a problem and that the PP was not involved – but that, more than those Republican Generality decrees allowed, there had been confiscations, let us say, by groups that actually carried out, that went beyond those decrees. And, therefore, an additional provision is introduced that what it does is require that the Government of the State, in collaboration with the Government of the Government of Catalonia, study the possible formulas for rescuing these girl confiscations outside of Republican legality. And sign this because I think it's important that there's no balance between what the authorities of the Republic did and what the Franco authorities did; on the contrary. What is called for is the rescue of all those people who can believe that they have suffered the confiscations arising out of the decrees of the Franco authorities, and, in change, what it does to the decrees of the Republican Generality is to ask that they consider how it might be possible to rescue those who were confiscated, beyond what the Republican Generality had planned to finance the war effort. And, therefore, it seems to us that this is a modest step, but an important step, of course, for so many families who saw how in the immediate post-war period their situation was much more precarious than what they would have been if they could have kept their stables. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.197.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, has the word Mr. Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.198.0	Thank you, President. I want to state at the beginning of my intervention that the Franco plaques will be pulled with our hands, if I may. [[some applause]] ; that we do it up a ladder or colly if they let us push it, but that there can be no democratic institution in Catalonia that is denied the application of the Law of Historical Memory, and that before fascism, Lleida or Tortosa, there can be no condescension. Well, obviously, I want to thank the Socialist Parliamentary Group and the Pedret company for this parliamentary initiative, because he knows well that in 2007 the Law of Historical Memory left important things to the tinter. And, therefore, it is a positive concept to think that we are not in trouble, that the rescue of those who suffered the persecution of the French dictatorship has not ended and that, therefore, we have work to do, as we constantly remember our conscience, that they are those memorialist entities that, day and day, also continue to work to recover the historical memory. Therefore, I would also like to thank the presence here in the Parliament of the confiscations and confiscations for the Francoism that accompany us today. And it's obvious that we left a few things in the tinter: we left the corners of our dead in the tinter, we left the Franco courts in the tinter, we left the ministers who signed the death penalty and the torturers in the tinter, and we also left the war boot in the tinter. Because, in short, what we are talking about today is that the Franco authorities were doing with the wealth of private people who had to leave their land in order not to suffer death, persecution or torture, and that today many fortunes have also been made by these four hundred Catalan families, we must remember that they started with the Francois and that today they are rich and rich because they stole the Catalans and Catalans that in their time, I repeat, they had to leave their land. And that's what we always have to remember, to know each and every one of us sees, and so we'll know each and every one of us goes. Therefore, it is an important issue for us. Obviously, we fully agree that these three concepts that appear in the proposal that we are proposing here are absolutely fair; that the currency paper and the other fiduciary signs, both the rejected change bits, as the money paper fund placed in circulation by the enemy – this of the enemy makes it very clear that this was a war boot – as the boxes of banks and boxes of estalvi, are aspects that must be rescued, in some cases clearly, in others, as Congressman Pedret very well says, they must be studied in order to find the attached formula. Therefore, we will vote in favour because these aspects can be incorporated and because in full 20th century, after eighty years of the beginning of the Civil War, some of these open wounds – who should have said so? - We'll start to lock them up. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.199.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.200.0	Thank you very much, President. During her intervention, the deputy of Ciutadans quoted Confuci in relation to the memoir. I would like to start with a very interesting Nietzsche book, which is about the benefits and dangers of history for life. It is a passionate book that begins with a disconcerting reflection; the German philosopher describes the shepherding beast and contemplates with envy his happiness: « Those animals – he says – « do not know the sad or the melange, because they do not see the slopes of the past or the future, because they live ahistorically, bound only at the present time. The thesis is provocative, and establishes, the philosophy, a relationship between happiness and the ability to live the present, the present moment, as a purpose in itself, regardless of past and future, tasting every moment. Create the present, create every moment, forgetting what we saw yesterday and also forgetting what we can be tomorrow. But Nietzsche immediately recognizes that this is not possible, that human beings cannot live historically, that they cannot take away memory and past. Because memory isn't a piece of accessories, it's an addition and a nuclear capacity and a constitutive of our reality and personality. There is not full human consciousness without memory. There was no memory of freedom or personal experience. There's a very close connection between memory and identity. When we ask a person: "Explain'mqui you, if we have a little time normally we begin to explain their story. This is why people and communities have the right to remember and express their memories. Memory is a very intimate reality, located in the core of personality, often with consciousness. That's why I came to me, thinking this, that there's a certain relationship between the freedom of conscience and the freedom of memory. They cannot dictate their memory to anyone, nor can they prohibit their expression. Another thing is how we organize the institutional memory, which must be characteristic because it is not just propaganda, which relationship it has to have with history. But this is another debate. Today's debate is another one. The people who accompany us to the gallery, and who greet us, are bearers of painful experiences and memories that still exist, and we must express our utmost respect, our reverence and our sympathy, and we must give them tools to close some wounds that are still open. That's what we're going to approve of today, and we're happy to do it. We have voted in favour of recognizing a better repair to a collection of people who suffered from the war and the dictatorship. War is the mother of injustices, war is the parachute of prepotency, and today we recognize the prepotency with which the dictatorship acted, and many times, and usually the Franco dictatorship; also, delivering monetary certificates that afterward never worked, and left many families hanging. But today we also escape the prepotence with which some elements acted under the emperor of republican legality, in requisitioning and confiscating the properties of thousands of Catalan families who never saw them again when they had either taken them or the compensations promised. I will then develop a little more facts, but I would first like to make clear the position of our parliamentary group on the subject of historical revisionism. In the first place, we are not supporters of the constant historical review. These past forty years have been the best of our history, despite their shadows, which there has been. And we managed to do that by looking together into the future and not focusing on the battles of the past. Among other things, because the past is a sea without banks. Why are we putting up the file? Are we now reopening the investigation of police and trade union violence in Barcelona at the beginning of the 20th century? Are we reopening the war trial there was against the Catalans who rose up against the French oppressor, against the French tropes in the 19th century, at the beginning of the 19th century? I mean, what's the limit? Secondly, we reaffirm our adherence to the hope and project of the Transition, which also includes an ample will of amnesty; the amnesty that demanded the left then and which affects the barbarities of some but also the shadows of others, do not forget it. But amnesty doesn't mean oblivion, and I want to emphasize it, because maybe it's true that sometimes we've forgotten about it. Criminal amnesty does not mean indifference before the victims, does not close the doors to sincere reparation or should not close them. We don't want to throw the dead at each other's heads, but we do want to be closer to those who still mourn their dead. And at this point we can still move forward, we can still go deeper. And that's why we vote for this law, which we also thank Socialist MEP Pedret for presenting it, as always, without so many skirmishes but with enough work, and his willingness to compromise too. Sometimes here a few speeches like the State never made a repair. It is the strategy of contempt and criminalization against the State, the strategy of the constant microodium. But reality is coughing. We find decrees and repair laws and restitution for the years 78, 80, 82, 84, 98, 2005, 2007. There are many aspects that have been dealt with: from the military to the civil service, to the republicans, to the orphans, to the Francos, to the victims of the last years of Franco repression, from 66, etc.; many reparations have been made. The same People's Party approved the return of confiscated assets to the parties and unions, year 98. And today, precisely, in this line, we go a step further; at the proposal of the Socialist Party, we open the door to go a step further: to many Catalan families, as explained – and today we have them here – the Franco authorities ordered them to hand over their money and gave them some safeguards, some certificates, then return these money in the future, money that they never returned. It is logical that today we ask that he return to what he promises, in addition, as before other Members, a duere of justice. And I'm grateful. We also opened more doors today. I said one day in this Parliament that, of course, when we begin to open the doors of the past, the past has many, of doors, and of surprises. With the surprise that a historian was found four or five years ago when he found in the Court of Justice of Catalonia all the unspeakable documentation of what had been confiscated from the caskets of estalvi and the Catalan banks by decrees of the Generality, as explained by the same Tarradellas in his memoirs. Attention, because these people, these two thousand families, were also given counter-values and payments of what they had, and never did; neither the Government of the Republic nor the Government of Franco did, after that, consider that this was a problem of the Republic and that he did not come up with problems. The money, the joys, the gold were used to finance the war, and others also went to foreigner, via Pirineus, and with unknown destination. Certainly, as Congressman Pedret explained, there is an asymmetry here, there is an asymmetry in the court, and we already want to do it, this asymmetry, because the historical responsibilities are also asymmetric, but..., and, therefore, it is linked, at this time or at this stage, to illegal actions, reparation, as explained very well. But we think it's also interesting that these debates about the table are being put on the table, and we sincerely thank the group for its generosity in seeing things from a general perspective. Ladies and gentlemen, the understanding of our group is clear: we are moving towards better repair and, above all, more intensive recognition. And I agree with the hope of the Transition, which is a spirit of reconciliation and amnesty, but it doesn't have to be a spirit of amnesia. Therefore, we do so with a spirit of reconciliation memory. Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.201.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.202.0	Thank you, President. This parliamentary group did not actively participate in this debate, which was then modified by the Law of Historical Memory; we have already announced this first intervention in plenary, just a few months ago, when it was asked to proceed with the Congress of Deputies. It's a word they say, and we'll quote some of them when they're done. In the first place, in a law of historical memory, that this year 2007, there was an opportunity to incorporate eth rescabalement of the rights of individuals affected by confiscation by part of this fascist regime of estaves. And at the present time eth Madeish left prepaying, didn't he? , eth PSOE-PSC, do not do this, and do not know why not; she was also the "star of th Govèrn Zapatero, because she did not manage to include the alert that it is, therefore, intended to modify. A lot of people are asking. I don't know if we're still against it, but we're just wondering why you didn't do it at a time when you and Govèrn were the majority in Spain. Second of all, I'm sure that some political parties and other organizations have recovered right-hand alert; I don't want to say that all of them. For example, it was CNT who had never received a justice treaty. The Republican Left of Catalonia did not recover everything; it was paperwork that I had to be unable to recover everything that I still confiscated. Why are we talking about a theme in the first place, what is very good to talk about a topic, which is necessary, because we did not have autism? Since Daurim was about to modify it was a law of historical memory in Spain, we could talk about many other causes. And, uh, Nuet's companion didn't mention any more than you were. And why don't we just do everything I want to ask for all the associations of retaliatory peth franchises? And there are many themes; we might have a long list. Or, for example, we are talking about certain properties that e Govèrn actuari does not return to tath pòble. An example, eth Pazo de Meiras. Eth Pácio de Meiras aurie to become ath pòble, and eth Govèrn deth PP, it was last week, refused. Of other themes that did not manage a law of historical memory: all ethos of common threads, it was psychological tension and it is programs of supreme to all retaliatory and retaliatory families. James in acute country mos auem planted auer en compde era santé mental des victimes. And this he asketh that I should give this table, and we also dared to approach it, even though it is not for: who are the victims? It's victims and clairvoyant who they are, happens that this country still hasn't been brave to recognize'c. And we did not participate because of the shame that we produced that is the Government of the State never asked forgiveness of these victims. For he has approved many decrees, but forgive me, I have not understood it. James and agus were willing to give it to the commons, to dig up the dead that are on the roads. We didn't participate because we denounced it so much it was shame that it was still the law of amnesty, or the law of the final point that he had assassins like Martín Villa, torturers like Billy the Child, who quietly camped on the road; or the law that you prevented it from being Argentinean judge Servini investigates them and judges them over the murders that they committed at one time. And we did not participate because indeed it was true that from Madrid it was not with any intention to rent ladies and fascist shrines that I am the Valley of the Fallen, not to make the families the rest of the Republicans who are buried here. And we didn't participate because, after watching for years of silence, a TV3 program, Trinxers, that I can rematch so many consciousnesses all and day an excessive treatment of the surface of the armed conflict in front of the Jew..., it is unthinkable that a program will pass through Spanish public television. And tell him that I will ask that so many causes that we put on our side do not count them in this modification. So he participated, because we are aware of his bureaucratic labyrinth that he is preparing for it now. And we think it's a good way to fool the victims, because now she's in a hurry to get with all the preps that are coming to Congress of Deputies, and find out when it's going to happen. By the way, it was the majority of the good guys who'd want to process it. And we'll see if he's making any money. Because, of course, to make oneself at a time of crisis, of detail, and to recognize that you are madeishi founders of this party, that you are the breadwinners of the victims that we would like to have in the Law of historical memory..., well, it seems to me quite incredible that it will be through this modification of the law, because I recognize that they will bread. You don't know if they will or they won't. And we didn't participate in shame for no application of her historical memory in many points. And this is not only the cause of this right, of likeness to fascism. Think of Lheida. And you think shamelessly of Lheida, of a mayor who refuses to change ethos of chariots in Lheida than of Francos. And it wasn't CUP, who are Francois, who said that car commissions created for the country, where and the representation of all are political parties and where and to experienced historians. Why didn't Mr. Angel Ros bring them? We don't know if it's because of this pact that I'm ashamed of being a father, but we're sure that when I did say grab this ladder and a tornado, Reventós and Pallach would be remorseful. Nosati grab it, eth volaviz. In the past, acting from the directors of this Cry for Lheida this CUP a paeria passereroen was late quietly with a treguent tornovitz eth fascism of Lheida's chariots, a joint governed by the Socialist Party. And he did not dream in Lhéida; we were also ashamed of Tortosa's monumental shame, that I was in my own way Jewish; that it was incomplicable with a resolution voted and approved in August Parliament; that, as an example of the Companions of Lhéida, we had to set up a command, on two ships, a tornado, and bring it to us madeishi on our hands. And they do not rule out – they do not rule out – because it is good enough to approve causes in Parliament and not to respect one another; it is good for initiatives that are not honest at all. When you have a mayor who won't withdraw you're not fascists from the wagons, how can you pre-pause that modification of the historical memory law? Nosati, we're surprised enough. And he said again, "Invite not all the inhabitants of Lheida, but all the inhabitants of Catalonia, to grab one of them, to grab that ladder and begin to draw fascist plates from the carts." And, if you will, on March 18th, dissipate, these are now late, and at this event in Lheida country where you are all guests. And I am pleased that you are 135 deputies and anessen returned to hand and told ath Mr. Ros that he is in favor of having eth fascism of Lheida's chariots. [[Some applause.]] All of this – all of this – and all of this – did not take part in it, we voted in favour, as it could not be of this kind; it could not be of that kind because it was necessary to prepare for the recognition, it was an extension of rights and the restoration of measures in favour of all those who suffered persecution and it was rape during the Civil War and it was a dictatorship and a duty, we cannot oppose, and we are at the expense of all victims and associations of victims and family members. We wish that the call was still fast, in the Congress of Deputies, as fast as it is possible that they may be left alive from that dark age that followed was Civil War and it is the first years of the dictatorship that they can recover themselves and see how they cover them. We would like to end by inviting you to vote affirmatively on the pre-pause of the law that you will see in the coming months, that I was null and void of the summary judgments. And I knew that it was unanimous that we had auram for august prepause, not auram, not auram at present. Denouncing victims, denouncing victims, denouncing patience, not and not political interest, not legalistic excuses. Damb eth fascism... no oblivion or forgiveness. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.203.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Next, the words of Mr. David Bonvehí, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.204.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. First of all, a greeting to the families, to the relatives, therefore, of the injured in this cause, and to those who, these days, have been in contact, these months, and who I believe that after all the course of the whole process of the law, therefore, a certain degree of satisfaction we have to keep between all folds; I am conscious– and now in my intervention I will try to explain to you – that what we are doing here is, yes, congratulations, in a certain way, or to please, in a certain way, all this proposal that Mr Pedret has led. But also today what we are doing here I understand that it is a degree of demand of the proper steps, a degree of demand that passes above all through the Congress of Deputies, and that it is no longer worth an apology because, therefore, the majorities in the Congress of Deputies are what they are and now it would not be understood that all the effort, all the illusion and all the gains and all the justice that we have here approve, this is not going to come to fruition. Also, a thank you to all those families who are also following another way to claim this bailout of these damages; all those people, therefore, who have also come to justice – to ordinary justice, to international justice – because it seems that they can also achieve recognition. We are not debating that way here, we are debating, therefore, changing the law, because this is actually faster, but we also want to do it because there are other families... – I don't know if there are any here in the public – but there are also other families who have chosen the ordinary way to claim these claims. And, as I said, therefore, an intervention that I will attempt to do in a schematic way, because it seems to me that Mr. Pedret has exposed very well what we have discussed today; but also, along with this happiness for his initiative, also, as I said, a degree of exigency, because I believe that among all of us we have to put it. The Juntes per el Si Parliamentary Group will support this proposal, as we said in the initial approval, but also, therefore, convinced that this is the position that the different parties, the different movements that now conform to Juntes per el Si, have claimed for years, and that the Congress of Deputies, is for some things, is for some other things, so it has never approved, and I will remember. The proposal submitted by Esquerra Republicana on July 2005 called for this and rejected it. The proposal of law presented, in this case, for the United Left – but now also, those who are here, most represented by the companies of Catalonia Yes that is Pot –, therefore, also presented it, the year 2008, and the Congress also rejected it. On July 28, 2008 it was the Parliamentary Convergence and Union Group that presented it, and neither did it. And, from there, the last one in 2009-2010, other proposals not of law, which also did not have luck. Therefore, now, taking into account these precedents, I understand, or we want to hear it and we want to demand, therefore, that this time, when this proposal for you arrives at the Congress of Deputies, it finally approves. Because, as I said, so now there are the majorities that in this legislative chamber here in Parliament represent the groups that are also represented at the Congress of Deputies, and here, as I say, there is no excuse, and it should be approved. I am also pleased today to see that this Parliament continues to compromise with historical memory. With the country – and I think there have always been major parliaments in this Parliament – we have always tried to believe in historical memory. And it is not that we always want to counter what this Parliament has done with what the Congress of Deputies does, but it is clear that, as the United Nations report says about forced disappearances, or other reports that have been made at the international level, memory policies in Catalonia have been more advanced and have always been, therefore, better and have always been more just than those made by the Government of the State until now at the Congress of Deputies until now. And, therefore, I add to what marks us the Statute of Autonomy, but also to what has traditionally characterized this country, the historical memory today is once again at the centre of the debate and is again recognizing, therefore, that Catalonia believes in it and has the will, therefore, to practice it. And, lastly, I'd like to, too, make it clear that in the process of questioning this proposal for her got better. And, therefore, here to give thanks to all the speakers and, a little more, therefore, to the rapporteur, because it seems to us, therefore, that the two..., the wording and the two themes incorporated therein, therefore, improve the text. One, in concrete terms, which details that, in the regulation, therefore, which should be developed by the Government of the State, must be made clear, in this regulation, therefore, which aspects are concrete. And then, therefore, this additional ninth provision, which would be added to the Law of Historical Memory, which says that the Government of the State, in collaboration with the Government of the Generality, must study and enable measures to rescue the assets allocated to the banks and deposit boxes that were confiscated during the Civil War. This second better..., it is certain that it had not been detected until a few years ago that there was this case, but, as I say, for the compromise of this country and for the compromise of this Parliament, let us reopen another window and go further than ever, therefore, in the claim, once more, of the historical memory. That said, Together for the Yes, for its compromise, and also looking to the future but also recognize the past, we will support this legislative initiative. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.205.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bonvehi. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the opinion of the Committee on External Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.206.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.207.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.208.0	Thank you. It wasn't my intention, but Mrs Boya made me. First of all, all the ports of call and all the turntables come to make what the Law 52/2007 says complete respect for the withdrawal of Francoist symbols; much better if it is in the hands of the municipal brigade, because it is the public administrations to which they correspond to make the law complete. Secondly, I have heard with great attention, I have listened with great attention, his proposals, names, in the matter of modifications of the Law of Historical Memory of 2007. They could perfectly have presented them as an initiative of their group, or they could have presented them as a threat to this proposal. There is no time for this, but there is no other in the process of amending Law 52/2007, and I very much hope that its proposals will be met.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.209.0	Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.210.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.211.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.212.0	Mr. Pedret, we'd love for the municipal brigade to swallow the plates, which happens to be beating up Arran Lleida's militants who tried, instead of helping them. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.213.0	We shall proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies the proposed law for which it is recognized and extended rights and established measures in favour of those who suffered persecution and violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and against. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Proposal for a resolution on the creation of a commission of inquiry into the Catalonia operation]] [[252-0004/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the motion for a resolution creating a commission of inquiry into the Catalan operation. As this motion for a resolution has been tabled for the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, Mr Lluís Guinó will speak in the first place on behalf of Junts per el Si. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, as always, ask the Members who are silent and in a hurry to continue with the plenary session. [[Pause.]] When you want, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.214.0	President... Ladies and gentlemen, let me begin by saying that I am very happy to have to talk in the Catalonian Parliament about the Catalonian operation. And I repeat, it is quite practical for us to talk about the Catalonian operation in the Parliament of Catalonia, as a Member, as a representative of Catalonian citizenship and as a political and political leader in general. And I'll explain the motius to them. The first reason has to do with the fact that this is not a question that you strictly refer to neither the political difference, nor the different approaches that we have to the political groups that we set up this chamber, nor do you only have to see with political adscripts. This is a planned operation from the Government of the State, and, in concrete terms, from the Ministry of the Interior. I will already go on to concretely what are the actors of this political activity, but what I do want to say is that, beyond political differences, this is a piece of planning from the basic structure of the State, with what it supposes of problems of political trust, of participation of the State against political dissent, against political differences and, clearly, against independence. The main actors of this history begin in the Ministry of the Interior, in the basic structure of the State and with Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz, who, from the year 2012, when he saw or did not assume himself who was the change that was produced to the Catalan society respect the incompliments on the part of the State, and, more importantly, respect the need to change the political situation in the country, he believes that by starting an activity with which I will define later, somehow the Catalans would stop thinking or, somehow, perforating their hopes and concerns beyond what is now the state of autonomy. Mrs. Alicia Sánchez-Camacho, President of the People's Party and Secretary of the Congress of the Deputies, is also a main protagonist of all this history, and we do not give it from a perspective of forming part of another political party, but we give it to some of the girls' demonstrations in the recordings that appear from the famous dinar of La Camarga believe that she has actively participated in this history together with another actor, who is Jorge Moragas, who is a person of maximum confidence of the President of the Government. The minister also took part, and he also knows it not because we say it, but because they say the recordings made, and as a result, the director of the Anti-Fraud Office, Mr. De Alfonso, had to resign. And by the end, the police. And the police are concretely referring to Mr. Eugenio Pino, excap of the police, who before a judge, has been very little – and so it is acknowledged, it is not the invention of the deputy of the Democratic Party –, he talked about that he had a powerful imagination to make things up and... – I use the castle because it is better –, "and give things for sitting, which means that there was no investigation, no police search as it would fit and obviously did not respect the need to objectively credit questions and complaints. Another main actor, mainly, is Mr. Villarejo, who was a commissari. D'aquest senyor, a journalist who for two years has studied a fund l'operació Catalunya des de la primo dia, says expressly: "It may seem an exaggeration what I am writing, but after two years of journalistic research I have no doubt: José Manuel Villarejo Pérez is the great architect of a police-judicial mob that has kidnapped justice, has extortioned democracy and is punctuating Spanish politics, and has done so in the most blatant way, protected by factual powers at all times. As this gentleman was supposed to be, as this gentleman was supposed to work, as this gentleman was supposed to investigate that same minister, Mr. Zoido, when he took possession, decided to stop him and with him all the team that accompanied him. Therefore, it is, in a way, a political action that certainly believes that there was a need, on the part of the department, to regenerate, because the situation was very difficult to explain, especially that which developed later. Around him was Marcelino Martín-Blas, who was the excap of Internal Assumptions; Mr. Fuentes Gago, who was the Director General Operative, and a whole group of people who were devoted during these practically three years and a half, four, to committing illegal operations, to making police mountains, to making false files to discredit, to politically harm people, to slander, to offend, to offend, to use facts reserved for all these actions and, from this point of view, and what is more difficult, as police, to act in a secret and scandalous way to the law; those precisely that use legalism, laws and standards to, in some way, impose certain criteria. It certainly took place in a theoretically democratic state with all the elements and with all the characteristics of a non-democratic state and, therefore, from our point of view, totalitarian. The political police had disappeared or seemed to have disappeared from our political language. Political police are a concept of dictatorships. If a search for information about what the political police are, some say it's like torture, once you've been there, for this path, you can't stop until, more than that, it ends up self-destructing you. That's the political police. This is the political police activity in a democratic state. It is really a democratic involvement, without any doubt; it is an unacceptable democratic involvement. It is the persecution of dissent, of differences. The political persecution of dissent in a democratic state is incompatible when some, precisely, continuously explain in certain discourses that, precisely, transparency, the political positions of each of them are always defendable from a dialect perspective. Jefferson said that, besides... and, perhaps, what is harder and, above all, when it directly affects not so many police officials but political leaders as, in this case, Mrs Sánchez-Camacho, said Jefferson that there is only an ethical_sole, that there is no division between public ethics and private ethics, but that it is especially important, to punish and decisive the ethics that affect politics, because the political objectives do not justify, in any case, media that are immoral and unethical. The truth that has been recognized since, above all, the Illustration, as a precondition for building citizens' confidence in policies, is incompatible with lying. Lying politically, as some have done, generates loss of confidence; it somehow generates the fact that citizens stop trusting in policies, and, more importantly, it should generate the loss of the burden of the person who lies politically. Because, in the background, it's not a lie that can be justified, but it's a lie to the whole society, to all the citizens who at one point have relied on policies. And that's the situation. And when I said I was doing my best, I said it because we're ahead of a plot of extortion, trying to destroy the political opponent. And that's not democracy. Having different approaches in the political sphere is what should be common and, moreover, all political positions in this chamber are defendable and, especially, now – all, absolutely. Everyone can expose their vision, but the one that doesn't feel and doesn't have to be justified from a perspective is the political persecution that they think is different. Obviously the Criminal Code can be applied, but this is already a direct responsibility of the courts, we are interested in politics, and we ask and ask for all these people to be present to explain what they have done and, moreover, to assume their responsibilities. And to finish my intervention, and speaking of lying in politics, you must have heard some time what Abraham Lincoln said, that you can lie to a few for a long time, you can lie and fool a lot for a little while too, but what you can never do is lie to a lot of times. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.215.0	Thank you, Mr. Guinó. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.216.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, look, we are not going to avoid this committee of inquiry, but we cannot vote in favour of a committee called 'Operation Catalonia', because you are making use of the name Catalonia and taking it for granted. And this isn't about an operation in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] It goes from espionage to opposition, it goes from political espionage. You, neither Left Republican, nor Convergence and Union, nor Mr Junqueras, nor Mr Mas are Catalonia; you are not. If you are being spyed on by a government, with political interests, we have to defend it by all democrats, but not by appropriating the name of Catalonia. Mr. Mas, Mr. Pujol, are not Catalonia. The Pujol, with their millions abroad, blamed the Catalonian operation for having been revealed to them what their accounts were. By the way, less than a month ago, the Andorran Constitutional Court has said that nothing about that and has not given them the reason in their speeches. Therefore, this is a case of political espionage. And I'm going to tell you what Citizens' position is on this matter. Look, I'd like to remind you of the minister's denunciation of this intolerable performance from the zero minute. From the zero minute we ask for the removal of the director of Antifrau, we ask the minister for explanations immediately, we vote in Congress for his reprobation, we expressly ask for his resignation, and finally we vote in Congress for the establishment of a commission of inquiry there. And it cannot be otherwise, because that is the invariable position that citizens have held in everything that concerns democratic control of governments and democratic regeneration. I would like to remind you that we here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry into the Boxes, which is now also going to be done at the request of National Citizens in the Congress of Deputies, that this affects the actions of the parties of the old policy, which sat on the board of directors of the Boxes, also together with the trade unions, while the citizens saw their assets plundered with abusive mortgages, swaps and preferences. We promoted this commission of inquiry here, in Catalonia, as pioneers, in the same way as we did with the commission of inquiry into the Pujol affair to which you, by the way, changed the name to untidy the friendly family that robbed us and it was neither a commission of the Convergence case. And you did..., changed his name to vote favorably by calling it the "corruption, tax evasion and so on..., in general. This is what we voted for. I would also like to remind the proponents of this committee of inquiry that we voted in favour and that the Republican Left and Convergence and also the PSC voted in April 2013 against the opening of a committee of inquiry into political espionage. Because I remind you that here in Catalonia, Councillor Puig had to appear in Parliament because of the alleged espionages that had appeared in the press to the members of the Government of Convergence themselves – remember – and to those of Union – that political memory sometimes fails us –, to Councillor Gordó, who today sits as a deputy in these seats, was also accused of having been investigated precisely at the request of the Government. And I remind you that Convergence and Esquerra cast a tupid veil on that issue that we did promote at the time and that you voted against. I would ask you here: be brave and expand the object of this commission of inquiry, change the name of it, we do not call it "Operation Catalonia", because it is not, because there is nothing with Catalonia, there is espionage against opposition parties, very reprehensible. Let us broaden the name, let us call it the committee of inquiry into the practices of political espionage and then we can talk about changing the meaning of our vote, which for the time being cannot be anything other than abstention. Look, the purpose of this commission is not to erase the Palau case; the Pujol case; the 3_per_cent case; the ITV case; mask all the mess you're up against, you don't know where to get out of the new November 9th... ; it's not this. The aim of a commission of inquiry against political espionage is to shed light on what has happened, so that citizens know who is responsible for political action for trying to investigate opposition politicians. And the goal is also that this will not happen again. The objective, when a parliament makes a commission of inquiry, is to defend democracy, to enhance politics and to give special shine to the work that we do by defending the freedoms of all. The right of the opposition is to defend itself from the abuses of a government and to monitor that power. In the United States, remember that there was the Watergate case. Here we had Method 3 dossiers on Catalan leaders of the detective agency. In Italy in 94, secret service agents reported having been expelled for refusing to follow politicians of opposition parties. In 2006 it was Berlusconi who was accused by Romano Prodi's government of being behind the espionage of famous politicians. In France, Prime Minister Villepin commissioned General Rondot from the secret services to investigate alleged lists of payment of commissions made to Sarkozy and then it turned out that those lists were false. So this... nothing has been invented here in Spain. There, in the United States, in Italy, in France, they did not say the « operation Italy, the « operation France, the « operation United States, they called it by the name of the scandals that arose. You are not Catalonia, you should be only democrats who demand that your nation's government not abuse its power, do not spy on others, comply with the laws, subject itself to democratic control by parliaments. Be those Democrats who demand in the name of democracy all that. And you too, as a government that you are, and I turn now to the members of the government, to the duties of a democratic government. Do not be involved either in these matters with the Cesicat, as occurred in the years 2013 and 2014 under the governments of Artur Mas. We, in Citizens, will be at the side of any investigation that serves to clarify an abuse of power by a government or a minister, always; but what we cannot do is to endorse a commission of inquiry that is done with a name that already denotes the purpose of this commission, which is to make the victims, to misuse this commission. And, therefore, I have already told you that we want to get to the end of all this, we will also do so in the Congress of Deputies. All these parties that we are here today are part of the Congress of Deputies, except the CUPs. We will all have the opportunity at the Congress of Deputies, too, to investigate. This committee will also come forward in Parliament. We will participate in it, but I repeat to you: we cannot endorse with our favourable vote a committee to which you give a name in which you are already describing perfectly what your intentions are. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.217.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa. Next, the words of Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.218.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, should you ask yourself: are the security forces serving the society or the governing party? The former Minister of the Interior, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, created a unit called "patriotic police to serve his interests? Did I know the president of the government, Mr. Rajoy? Did you let him do it? For what we have known for the media, for the leaks of interest from the same patriotic unit, more well, for the fights that have occurred between its members, the minister supposedly had financed an irregular group of high-ranking police and their confidence with a double objective: criminalizing democratic political forces and obstructing the conduct of investigations that affected some leaders of the People's Party. Ep! Not only in Catalonia – not only in Catalonia – but in the whole of Spain. Perils, very perils! This is one of the red lines that the right states cannot allow. This behavior, from our point of view, is deeply undemocratic and, if you will, unpatriotic. And that happened in parallel with another reality. The government of Catalonia and one of the parties that form the coalition of government, in a sense of doubt, have a problem with corruption: open sums for illegal schemes to steal money, some leaders accused from Oscar to Viloca, we will see that. The Millet case judgment, Montull and the first phase of the 3_per_cent, presumed irregular financing of Democratic Convergence in March. By the way, today's leaders have pointed directly to the Democratic Convergence in line that the conclusions of the parliamentary committee – which, I remember, eight years ago was created in this Parliament – already pointed out. In fact, after the pyromusical that started today, I think they've touched them in some of the Christmas Fat, huh? The whole family of the accused President Pujol, the ITV case that was remembered before, the Torredembarra case, plus 3_per_cent. Look, justice must come to fruition, but that can't be an excuse for what has been going on: mountains over a supposedly real landscape of irregularities and corruption, but gross war from the state's keyposts to fight non-corruption, I repeat, to fight political ideas, independence and non-independence. And independent positions – certainly, as legitimate as those we defend counter-independence positions – must have a political response from democratic institutions, not from the state's keyposts. But a mountain that in the end has been so distasteful and uncontrollable that even the Minister..., exterminates, has been etched on his own official dispatch in friendly conxorx with the former director of the Anti-Fraud Office. The concern is how it may be that the most responsible for the security of the State is etched on its own official dispatch. That's a scandal. And still more scandalous than anyone who had to ask for responsibilities and, in fact, stop it, as it would have happened in a normal democratic state, as it was always done the orna and looked at it from another side. Is it Mr. Rajoy's consent? But there are more questions than they have at the moment. Are there any more recordings? Looks like it. With who? Why? Someone or some want to subtly subtly the state and the government to criminal chants? When the first alarms were blown it seemed that there was a police group that acted without control and from anonymity to discredit the political class against the People's Party; in Catalonia, independent leaders, but elsewhere in the State, their political opponents. You have this theory that we've known doesn't hold up. And this has happened in a black five-year period: detailed freedom with the name of "the law bites and an express willingness to use obscure proceedings against political opponents outside the courts of justice with a clear deviation of power. And we're not talking about any people, we're talking about the police dome. The despots were not in the fear, or subterraneans of the dreaded political-social brigade, were in the care of the police and political leaders of the Ministry of the Interior. What's happened and we don't know if it's happening yet is more like authoritarian rules. One time the parties were known, not only have they not cleared themselves of responsibilities, but above all they have generously rewarded those who participated in the consortium with the fates of the most demands for their wages or with suspicious placements to the private enterprise in security responsibilities. This committee will work in parallel with the committee set up at the Congress of the Deputies, among other groups, of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol. These commissions that will work in parallel, like the rest of us, we want to know..., we want to know, because it is so simple and clear: we want to know what happened. I would like to say to the House that conclusions will also have to be reached at the Congress of Deputies. To conclusions, of what? Why have dubious truth and rigor files been developed? Why have certain people here, from Catalonia, been and have been in the service and construction competitions for decades and with connections to police services? We will... – and this is up to the state government and, if not, the rest of the democratic parties will have to push it – the interior infrastructure will have to be cleaned up. Because at the end of the day the interior structures have to be healed because the security bodies have done, do and will do a phonative task in the fight against terrorism and crime, and because they are a phonative pillar of a state with legal guarantees. And all the deputies and all the deputies know that Catalonia is not all ideal, we know, because of recordings and monitoring of mobiles and electronic mails, there has also been, at last, resignation of government officials. I want to remind them, if anyone doesn't remember, the case of the Cesicat, which isn't long ago. And, of course, while initiating this process of interested filtering, in truth, with true myths and falsehoods, in the Congress of Deputies the Socialist Group asked for explanations. And you know what was going on? That the Democratic Convergence group agreed with the PP government the law of private security. What's the matter with you? We'll have time to talk about this on this board of inquiry, too. But what's happened, we can't take a joke. We are ahead of episodes that point to police practices guided by partisan interests and obstruction of justice. Even so, the prosecution has protested about the way this group of unconditional members of the minister and his police director general acted. Still, it's good that the vast majority of police are good professionals serving the security of citizens. We still have a doubt: did the police of the Catalonian Government have knowledge of tripijocs? It'll be nice to meet you too. And finally, the Socialist Group hopes that the will of Junts for the Yes, at the time of proposing this commission of inquiry, to which the Socialist Group will support, we hope that the will, I repeat, of Junts for the Yes will not continue to cover up the Santiago Vidal commission and the triple maneuvers of some of you, who want to reach independence by the express way. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.219.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.220.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Guinó, you're right, you can't always fool everyone. Make a note if you're lying someday. Our group will vote in favour of the creation of this committee, but it will do so with deep mistrust, mistrust in a couple of issues that I will explain to you. The first is related to the results that can be achieved. In this case, I would like to refer to the Commission's conclusions on fraud and tax evasion in the last parliamentary term, which originated as a result, as you know, of President Pujol's fraud confession, referring to the powers to investigate a commission like this one in the Parliament of Catalonia. Neither for the resources that they have nor for the mechanisms that mark the Rules, any fact investigated that, moreover, it has contact with other investigations of judicial character will hardly be able to go from consolidating with more or less fortune the initial hypothesis of planting of each group without the conclusion that the conclusions can be considered consolidated facts, nor only those of political character. The fact of the legal inconsistency in whether or not the presence of certain persons outside the scope of Catalonia is obligatory, the fact of the preponderance in the presentation of the witnesses and the lack of flexibility in the questioning of the deputies, the fact of the legal silence when someone is being investigated for justice and some other facts gathered in those recommendations that have not been addressed from then on are in a high probability of finishing up conclusions that could be assimilated more to those of a study commission, with a certain character linking and little more. Everything that's important – this is important. And, if not, they value the findings of the Palau investigation committee, which pointed directly to the facts that we know today; we are triganizing too many years, but they are getting stronger. Or value the conclusions of the Pujol Committee, which everyone qualified as a show, but which are confirming one by one with the passage of the days. But real investigations brought them justice. And Parliament has brought study, provided clues, provided recommendations. This prevention, therefore, is related to a real investigation, especially in the case we are dealing with, that can have a highly speculative character, and that is what generates our first mistrust. But the second is in relation to the object and the purposes that are intended, which is not the same. We certainly share the view that the essential objective is to reveal what is to be achieved in the scandalously irregular actions of some institutions of the Administration that have supposedly been used for political purposes to harm the adversary, without looking at the hour of prostitution the work of the police and justice. Now, is this the real purpose of creating a commission of inquiry now, when the detonator's been gone for months? Is it now, when the trial begins for the Palau case and we are confirming the suspicions that Convergence and Union has been able to make electoral campaigns and win elections with money saved from Palau? Is it now, when the judge is running the 3-per-cent game? – earlier than 4, for which it seems, with the appearance of new cases. Is it now, when you shut down the Manga case, on the charge of drawings of people related to parties in the government? It is now, when it is also asked to investigate what is certain in the statements of a judge about acts that would have an unquestionable totalitarian character of the Government of the Generality, if they were indeed? So, does the actual purpose of the proposers match the shared objective? Or are we watching a pure and simple entertainment maneuver? This is the second and huge mistrust of this board of inquiry. And this group, to this, will not cooperate. We are interested in knowing, like the former, whether any institution has been used, not for that which has been conceived, but to pursue the political enemy in an irresponsible and fraudulent way, and if it comes to this conclusion, to bring it as a parliament to the prosecution because it acts legally against those responsible for an action that puts under suspension the proper functioning of the state of law. The first to demand criminal responsibility, if you don't. Now, we will not cooperate in any diversionary maneuver or to weave smoke curtains on the very serious charges that weigh on which the first party of this country has been in relation to its corruption cases. And we want to know which of your ranks are responsible for holding hands raw. Why fix it: if there were no such suspects and there were no strong fears in the social consideration of their existence, they would not have been able to operate in Catalonia, because no one would have thought of it. That is to say, to place a lie in such a way that it seems true, you have to place it with many truths, and this could be – this could be – the reality. For us, therefore, it is indisputable that the security forces of the State cannot use for political purposes the legal instruments at their disposal, and much less resort to the brute war to weaken or destroy a political project. We will walk around and try to thank you as much as possible to reach some conclusion in this sense, as well as the limited attributions of this Parliament. Now, at the same time, let's say that corruption needs to be investigated, judged and condemned in case it is proven; it's the same political color and the symbolic fish of the involved and whose flag is emboldened. And that will definitely come out in this committee. Because, in the same way that we are convinced that in the wake of the alleged operation Catalonia there may have been accusations of people without fonction, we are equally convinced that there will be other people who may have fonction, because it forms part of the day of investigation that they make police and justice. And we would do a very low favor to the justice of the country if under the heavy errors of form used we allow the innocence of defrauders, corrupters and corrupters. And, look, let me make a reminder for those who have little memory. The memory that La Camarga's dinar is from July 2010, all that explodes and is known in 2013, and it is in this famous dinar with "flower" that we can place the sort of exit of this that today we call "Operation Catalunya". But I will tell you clearly and catalally: we would not want in any case an operation generated when Convergence and Union and the People's Party were about to start collaborating with the Parliament of Catalonia and were giving mutual support here and to the State, and it was silenced for three years of idyllic love between elites, can now justify socially or legally, due to defects in form, the evils of Pujol and the Convergence of the negotiations. In this game, we will not only not enter, but in this commission we will try to make these two elements well reflected and well balanced. And I am convinced that the rest of the groups that have nothing to store will agree with this position. For our group, therefore, this must not be a committee where victimism is intended to fuel by demonstrating the alleged gross war of the Spanish State against independence, but by uncovering any gross war, by uncovering the illegal, illegal or fraudulent behaviours of those who have used institutions, in the Spanish State and also in Catalonia, to defame certain political adversaries and obtain a personal or electoral right. I remind you, ladies and gentlemen of Convergence and Unity, now with different names but with many of the same cares, that at La Camarga, when all this begins, you were not yet independent; but, in change, you were already aware of the activities of the Pujol family and its circle of beneficiaries. And I suppose they'll accept that this circle loses the favors and the silences of those with whom they've been suffering until then when the independence fervour is sealed, and it's when this operation takes a different flight, it involves personalities of the highest and most embolistic level certain elements of justice and security forces, which is, I suppose, what we'll be asked to investigate. Therefore, our group, taking into account these two great mistrusts and, in particular, the most likely lack of attendance of certain witnesses who are key to the knowledge of the facts, will want to present a work programme focused on two great objectives: what is to be concluded in the fraudulent use of institutions for political persecution and what is likely in the suspicious developments in the march of police work developed during this period. Mirin, the illegitimate behaviour of certain persons does not invalidate or can invalidate the legitimate behaviour of the majority; also that of the police and that of justice. On the basis, therefore, of this hypothesis and the existence of the two previous behaviors, we will have to present and agree on the work programme of the commission, which we would wish it to be a short, functional and practical commission, and not a victimist, insubstantial and rhetorical commission. That's what we're gonna put in and work on. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.221.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.222.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs..., look, Mr. Guinó, it has to be held – it has to be held – a lot of bar and many pens to come here, to this Faristol, and say that they make them physically determine things when we have to recast Mr. Montull and Mr. Millet talking. [[Widow's remorse.]] « Fastic, speak you? A Lord of Convergence? Do me a favor, please! It may be recalled that you, who call "Operation Catalunya", did not operate Catalonia, in the end, with which it starts with motxillas and bumps full of money that Mr. Pujol and his family took to Andorra. This is the reality that you want to put together with this inquiry petition. This petition for a commission of inquiry, as we see it, will surely be approved. And the creation of a commission of inquiry into something that doesn't exist will be approved. There is no operation in Catalonia. What exists – and we say so, clearly – is a distraction operation. "The great escape, they say; the cover up with this commission that was created recently, last week, the one that should give them disgust and shame, the one born by statements of Mr Vidal – putative father of the Catalan pseudoconstitution – and Mr Salvadó – still today secretary of the Catalan hacienda –, saying and affirming that fundamental rights of Catalans were systematically violated. That's the real operation, the one of shame. This also indicated that data were collected from Catalans, personal data of a fiscal nature, lists of good and bad judges. And this committee that you come to ask here, obviously with the support of some parliamentary groups, what you want is precisely to cover that, cover that today not even the president, not the vice president, not the advisors, not the people involved have given any explanation about it; nothing. Do you not have to say anything at all? Will the fundamental rights of Catalans be violated and will they not give any explanation in this chamber where all Catalans are represented? Is that democratic quality? Are you going to teach democratic quality lessons? I don't think so. You have dedicated yourselves to violating not only fundamental rights, but to trampling Catalan citizens, making illegal lists and lists of judges worthy of Eden and judges worthy of exile. That reality is what we have here, in this chamber, and not a non-existent operation. In all that list context it is added that last week two deputies who are sitting in this chamber and working on a law of transitoryity, that law of the coup that you keep under lock and key – that law of the coup, yes sir – warned in an auditorium that the road to that dreamy Catalan state would not be either peaceful or ordered. That's what you're doing. They move between lies and illegalities; lies and illegalities when today precisely – today precisely – the looting to which we Catalans have been subjected has been recognized for many years. And it has been recognized in a court here, not in one of Madrid; it has been committed by people here, not by people in Madrid, in relation to the very expensive public work that we have paid all the citizens here, all the Catalan citizens, that we have paid the extra costs in public works, because you, precisely the lords of Democratic Convergence and their white mark – that is, we are the same members, but we changed the title of the thing – you took to your party..., or to your party or, according to which of your party, to your pockets. That's the reality. You guys spent the whole morning watching what was going on in the Palau case view. That is the reality before which we find ourselves. And this afternoon – this afternoon – they no longer look away, because now, this afternoon, nerves are already nominative, they already have name and last name. And that's why you're going to have to explain. That's the real Catalan operation, which articulated lords like Millet and the Montull clan; helped, of course, by a structure of a Democratic Convergence that has been dedicated for many years to making Catalans pay for their public works an excess of cost and take money into their pockets. Those for which you have never given explanations, either under one acronym or under another. Because the only operation Catalonia, which has not existed..., and the only thing the Spanish government has done during these years, do you know what it has been? It has been to prevent you from continuing to violate the fundamental rights of Catalans, and to prevent you from continuing to be listed between Catalans of the first and Catalans of the second, while those of the second are those who do not share their process of rupture. You have continued to pay bills for those public services that you paid for: dependency, day care centers. It has helped to sustain the state of well-being, which is enjoyed by all Catalans, whether or not they are independent. And you know how? With the effort of all the Spaniards, with more than 62,000_million_of_euro received between 2012 and 2016 to pay those suppliers that you did not pay, with the FLA, with financial facilities, with those aids and with that economic reality that has lived here for many years, that even Mr Junqueras recognized in a report against foreign investors that was going to last until 2026. In short, does the Spanish Government know what it has done? To be the government of all the Spaniards, including also the Catalans, those whom you have left to your fate. Therefore, from the People's Party we are not going to support and lend ourselves to this manoeuvre of distraction, which seems to be not very successful: I have to tell you that today's trending topic is precisely Mr Millet and Mr Montull. Looks like the distraction maneuver isn't working out very well for them. We find it sad that other parliamentary groups end up being the crucible of this diversionary manoeuvre which they denounce from this Faristol but which, agilely, lend themselves to voting in favour. Don't make up any more operations. No more Catalan operations are invented, diàleg, pastanaga..., in short, you have a linguistic creativity already more than demonstrated, because the only ones who captain here an operation are you, which is the operation of the breakup, an operation that certainly has no good exit. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.223.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.224.0	Thank you, President. The brutal war in the State against Catalan independence has long mediated and captured headlines, and it is not strange that this Parliament can ask and ask answers to those who are the fan, to those who have always done so. It is not strange, either, that this Parliament allows the public complaint of those Democrats who do not want it any more, who have suffered it and who still suffer it. Now, let us not deceive ourselves, the brutal war of the State, of its police bodies, of its politicized courts, many years ago. The people of the independent left, of the anti-capitalist movements, of the dissent, of all those, in short, who build against hegemony, know very well, because they have suffered inventions, arrests, infiltrations and, finally, tortures and murders. The State systematically pursues all those movements that clearly question the status quo. He's always done it. And that's why we have a commission of inquiry into the Catalonian operation, we think it cannot be restricted at the present time, nor to the current policies, nor to the Principality. And we'll talk for two minutes and we'll have stories to talk about it a thousand, because operations in Catalonia haven't been many, and surely many more will come in the historical moment when we're, so moving 'for the labyrinths of the harpsichord is his way of hearing democracy, a democracy that makes it modest to harpsichord. U: independence. Thirty-five years ago, March 14, 1982, the autonomous political forces had called for a demonstration against LOAPA, that law of political re-centralisation, directly inherited from the 23rd-F coup d'état and which showed that for the Spanish political forces it had gone far and wide in that of autonomy. Independence emerged in a separate block from the demonstration after the largest independence banner ever made to me, after the solidarity committee with the Catalan patriots, the IPC parties, the SPAN, and many people who went as far as the demonstration went forward. And what's happened is well-known, and of a person we know very well and who everyone will ask to attend. Barcelona's civil governor, Jorge Fernández Díaz, thirty-five years ago, the fucking minister, managed to arrest, enforce the new law in defense of democracy, and undertake the leaders of the IPC who were in the first row of this demonstration, just behind the banner of independence, accused of promoting the rebellion. Carles Castellanos and Ramon Pelegrí were taken to the prison Model, and Eva Serra, Teresa Lecha, the White Serra and Maite Carrasco were taken to the prison of Trinitat. There was a_me, thanks to Mr. Jorge Fernández Díaz, without any kind of evidence, because the banner was not found, it was well damaged. One_me, and on the road great mobilization: an intense support campaign, with a motto that was"I was there too. I don't know if it sounds like a mike, then we're all 9-N. Thirty-five years ago independence had liked to go out to the political scene, to be openly immigrated from a climate of repression. Two: lies and tortures. 1992, Operation Garzón. The celebration of the Olympic Games as a pretext. The security forces of the State launched a campaign of political and police repression that involved the arrest, totally arbitrary, without evidence and with torture, of a fifty people linked to the Catalan independenceist left, for an alleged connection with Terra Lliure. The National Court – that court they have there in Madrid and that we already know who you are from – determined that the blaus, the marks on the skin and the various wounds of the detainees had been caused by self-injury. And it was not until 2004 that, after the investigation in Spain, the European Court of Human Rights ruled the guilt of the Spanish State in this area of torture. Three: brutal war, connection to the ultrathreat, bombs and Catalan countries. End of the 1970s, the battle of València to the Transition. The most reactionary sector of the Valencian right wanted to eradicate the predominance of the left by mitigating coercion and antiticatalanism as a stony strategy. Catalan militia was terrorism of dreets and of state: bombs against Catalanism at the Estadi del Llevant, at the aplec of the Valencia Country at the plaça de bous, at the home of Joan Fuster, among many others. The blaverism that the Valencian country has ruled for so many years from the hands of the New Force fascists. The connection between fascism and state terrorism, we could talk about hours – we could talk about hours. For example, of Guillem Agulló, that activist of the youth organization of the independent left Maulets, of Burjassot, of the operation Panzer and of the Nazi that he murdered, Pedro Cuevas ; the prisons that organized Alliance National and Spanish 2000, assassins that are present at some elections in a democratic system, and is left. Four: persecution of social movements. Remember the period of Julia García Valdecasas, also very well known. Government delegate to Catalonia from 1996 to 2003, in full aznarism. To the band of its hard repressive against the occupied movement and antiglobalization – remember the displacement of the cinema Princess in 1996–, it was obstinate to link the Catalan independence left with the abertzale left for which it does the fighting media. The example of this policy was the case of the three of Gràcia, those three young people who were accused of organizing an imaginary armed group built from reports of the Spanish National Police. Accusation filed. Lies. The feeling, which was very funny, said in text: "The reports seem to be written for the disappeared Political Social Brigade of the Francoism. Evidence of the media used for Ms. García Valdecasas. Five: others, arrested, fraternally. Let's not forget what the LAG was in the Basque Country, the quarter of Intxaurrondo, Mikel Zabalza mor emmanillat sur la riu Bidasoa twenty days after the arrests of the para-police groups. Leave and Zabala buried in live pants. Torture as a tool of state and a lifetime pension for the 1,600_euro assassins for services loaned to the Spanish State. Let's not forget what the Afer Cubillo was like in the Canaries. That attempt to assassinate an independent leader for agents of the Spanish police service. Who? Martin Villa, the same after the massacre of March 3rd in Vitòria, the same as the case Scale against the CNT, chasing anarchism, the same one that claims Argentine justice via the judicial Servini for crimes against humanity during the Francois. A murder who ended up presiding over Endesa. Behind the revolving doors and paying for services loaned to the State. More: the Egin newspapers, Egunkaria, closed to the Basque Country; the illegalization of the parties and the electoral apartheid on the left abertzale. Yes, Patxi López, the candidate who has just returned from Catalonia and speaks of cultural nationalism. Yeah, brute war. This is also the Catalonia operation. It is, too. We'd talk a thousand minutes, but I'm two and twenty-three seconds away. Therefore, we insist on it: no more the wife of a lead man – no more the wife of a lead man. The bailiff serves both to pursue the 9-N ballot boxes, as well as to appoint the president and the Bureau of this Parliament, as well as to accuse the registrar of Vic, Joan Coma, of sedition. He's done it all the time. Mr. Fernández Díaz has been doing it for thirty-five years. It's not new. He's done it all the time. He's going to follow me. And that's why we don't want to limit this commission of inquiry into the Catalonian operation, neither at the present time, nor to the current policies, nor to the issues that have emerged in the interventions that preceded me. Maybe we should invite Guillem Aguló's peers to compare. And unfortunately we won't be able to invite as many independents as in Macia Manera, of the MDT, because it explains to us how they detained him and how they carried him to Madrid in a helicopter pretending to throw him into the sea half way, the Civil Guard, sent to the Spanish State. And I end up with a self-recordor, because Catalonia has also had a particular brutal war against the dissidence of the squadrons' information units. And I remember only one case, that of the Portulas Nuria, for example. We don't forget that either. And in any operation in Catalonia we will always make our own in Xirinacs when he said that "we will fight against the fort while we are still weak and against ourselves when we are still strong. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.225.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The debate is over. We'll proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's start the vote. The vote begins. The proposal to set up the commission of inquiry into the Catalonia operation was approved by 98 votes to 11, with 22 abstentions. [[Question to the Government on democratic justice and the rule of law]] [[300-00135/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on democratic justice and the authoritarian state of law, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas. [[Widow's remorse.]] As always, they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, please, because we have to continue. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.226.0	Yes; thank you, President, and thank you to whom you have remained. The last point of the order of the day. I wanted to start the questioning by making it clear that those people who for years have climbed the courts of justice know that at the base of our judicial system..., the basis of this system is full of honest people, working people, anonymous people and people who have a concept of justice that is important, that always strives and every day because the law and the right are, above all, sources of conflict resolution and not creating problems, right? I would therefore like to make it clear from our parliamentary group, first of all, that all these people are being recognized. And to make it clear, then, that we encourage them to continue working in this direction. But, said that, the content of our inquiry was in the sense of manifesting the accelerated expansion, in our view, which is alive in our country for the judicial debate that we live, between law and democracy, or between legality and justice, is it not? And these are some reflections on the respect that we wanted to put on the table. We are clear that the Spanish State, the legal actors of the State reveal a very strong continuity of the past, not only of the Francoist past, but also of the previous era; I refer to the 19th century, which is the time when the Spanish legal culture is going, somehow, to forge. It is true that year 78 approved a constitution that established a social and democratic state of law, but that state was not built on an empty space, but it was built on a system formed by normative, institutional and behavioral elements that were of the past. That is to say, in the Spanish State, unlike the Federal Republic of Germany, there was no table with legal order, they did not repeal standards – most of them–, they did not declare judgments void, they did not purify or reform the judiciary, the prosecution or the other institutions of the State... And it brought us to a situation that, sociologically, as explained by the Professor of History of the Dret de la Universitat Pompeu Fabra, the Alfons Aragonese, using the half-hour of the pargamí..., we find that, in some way, just as it passed to the Edat Mitjana, in which the pargamins were scarce, so it was scratched what had been written and, many times, the previous writing remained the same, Romania in the text. So, somehow that's what happens to legal culture in the Spanish State, isn't it? , which continues to feel so much present this whole mess, this background that transmits judgments and prosecutors in a Gerontocratic pyramidal structure, which is dedicated to reproducing this culture, insistently, legal of the 19th century. All this, moreover, is possible in a prosecutorial scheme that is not independent, that..., it is a shame that there is no deputy Carrizosa, because today we would have to remind him that the model of the prosecutorial system of the 78th, says the very Constitution that the prosecutorial system..., not that it is not independent, is that it directly says that it is hierarchically dependent on the government. And in this case, the government today is one of the most corrupt governments in Europe, one of the governments most condemned for corruption, which is called the People's Party. The displacement of which until now had been superior fiscal to Murcia, Mr. Manuel López Bernal, who, moreover, has publicly denounced pressure and intimidation for having stood out in the fight against corruption, precisely in a community governed by the People's Party, came to say very little ago that it is more the prosecutors who fight against corruption than not the corrupt. In fact, in these past weeks there has also been a movement to the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, in which he has changed what was a prosecutor in the head and precisely placed a person who had no experience in the fight against corruption, Mr. Moix, and who is a friend, is a friend of Hope Aguirre. That is to say, there is a clear debugging of the Spanish prosecutor's office, lest all of them, the high commands, therefore, people like this corrupt government of the People's Party. Moreover, the press of Madrid, last week, published with Consuelo Madrigal, the one that had been the general prosecutor, that carried Eduardo Torres-Dulce, has not been revalidated as the general prosecutor, precisely because he refused to make all the modifications to the dome of the prosecutor's office that had asked him to minister of Justice. Let us not forget that Consuelo Madrigal became Attorney General after Eduardo Torres-Dulce resigned, who resigned from the pressures he had rejected and complained about the constants..., how the Ministry of Justice constantly interfered with the Attorney General of the State and, concretely, in the case of the 9-N lawsuit; the complaint that he had allegedly brought a cessation of another prosecutor to Catalonia, Mr. Martín Rodríguez Sol. And I think that the complaint, the so-called "second complaint against Forcadell, written directly for the Attorney General, and not for the Attorney General of Catalonia, which expels the deputy and company Joan Josep Nuet only for the result of his previous votes in this House, makes many of us no longer alienate ourselves from what he sees from the Spanish Prosecutor's Office and that we are convinced that the Spanish Prosecutor's Office cannot today preach that it is objective and much less impartial. But, to close, let's say, this circle needs, like at least, two more elements that we want to put on the table: one is said Manuel Marchena. He is today president of the Criminal Chamber of the Supreme Court and, therefore, the last instance, the last court that will resolve all these disputes that arise in this context of judicial debate against the Catalan institutional system. So, listen, if we went over what was Mr. Manuel Marchena's résumé, we'd find out... that they didn't know it was before being a judge of the Supreme Court, Mr. Manuel Marchena? So, no more or less than tax. Eventually, Mr. Manuel Marchena was, before he was jutge..., precisely he was a prosecutor. And who had Mr. Manuel Marchena worked with? So, in the time of the government of José María Aznar, it was the right hand of a attorney general who went to history precisely for his constant anorreation of rights and freedoms, and for a clearly "condensed vision of how the system of rights and contemporary freedoms is, I am referring to the Lord Jesus Cardinal". Manuel Marchena was the right hand of Jesús Cardenal, who kept the prosecution until Rodriguez Zapatero arrived. And at that time, Mr. Marchena entered the Supreme Court as a magistrate and, with Rajoy's presidency and his control of the General Council of the Judiciary, he is to be appointed president of the Supreme Court. And speaking specifically of the General Council of the Judiciary, its president, Carlos Lesmes, who is ultimately in charge of appointing the presidents of the higher courts of justice and the provincial hearings..., who is this president of the General Council of the Judiciary, Carlos Lesmes? So, miri, casually, there was also a tax state. And all the data I'm showing are public, well-known and absolutely transparent, Mr. PP. And it was interesting to be able to explain that Carlos Lesmes, president of the General Council of the Judiciary, had been, neither more nor less, than Director General of the Government of José María Aznar. And that, therefore, had kept a charge in the Execution of José María Aznar, from 1996 to 2004. And this person, who had been part of the execution of José María Aznar and who was to be known, precisely, of the government of the PP, is, neither more nor less, today, that the president of the Supreme Court and of the General Council of the Judiciary, in charge of instructing disciplinary expedients against judgments. Disciplinary expedients that..., do not forget that last week they denounced various judicial associations that a judge of Barcelona, Manuel Ruiz de Lara, one of the most active judges in denouncing abusive clauses of the bank and that more questions has raised before European justice..., has been investigated, this judge, secretly for more than a year by this General Council of the Judiciary, presided by Carlos Lesmes. Therefore, non-independent prosecution, Manuel Marchena for one side, Carlos Lesmes for the other... All these are questions that the CUP did not say, I said a report of the Council of Europe; a report of the Greek Group, of the Group of States against Corruption, which in its report of 2016 highlights the absolute lack of independence of the judicial and fiscal dome of the Spanish State. From this perspective, in our view, it is absolutely impossible to maintain today that we have an independent prosecutor's office in Catalonia that can secure the mandates and political orders of the Minister of Justice to return. It is impossible for us to maintain that, in this context, we have a sufficient legal culture to think about or to understand that there is a sufficiently democratic conception in this gear that will stop the abuses that from the perspective of the Ministry of Justice will do when it is given orders to all these people. And, therefore, we come to the conclusion that there is not enough to have approved a constitution almost forty years ago to say, to proclaim that the legality in which we live is a democratic legality. Earlier, in view of all the interventions that have been made by all and every one of these powers in the past few months, it leads us to think that we actually live in a state of law; but the question we are asking to the Councillor of Justice of our Government is: is this a democratic state of law or do we start to lie down more and more to an authoritarian state of law? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.227.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.228.0	Thank you, President. The honourable Member, finally, I believe that with the many examples that you have mentioned, that are actually examples that can be found simply by reviewing the curricula of people who are part of the governing bodies of the main stages linked to justice, to the Administration of Justice, we are certainly in a context in which it is worrying about the democratic quality in which in certain aspects..., and I believe that it is good that you have subtended to justice, when we refer to justice, not to put everyone in the same bag, but to focus on those issues that are discussed in the framework of a court, but that they are not close to a court. Therefore, it is obvious that the majority, the vast majority, are sure that the almost totality of the justices they impart justice do so according to their best technical criteria and their best knowledge. But it is also true that when the courts are in charge of resolving issues that are not to be discussed in a court of law, and therefore framed in the political debate, it is obvious that in this case they have more than objective difficulties – and you have not reported a few – in order to be able to defend themselves without putting themselves in the red that the criterion corresponds exclusively to the interpretation of the right or to the assessment of evidence and facts. And, in fact, the concern for the independence of justice and the concern for the impartiality with which the law is shared does not only hold it by the people who may see politics more intensively, but also by the citizens of the State; by the citizens of Catalonia; by the citizens of Catalonia, but also by the citizens of the State. And you in your explanation refer to concrete facts, concrete examples and situations that we can corroborate and that many times consist of the same curricula as the people you were considering. But if we look at the degree of confidence that the citizens of the Spanish State have – therefore, from the city council, from those who are most concerned about the issues that they may have with the political life of Catalonia and those who are not more distant – we see that, indeed, the vast majority of the citizens of Catalonia believe that the law does not apply equally to everyone. Thus, the perception of judicial independence is hard on the question of the conjunct of citizens of the Spanish State. And someone may say: "The counselor makes an assertion that he may or may not be right. It is a statement that is based on the opinion that the citizens manifest when the European Commission, in the framework of the different studies linked to the Eurobarometer that makes the year 2014– and it would be of great interest that this exercise is reproduced in the current–, the year 2014, 15_percent of the citizens of the Spanish State said that they believe that the law applied equally to the Spanish State for everyone, or that it is the same, 85_percent of the citizens in the Spanish State claim, when asked, that they believe that the law does not apply equally to everyone. And someone might say that a 15-per-cent isn't bad. Well, let's put it in context. The 15_per_cent means that the Spanish State, in a list of the twenty-eighth states of the European Union, is exactly in the twenty-eighth place. Therefore, the citizens of the Spanish State consider that justice does not apply, that the law does not apply equally to everyone and, therefore, to the twenty-eight states of the European Union, the Spanish State is the one in which the citizens trust less in their judicial institutions. And that, of course, should be a major concern for the Spanish State, because it is clear that a state is also configured with the confidence that its citizens have in the judiciary. And for the examples that you have told many more than we can extremate, certainly, the citizens do not trust the judiciary, they do not believe that in those questions that are not possible from the everyday life in which, as we say at the beginning, there is no doubt that the courts apply the law in the best way they know and interpret facts with a sense of justice as deep as they are able to bring, in those questions that are discussed in court and that are not in the realm of justice, but that they are in the realm of politics, the citizens have proved too often that there is an abuse of the right and that there is an abuse of the institutions, often in pursuit of political ideas, and this Parliament, unfortunately, not in the least. We have seen how few weeks ago a trial was held for having placed ballot boxes because it was intended to ask for the opinion of the people; we now see how the members of the Bureau who think what they think, so they are being pursued with quarrels of the prosecutor's office putting out the same prosecutor's office, and this I think is a serious issue and that we do not have to go through with it in any way that we have to explain it, because depending on whether a person made the door to the end of an independent person or not it deserves to be prosecuted criminally or not prosecuted criminally; this, from the democratic point of view, is a scandal, and from the legal point of view, is a senseless one. It is therefore clear that when it comes to questions related to politics, justice and the judiciary do not act properly, they do not act with the will to apply the law, but they do act with the will to use the tools of the judiciary to pursue political ideas. And these examples that we relate and others that we would find are, to be sure, examples that illustrate this statement, that it's thick, that it sounds bad, but that's the way it is. And that has an original sin, too, which is the way the judiciary organizes itself in the State. You pointed it out with some details, but it's obvious. The judiciary of the State – and when we talk about the politicization of justice is where we need to focus – it is obvious that it is a judiciary that is triage from loyalty to political parties. And that's what I'm saying as counsel for Justice, but we got it this same morning in an interview with the counterport of a diary where the representative of a professional entity of courts said that, in actual fact, in the election of persons who encapsulate the principal legal institutions of the State there is a partisan criterion behind that. And he was talking about the controversy between the big parties at the time of choosing the people to be part of the ruling organ of the courts, and he was talking about the balance between professional associations. Therefore, it is obvious, and he also said, that merit is not the criteria that is used to choose the people who are part of the governing body of the courts. In the framework of the General Council of the Judiciary, in the plenary of the General Council of the Judiciary, formed by twenty members, decisions are taken by vote, it is worth the merits of the candidates, you said, to preside over the higher courts of justice or the presidencies of the provincial hearings, it is worth the merits, but it turns out that after evaluating the merits the votes are nine to eleven. The'majority bloc', the'minority bloc' are terms used by the same members of the General Council of the Judiciary. Therefore, it is clear that if someone's merit is valued when that merit is valued, if the merit is indisputable, the vote will probably go very far to zero, not to the new system at eleven. I believe that this is indicated in the way in which it is selected, apparently by merit, but to the practice for loyalties to party positions, as the governing organ of the courts is selected. And this is a really worrying fact and, it doesn't, when he assigned them the position of the twenty-seen on the twenty-seen of the confidence of the citizens of the Spanish State in the Administration of Justice, it doesn't, done as these surely explain why. Or they also explain an area that is not the judiciary itself because the same Spanish Constitution separates it from the judiciary, which is the Constitutional Court. The Constitutional Court, which has the function of interpreting whether or not a rule is in line with the Constitution, has become an organ of practice to decide what, for example, a parliament or a member of a parliament can think or think. And that's definitely getting away from its functions. And now we see how, for example, in the area of the Senate, where the renewal of four members of this Constitutional Court is being staged, we are at the door of seeing how the People's Party and the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol arrive at a pact because they will both be triading and the others will be triading two more without looking who is triading who is not in each other's decisions. Another example that here is not the merit that comes first but that is the end, but that is the loyalty to a political party. And what is already the highest scandal, if I may be allowed to compare, is what is expected to be the new president of the Constitutional Court, a person who is sure to have many merits, sure that he is an expert in the legal field and who has a great knowledge of the matters to decide on, but among his merits there is the fact that he has been a member of the People's Party for years. I believe that in a judicial organization and in a judicial power of this nature there is more reason for concern than not for optimism. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.229.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.230.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor; let's just say I'm pretty good at leaving the issue to the Constitutional Court because it's also a point that we have to deal with in this inquiry. Especially because if the judiciary, in a Spanish wide sense, did not have, unfortunately, this legal culture of the 19th century, probably, when such important questions were raised in the Constitutional Court as the famous feeling of the State might have had a certain democratic prevention and might have had the opportunity at that time, and the interest might have been to dictate a feeling more to the Canadian style than to the Hispanic style with which we were to find ourselves, right? And now, at this point, we find ourselves in a legal situation, in democratic terms, with the very paradoxical Constitutional Court, right? And it is that the 1979 Statute is repealed because it is clear that it was repealed when the 2006 Statute was approved, that the 2006 Statute that was brought to the polls and that, in some ways, is democratically endorsed is not valid, and that, in turn, we have another statute, which is the Statute of the Constitutional Court – that is, the 2010 Statute – which is valid but which has not been democratically endorsed by anyone. So, somehow, the standards, the mark in which we have a regime is a mark that has no democratic endorsement because the democratic endorsement is given to a different mark than we have. Obviously, there is not only a question of legal culture there is a question of this partisan designation that the same councillor has appointed and that today he has converted us into a Constitutional Court which is nothing more than an extended table of the Council of Ministers of each divender, is it not? But I did want to put on the table a little reflection on this task, beyond the choice of the judges of the Constitutional Court, a little bit of the curriculum that we have made with regard to the members of the Constitutional Court. From the outset, let's say that two of the current judges of the Constitutional Court were chosen for the government directly. It is to say, both Mr. Antonio Narváez and Mr. Pedro José González-Trevijano – that this second is, let's say, a regular FAES participant – they are magistrates appointed directly by the government and, therefore, loyalty and loyalty in this sense is very clear on whose side they hold it. That there are four other magistrates– Santiago Martínez Vares, Juan Antonio Xiol Ríos, Ricardo Enrique i Juan José González Rivas – that before being members of the Constitutional Court were members of the Supreme Court, and that all four – all four! – they began their judicial career as judges during the franchise: 69, 71, 72 and 75. Therefore, there are four people who swore allegiance to Franco's rule at the time of exercising their charge of justice, and none – none – required them after any type of rectification, modification, or type, in any way, of change in their conduct. Therefore, I have no difficulty in saying, from an absolutely transparent perspective, that more than one third of the Constitutional Court is a pre-democratic judiciary. And that happens today in the Spanish State by the year 2017. Therefore, we have four magistrates who are pre-democratic judges, two magistrates directly chosen for the government; two magistrates who are directly militants of the PP, that is to say, the one who until now was president of the Constitutional Court, Mr Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, and the one who will, it seems, be, a new president of the Constitutional Court, who appointed the same councillor who had been a member of Congress for the past few years on behalf of the People's Party. This structure, therefore, of eight judgments of eleven that are in these moments directly linked to the regime, to the Franco-Judgery or to the same People's Party, is a legitimate – legitimate – organ in order to be able to discuss anything that you want to see with right, anything that you want to see with laws, anything that you want to see with democratic decisions taken by this chamber? We think we don't – we think we don't. Today we think that, together with the majority of the Chamber, we have evidence and evidence more than verifiable, we thought that on November 9, 2015, when we voted, together with the majority of the Chamber, the 1/XI Declaration, which we claim to be valid, and in its point of time we claimed that we do not recognise any legitimacy of the Constitutional Court in order to continue to evaluate, suspend, revoke, in some way, the decisions taken above all by this Parliament and, therefore, we are aware that all that is adopted for this Chamber, both in initial and in final vote, will be systematically suspected by this Constitutional Court, which is formed by Francoist and PP activists. And our question is, will the government be at the expense of this absolutely delegitimized Constitutional Court? Or will it be at the expense of the demand for a new democratic right, of the democratic legitimacy of the 27 September mandate and, therefore, will it be willing to obey only the citizens' mandate? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.231.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. There's the word "Justice Counselor."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.232.0	Thank you very much, President. So, finally, I think that it has been, this second part of the intervention, a more opportunity to insist on what you already indicated in your first intervention and, obviously, I think that from this Parliament and from any point of view we have the opportunity to explain in what terms the Spanish judicial system faces questions that do not belong to it, that belong to the political debate, so, we have to do it, we have to do it, we have to do it here and outside. Because it's obvious that under the appearance of a democratic state and right not everything goes. It is clear that the institutional abuse of institutions and an abusive interpretation of the right does not apply, for example, to prevent legitimate political debates, it does not go to prevent and not respect the opinion of citizens when they speak in elections that conform to a majority of parliaments that may not please these courts and may not please the Spanish Government, but that are absolutely legitimate. And it's in this legitimacy that they owe us. It is the citizens who have led us to this Parliament to defend a question that was absolutely clearly raised before those elections. Therefore, when the citizens of Catalonia formed a majority of this chamber and not another, they knew perfectly well what the position of each of the deputies who sat in this chamber was. And it is in this mandate that we owe and, therefore, it is this mandate that we must make worthy. And it is obvious, I said, that this explanation we have to make in and out, because it is also obvious that many of the questions that are now being discussed in the courts will end up being discussed by courts outside our borders, by European courts, by the European Court of Human Rights. We will see how in a few years' time, if these views are finally confirmed, the European Court of Human Rights will put the Spanish State in a red light, because it is clear that there is no way to coerce from an absolutely politicised court, such as the Constitutional Court, a court composed of deputies and officials and trusted persons of political parties and governments, and therefore clearly linked to a political affinity, it is clear that a court of this nature cannot prevent, cannot force, cannot prohibit a political debate. And that's exactly what the citizens of the Spanish State, of the Spanish State, should think about and react to, because the abuse that is done by the courts to try to solve questions of politics in the framework of a court that does is to wear down, day yes, day also, the credibility of justice, the credibility of the judiciary. And, therefore, the representatives of the Spanish people should have a deep, serious and honest reflection on where they are bringing the judiciary to the Spanish State; they are turning it into an extension of the executed power. And this will not only not be used to solve a question of natural politics, as it is seen in Catalonia; no judgment, no court, no court will answer a question that is natural politics, but what I'm sure you will get for the way is to put you can link the Spanish judicial system, because you're making it serve for what you don't serve. Questions that are within the sphere of enforcement and legislative power are being translated into the sphere of the judiciary. It is in parliaments, it is among governments that the political questions have to be resolved; it is not surprising that the togas of the judges of the Constitutional Court, who are doing the brute work of annulling political opinions of this Parliament, which judge people according to their ideology, not concrete facts. That, from a point of view of democratic scrupulousness, is unacceptable. We need to reflect on Catalonia, but we also need to reflect on the group of Spanish citizens. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-08-3101.233.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And we suspend the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
