ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.1.0	The session begins. Too late to all and so to all. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before starting the order of the day, I must inform you that, unfortunately, you have confirmed to us that the victim of May 20, 2017 in Llagosta was as a result of male violence. So let us know, too, that a woman and a younger woman died in Barcelona on October 1st as a result of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and of the Catalan Institute of Women, the number of victims of male violence, unfortunately, increases to seven victims. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn these crimes and express my most sincere condolences to your family and friends. So I repeat again Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to report on the current political situation]] [[350-00005/11]] The only point on the agenda is: the appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to report on the current political situation. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the House to report on the political situation, I give the word, therefore, to the very honourable President of the Generality, Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.2.0	Very nice late. Many honourable Speakers of Parliament, Vice-Presidents, Councillors, Members and Deputies, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, effectively appear on their own petition to analyse the political situation, appear in this Parliament after the results of the referendum held on October 1st and to explain the political consequences that were going on. I am aware, as surely many of you also, that today I also appear before the people of Catalonia and many other people who have attached their attention to what is now being done in this chamber. We live an exceptional moment, of historic size; its consequences and its effects go far beyond our country. And it became clear that, far from being domestic and internal, as we have often felt on the part of those who have neglected their responsibility in not wanting to know what was going on, Catalonia is a European one. Of my appearance I do not hope neither threats nor blackmails nor insults. It's a good time to be like we're all taking responsibility for the imperative need to unscrew the tension and not contribute with the word or with the gesture to increase it, on the contrary. I want to address the assembly of the people, to whom they mobilized on the 1st and 3rd of October, to whom they disbanded the protest advocate for the dialect, to whom they massively reduced themselves in defense of the unit of Spain and to whom they did not mobilize in any of these summonses; all of us, with our differences and differences, where we understand each other and where we do not understand each other, form the same people and we must continue to make our journeys, so that it is the history of the people who seek their future. We will never agree on everything, as it is obvious, but we do understand, because we have already demonstrated many times, that the way forward cannot be anything other than democracy and poverty, that it means respect for what you think is different and find how to make collective aspirations possible, with the well-being that this requires great doses of dialogue and empathy. As you can imagine, in these past few hours and days many people have addressed me suggesting what to do or not to do. All of them are legitimate, respectable, and close to a moment like this. I've thanked everyone I've been able to do that, because in every one of them, I've recognized that it's worth listening to. I have also asked for an opinion from various people who have helped me to enrich the analysis of the moment and the perspective of the future. And, therefore, I also want to thank them of all color. But, ladies and gentlemen, what I will present to you today is not a personal decision or a day of anyone: it is the result of '1 October, of the government's willingness to maintain its commitment to convene, organize and celebrate the self-determination referendum, and, of course, of the analysis of the later events that we have shared in the case of the government. Today it's time to talk about the results of October 1st in Parliament, and that's what we're gonna do. So, we're here because the day..., October 1st, Catalonia celebrated the self-determination referendum, and it did so in more than difficult, extreme conditions. It is the first time in the history of European democracies that an election day is developing in the face of violent police attacks on voters who are fighting to set up the paper. From the 8th of the morning to the time of the collège's lockdown, the police and the Civil Guard struck defenceless people and forced the emergencies to serve more than eight hundred people. They all saw it. The world also saw it, and it shattered from the images that were emerging. The object was not only to confiscate ballot boxes and papers; the object was to provoke the generalised panic and that people, seeing those images of indiscriminate violence, stayed home and renounced their right to vote. But to the political leaders of that operation they pulled out the line for the ass: 2,286,217 people beat the por, went out of the house and voted. We don't know how many they tried without success, but we do know that violently closed colleges represent a hundred and 770,000 more people. More than 2,200,000 Catalans were able to vote because they also won the vote because when they arrived at their colleges they found ballot boxes, envelopes, papers, constituted tables and a reliable and operational census. The operations and police records of the weeks prior to the search for ballot boxes and papers did not prevent the reference. The arrest of high-ranking and functioning government officials also did not prevent the referral. Telephonic escorts, people's follow-up, computer attacks, the blocking of one hundred and forty websites, and violations of correspondence also did not prevent the reference. I repeat, despite the effort and resources devoted to fighting it, when the citizens arrived at the electoral college, there were found ballot boxes, envelopes, papers, constituted tables and a reliable and operational census. I would therefore like to acknowledge all the people who made this logistical and political success possible: the volunteers who went to sleep in the schools, the citizens who kept the ballot boxes at home, the printers who printed the papers, the informatics who designed and developed the universal census system, the government workers and workers, the voters of yes and no and the vote in white; the many anonymous people who put their grenadier down to make it possible. [[Greetings.]] And above all I want to send my affection, my solidarity and my escalph to all the wrongdoers, to all the wounded and mistreated for the police operation; the images will be recorded to our memory forever, we will never forget it. To acknowledge and denounce that the performance of the State has managed to introduce tension and concern to the Catalan society. As President of Catalonia, I am well aware that at these times there are a lot of people who are worried, worried, even scared about what they are going through and what they can go through; people of all ideas, of all trends. The gratuitous rape and the decision of some companies to move their social – a decision, let me say, more for the markets than with real effects on our economy; in fact, the one that has real effects on our economy, and that does have real effects on our economy, are the 16,000_million Catalan euros that are obliged to change from their social every year (remove from the eyes and some applause), that these changes from their social every year, but well –, sense of doubt, they are made, recognize it, that they have drunk the environment. To all those people who want, I want to send them a message of understanding and empathy, and also of serenity and tranquillity: the Government of Catalonia will not deviate from its commitment to social and economic progress, democracy, dialogue, tolerance, respect for discretion and willingness to negotiate. As President I will always act responsibly and take into account the 7.5_million citizens of the country. I think at this point I'd like to explain where we are and, above all, why we are where we are. Now that a lot of people are watching us from the outside and especially today that a lot of people are escorting us from the world, I think it's worth explaining again. Since the death of the military dictator Francisco Franco, Catalonia has contributed, as much as most, to the consolidation of Spanish democracy; Catalonia has been not only the economic engine of Spain, but also a factor of modernization and stability. Catalonia believed that the Spanish Constitution of 1978 could be a good starting point to guarantee its self-government and its material progress; Catalonia was deeply involved in the operation of returning the Spanish State to the European and international institutions after forty years of isolation and self-government. The passage of the years, however, allowed us to see that the new institutional building emerges from the Transition, which in Catalonia is seen as a starting point from which to evolve towards higher levels of democracy and self-government, the hegemonic elites of the State not as a starting point but as a starting point, and, with the passage of the years, the system did not just cease to evolve in the direction desired by the people of Catalonia, but it began to evolve. In consistency with this observation, in 2005, a large majority, 88_per_cent of this Parliament – I repeat, a majority of 88_per_cent of this Parliament – followed the procedures marked for the Constitution – and, I repeat, following the procedures marked for the Constitution – approved a proposal for a new statute of autonomy and sent it to the Congress of Deputies. The Catalan proposal ended an authentic campaign of Catalanophobia, irresponsibly launched for those who then wanted to rule Spain at the price it was. The text that was ultimately subtly referring to the year 2006 was already very different from the original proposal of the Catalan Parliament, but, unfortunately, it was approved for the citizens who went to vote. Participation was 47_percent of the census, and the votes in favour of the Statute were 1,899.000. I want to point out that it is 145,000 votes less than the ones who got the yes to independence on October 1st. The State, however, did not have much to do with the first detail: in 2010, four years after the entry into force of the State, a constitutional court formed by judges who were basically chosen for the two great Spanish parties gave a feeling of infamous record that cut the State for the second time and modified the content that had already been voted for by the people in reference. It is worth recalling and underlining: despite having followed the procedures laid down in the Constitution, it is to say, despite having followed the constitutional order and the constitutional order, despite having after 88_percent of the Parliament of Catalonia and despite the popular vote in legal and granted referenda, the combined action of the Congress of Deputies and, above all, of the Constitutional Court turned the Catalan proposal into an irreconcilable text. And it's worth remembering and underlining: this unrecognizable, double-retailed, non-referendum for Catalans is the law currently in force. This has been the result of Catalonia's recent attempt to change its legal and political status for constitutional life; that is, humiliation. But that's not all. Since the ruling of the Constitutional Court against the State voted for by the people, the Spanish political system has not only not moved a single word to try to get back and repair the fallout, but has activated an aggressive and systemic re-centralisation programme. From the point of view of self-government, the last seven years have been the worst of the past forty: continued lamination of competitions through decrees, laws, judgments; carelessness and disinvestment in the basic infrastructure system of Catalonia, which are a key part of the economic progress of the country, and a minor wound to the language, culture and way of being and living in our country. All that I am explaining in condensation in a few lines has had a profound impact on Catalan society, very deep, until the point that, during this period, many citizens, of millions of citizens, have come to the rational conclusion that the only way to guarantee survival, not only of self-government, but of our values as a society, is that Catalonia is constituted in a state. The results of the later elections to the Parliament of Catalonia by giving witnesses. In addition, there has been one thing even more relevant, and it is that, in parallel to the formation of the absolute independenceist majority in Parliament, there has been a far-reaching and transversal consensus around the idea that the future of Catalonia, which was what it was, was to be decided by the Catalans democratically and peacefully, and it had to be done through a reference. In the question, in fact, more recently, of an important daily newspaper from Madrid – not from here, from Madrid – an 82_percent of Catalans expressed it this way. And well, with the objective of making this reference possible, the later years, the Catalan institutions and civil society have drawn up initial names before the Government and the Spanish institutions; it is all documented: until sometimes and in all possible formats, a dialog has been called for to agree on a reference as it was celebrated in Scotland on September 18, 2014; a reference with a date and a question agreed between the two parties, in which the two parties may campaign and explain their arguments and in which the two parties are committed to accepting and applying the result through a negotiation that protects their respective interests. If this could have been done in one of the oldest democracies, consolidated and copies of the world such as the United Kingdom, why couldn't it also be done in Spain? The response to all these initiatives has been a radical and absolute refusal; a refusal, certainly, combined with the police and judicial persecution of the Catalan authorities. Former President Artur Mas, here today, and former Councillors Joana Ortega and Irene Rigau – the Irene today also our deputy – as the former Councillor of the Presidency Francesc Homs, here too, they have all been disqualified from promoting a participatory process, not binding and without legal effects on 9 November 2014. And not only disqualified, but fined arbitrarily and abusively: if they don't have more than EUR 5 million in the Spanish Court of Auditors in a few days, all their assets will be seized and their families can see them severely affected. In addition to them, the Bureau, an important part of the Bureau of this Parliament, and drawings of municipal elected officials have been challenged to express their support for the right to decide and allow – allow – debates on the referendum. I have recalled, I repeat: there have been quarrels against the President and members of the Bureau of Parliament, why? Therefore, to allow this Parliament to debate. The latest crackdown on Catalan institutions has involved arrest and transfer to police offices of seven charges and public servants of the Government of Catalonia who had to declare emmanillates and without being informed of what was the charge against them. The world also needs to know that the leaders of the entities that have led the most massive and peaceful demonstrations of Europe's history today are accused of a crime of siege that can involve up to fifteen years in prison. Those responsible for organizing demonstrations that have won the world for its organization, for its citizenship and for its total absence of incidents. This has been the response of the Spanish State to the Catalan requests, a request that has always – always – been expressed and must be expressed peacefully and through the majority obtained in the ballot box. The people of Catalonia have been demanding for years, for many years, freedom to decide. It's very simple. And we haven't even found interlocutors in the past or we're still finding them in the present. There is no institution in the State that talks about the majority demand of this Parliament and of the Catalan society. The last hope that could remain was that the monarchy would exercise the arbitral and moderator role assigned to it by the Constitution, but last week's speech confirmed the worst of hypothesis. I would now like to address the citizens of the whole Spanish State who are following with concern what is happening in Catalonia. I want to convey to you a message of serenity and respect, of will for dialogue and political agreement, as has always been our desire and our priority. I am aware of the information that most of the media transfer to them and of what narrative has been installed, but I dare to ask them for an effort for the good of all; an effort to know and to recognize what has led us here and the reasons that have driven us. We are not criminals, we are not crazy, we are not coups, we are not abductees; we are normal people who ask to be able to vote and who have been willing to all the dialogue that was necessary to achieve this in an agreed manner. We have nothing against Spain and the Spanish, on the contrary, we want to get back together better. And that is the majority desire that exists in Catalonia, because today, for many years now, the relationship has not worked and nothing has been done to reverse a situation that has become unsustainable. And a people cannot be forced against their will to accept a status quo that they did not vote and do not want. Indeed, the Constitution is a democratic framework, but it is equally true that there is democracy beyond the Constitution. Ladies and gentlemen, with the results of the October 1st report, Catalonia has won the right to be an independent state and has won the right to be heard and respected. And I have to say, I've been being heard lately, it's already a woman, because what's happened these days in this land hadn't happened in years. And today Catalonia is escorted and respected beyond our borders. The yes to independence won an absolute majority election and two years later he won a referendum under a fucking shower. The ballot boxes, the only language we understand, the ballot boxes say yes to independence. And that's the way I'm going. As is known, the Law of the Referendum states that, two days after the official proclamation of the results, and in the event that the vote name of the yes has been greater than the vote name of the no, the Parliament – and I quote from the law, obre comets – "will hold an ordinary session to make a formal declaration of the independence of Catalonia, its effects, and agree on the origin of the process constitute. There's one before and one after October 1st. And we got what we promised to do to the legislature. Arrive at this historic moment, and as President of the Generality, I assume, to present to you the results of the reference before all of you and before our fellow citizens, the mandate of the people that Catalonia becomes an independent state in the form of a republic. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] That's what we do with all our solemnity, out of responsibility and out of respect. And, with the same solemnity, the government and I propose that Parliament suspend the effects of the declaration of independence so that in the next few weeks we take a dialog without which it is not possible to reach an agreed solution. We firmly believe that the moment calls for, not only the descalation in the tension, but above all the clear and committed will to advance in the demands of the people of Catalonia from the results of '1 October; results that we must take into account, in an essential way, in the stage of dialogue that we are prepared to open. It is well known to all of you that, from the very beginning of the reference, different initiatives of mediation, dialogue and negotiation have emerged at the national, state and international levels. Some of these are public, others are not, but they will be. They're all very serious and they were hard to imagine all just a while ago. The calls to dialogue and non-violence have been heard from all the roots of the planet. The statement made yesterday by the Nobel Group of Eight; the statement made by The Elders, to whom is the former Secretary General of the United Nations Kofi Annan and of whom are personalities of great global importance; the positions of presidents and prime ministers of European countries, of European political leaders... There is a press conference going through Europe, because Europe already feels questioned about the effects that a bad resolution of this conflict can have. All of these you deserve to be listened to and all of you, without exception, have asked us to open up a time to give the opportunity to the Spanish State dialog. You're also close to doing this, out of responsibility and respect. I'm done. And I appeal to everyone's responsibility. The citizens of Catalonia are asked to continue expressing themselves as they have done so far: with freedom and with respect for what they think differently. Businesses and economic actors are asked to continue generating wealth and not to fall into the tempt to use their power to drain the population. The political forces are asked to contribute their words and actions to lower the tension; they are also asked to do so in the communication media. And the Spanish government is asking me to listen, not to us, if he doesn't want to, but to the media, and to the international community, and to the millions of citizens, also from Spain, who ask him to renounce the repression and the imposition. And to the European Union, they ask them to apply themselves to foundations and to vote for the founding values of the Union. Today, the Government of Catalonia takes responsibility and generosity and extends its hand back to the dialect. I am convinced that if in the next few days everyone is acting with the same responsibility and fulfilling their obligations, the conflict between Catalonia and the Spanish State can be resolved in a calm and agreed manner, and respecting the will of the citizens. For us it will not remain, because we want to be faithful to our long history, to all who have suffered and sacrificed, and because we want a future worthy of our children and daughters, for all those people who want to make Catalonia their land of gathering and hope. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.3.0	Thank you very much, President. The parliamentary groups will continue to intervene. In the first place has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. Madame Arrimadas, if you need a couple of more minutes, no problem, let's wait. [[Pause.]] I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Members, Members, this has been the chronicle of an announced coup. From a coup to democracy, from a coup to the common sense, from a coup to the institution of this Parliament, from a coup to our Statute of autonomy and, above all, from a coup to a common project called « Spain and called « European Union ». But it is a chronicle of a coup announced because at last you are where you have always wanted: you have always wanted to come to the declaration of independence. They did not hold any independence referendums on their electoral agenda, because they have never wanted to be referendums or defend a referendum. You wanted to declare independence at all costs. And so, on October 1, you found the excuse, the alibi to do what you have always wanted to do, which is to declare independence. And in addition to me..., I don't know if you will deceive anyone, but for me a declaration of independence in deferred, conditioned, suspended, on time, remains a declaration of independence, remains a blow to common sense. And on October 1st... I will tell you one thing, Mr Puigdemont: no one has recognised that result because of many mistakes made by the Spanish Government. No one, outside your sphere, from your..., well, from those who share your ideology or from the media to which you either directly finance or which you have the ability to influence, has bought that October 1st is the basis for making any kind of decision. No one in Europe supports what you have just done, Mr Puigdemont. No one in Europe recognizes October 1 as any kind of independent referendum. Therefore, everyone has seen that this was not about democracy, this is about independence. And all of Europe and everyone has seen that this was not going to the polls, this is going to the borders. And at last you have taken your face off, because we, this party, have been saying for eleven years that you are nationalism, that you are from the worst, from the worst nationalism that has existed in Europe. And I'm going to give you a few examples – I'm going to give you a few examples. That is why no one in Europe supports you, Mr Puigdemont, because nationalism is the antithesis of the European project. Because the European Union, among other things, was formed to combat nationalism. Because nationalism means putting more walls, and Europe means putting more bridges. Because nationalism identifies internal and external enemies – such as Mrs Forcadell: "They are not the people of Catalonia, or Mr Turull: "They are subjects, those who do not go on October 1, or external: Spain steals from us – when in Europe they seek partners, rather than enemies. You represent the nationalism that seeks division, and Europe means union. You represent supremacism, when Europe means equality. You represent insolidity, when Europe is precisely solidarity. You are based on an exclusive identity, when Europe is based on rights and freedoms and on citizenship. And I'm going to give you several examples. I don't have much..., because when you declare independence you give the opposition groups ten_minus, so let's say what we think [[applause]] But for him to see all of Europe... [[the speaker shows a sign]] This is a poster of Convergence and Union; this is not a tweet of any councillor there, no, it is a poster of Convergence and Union that says: "Subsidized Spain lives at the cost of productive Catalonia. This is to love the Spaniards, Mr Puigdemont [[applause]] Is this about respecting the Spaniards? This? I tell you that I could speak ten_minutes with examples of your nationalism, but I especially draw attention to an article by our vice president, Mr Oriol Junqueras, in 2008. Attention – attention – « Catalans have more genetic proximity to the French than to the Spanish, more to the Italians than to the Portuguese, and a little bit to the Swiss. We continue: "While the Spaniards are more close to the Portuguese than the Catalans, and very little to the French. This is the most rancid nationalism for which the European Union was founded. This is nationalism. [[Greetings.]] They have wrong century and place, because we are in the twenty-first century, in the European Union. And you know what happens? That in the 21st century, in the European Union, all political leaders know that if they let you play your game, that if you let Spain break, this means opening the Pandora's box of Europe, that means opening up that all secessionist, nationalist, anti-European movements can have an incentive to continue with their plans. And I invite you to listen to Macron, to listen to Juncker, to listen to the former French Prime Minister, to Mr Valls, for example, Catalan, because you are alone, Mr Puigdemont. At the international level there is not a single European leader – beyond, I insist, of those who want to break Europe, who are not European leaders – to give them support in their plans. But does he know the worst of it all? It is not that you want to break Europe, Mr Puigdemont, which is serious enough. It's not that you want to break Spain. It is that you have broken the coexistence in Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont. I invite you to avoid saying every time you address the Catalans that the Catalan people are united, because they are not united at the moment, unfortunately and, above all, thanks to you. Because what you have done is to confront us, what you have done is to allow us to be pointed out, what you yourself have encouraged is that public officials who do not want to cooperate in your illegalities can be persecuted and pointed out by the street. That's what you've done, Mr. Puigdemont. [[applause and voice of the background]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You've made companies march from Catalonia. Mr. Artur Mas, who said: « Not in Marxà cap! Well, a few have gone, Mr. Mas. [[Greetings.]] You have solved it, you have solved it... It is very curious, it is very curious, because those who have complained the most about the fiscal deficit of Catalonia have already solved it, impoverishing Catalonia, impoverishing Catalans. And, by the way, check the figures a little bit, Mr Puigdemont, who is a little out of step with the fiscal deficit, who even corrects Mr Mas-Colell, who knows a little bit more economy than you – a little alone. And, above all, you have put this institution, which spent decades upholstered during a dictatorship – decades upholstered during a dictatorship –, you have put it in jeopardy, Mr Puigdemont. Catalonia's autonomy is putting you in danger. The Statute of autonomy, not the one that came out of the ruling of the Constitutional Court – by the way, the court in which Convergence has spent all its life electing the members of the Constitutional Court –, no, no, but the one voted by the Catalans, that has been sprayed by you, Mr Puigdemont. You have sprayed this Parliament, the Council for Statutory Guarantees, the Regulation of the Parliament, to the lawyers of the Parliament... You have sprayed Catalonia's autonomy with your irresponsibility. Is this the Catalonia you want, Mr Puigdemont? Really? A Catalonia in which companies have to flee to other parts of Spain? A Catalonia in which schools ask what the profession of parents is, in order to incriminate for the consequences of October 1st? [[Greetings.]] Is that the Catalonia you want? I don't want her. I don't want that Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont. I believe you have achieved one thing, and it is to awaken that silenced majority. Because it is not a silent majority, you are right, Mr Puigdemont: it is a majority silenced by you for thirty years, by your speeches, by your media, silenced. [[Greetings.]] But you think you've got the wrong strategy, because all you're going to get is to wake up, keep those millions of Catalans that we assume – we assume – a majority – a majority, because you've never had a majority to declare independence. And do you know anything else you've done? I think it has made many Spaniards remember that they live in a great country and that countries must also be taken care of. Ortega and Gasset already said: nationalism only grows in countries that do not work. Well, perhaps this is the revulsive to reform Spain, so that we all have the pride to belong to a great land, such as Catalonia, to a great country, such as Spain, and to a great political project, which is the European Union. I say one thing to you, Mr Puigdemont: but you should know that most Catalans feel Catalan, Spanish and European. [[Greetings.]] Most Catalans feel Catalan, Spanish and European. I don't know how big your heart is, but I assure you that these three identities fit into your heart. [[the speaker shows an adhesive, in color form, with Catalan, Spanish and European flags]] and some more; in my case, also Andalusian. I tell you that in most Catalan hearts there is no flag left, and we will not allow you to break our hearts to pieces, Mr Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] Because although the nationalist project is based on saying that the rest of the Spaniards are guilty, we do not consider, like you, that the rest of the Spaniards are an economic burden for the Catalans, Mr Puigdemont, we do not think so. We do not think that they are responsible for our problems; I believe that the Government of the Generalitat, one of the regions with the most self-government in Europe, is also responsible. And I'm sorry, but it's not the Catalans or the Spanish that steal us: it's the corrupt politicians, one of whom has shared the dome of the party you've been campaigning for many years. And lastly, Mr. Puigdemont, because we don't have much time left... my parents, my brothers and my nephews live in Andalusia, Mr. Puigdemont. I'm not going to let them ask for their passport to come and see me. [[the speaker shows a Spanish passport]] I'm not going to let them ask for their passport. [[Greetings.]] Because your project, Mr Puigdemont, means leaving the European Union, and all European entities have told you. You can fool a few, but most of Europe believe Mr Juncker more than Mr Junqueras; I do not know if you trust Mr Junqueras more than Mr Juncker, but most Catalans, Spanish and Europeans trust the President of the European Commission more than the Vice-President, who makes these kinds of articles, talking about the genetic differences between Catalans and Spanish. I want to tell the Catalans, most of the Catalans who do not want to stop being Catalans, Spanish and Europeans, that you are not alone, that we are going to continue to fight, that we are the majority, that this stage of silence is over and that we have a chance to win in the ballot box – in the ballot box – the future of our families and our children. We're going to win when the real ballot boxes are put in, not those where you count the votes of the same people three or four times, and you have an election board suspended. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] So they do like going to vote, but the election really scares them. Sooner or later, Mr Puigdemont, in Catalonia there will be elections, real elections, elections in which you don't name the election board a finger, elections in which you can't vote three or four times, elections in which you can't say the result you want. And when those ballot boxes are put on the street, in the real schools, those ballot boxes that you are very afraid of, but a lot, a lot – and if the votes of the Catalans were worth the same I don't tell you anymore the fear that these elections would give you –, at that time we are going to recover a new Catalonia, that will overcome this stage of thirty years of nationalism, thirty years of division, thirty years of saying that the Catalans that we are not independent are subjects, or we are not the people of Catalonia, as the President of the Parliament, Mrs Forcadell, said. A Catalonia where companies want to return, because we give them legal certainty, and a Catalonia without corruption, without 3_per_cent, without means that only listen to a part, respectable, but not to all the citizens of Catalonia. I say to all Catalans that what we are living now is not good for anyone and that we must seek dialogue, consensus and common sense. But first we must return democracy and institutional normality to Catalonia, and we believe that that will only come with more democracy, with real ballot boxes, and I say to you: we are not afraid. I repeat, Mr Puigdemont: it is not going to break our hearts in three, and most Catalans believe Catalonia is their land, Spain is their country and Europe, their future. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.5.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.6.0	Thank you, Mrs. Forcadell. President, the debates are for debate, for talking and for listening. I was now cursing because someone is writing me the textbook of what you said, to see if I got it right. You're taking on a warrant, which I'm discussing, and at the same time you're saying you're proposing to suspend a non-declaration. It's complex, but sometimes political situations are complex, and we all have to admit that, in complexity, the dialog can get harder if we don't get it right, but it also offers margins in which we have to work all the folds. You can't suspend a statement that hasn't come in. And when you say to us: "I propose to suspend..., because we would actually be coming to the limit that it is the words of the President of the Generality that give or not valid to the laws, and place us on a very, very complex land. I must say that these days I am among the distressed people you speak, who, as you have said, are people who think very differently. They are people who probably coincide in two great things: they regard themselves as their country, but they want the prosperity of their families and children. We have to serve them all well, and make sure very well. I thought that at some point you would say that following some agreements, some results, but that it is not a function that corresponds to you, because the Law of the Referendum establishes very clearly that "in the two days following the proclamation of the results by the Electoral Union will hold an ordinary session to make the formal declaration of the independence of Catalonia, its effects, and to agree on the incisiveness of the process constitute. It's not this session, or I'm getting very confused, but someone should tell us. I wanted today, with my intervention, to reiterate the warning that we have often given the socialists in this chamber, and I particularly, as the chairman of my group, that already on 9 November 2015, in the beginning of this legislature, I would tell them if they had thought well of the costs and consequences of placing the Catalan institutions outside the law. I had occasion to repeat it in the two sessions, the two investment debates, failed, by Arthur Mas; I reiterated it in his own investment debate, in the debate of the question of trust..., on many other occasions. From our point of view, the Catalan institutions were placed outside the law on the 6th and 7th of September. From our point of view – and we don't think so ourselves – they failed the Rules, raised the right of opposition, fulminated, yes, the State and violated the Constitution. For ours, between comets – and you will hear me – "quietness", it was not only our opinion: it was also the opinion of the Iletrats, of the Board of State Guarantees of Catalonia, of the Constitutional Court, and, after all, some member of his Government said: "They have not done the right thing. From this point of view and for these reasons I must say that October 1 did not celebrate the reference, linking and with guarantees to which you were compromised. Despite this, the State actually made the grave mistake of ordering or acquiring violent police actions against persons who intended to participate in that voting act, illegal or irregular, which some might consider. We were going to condemn those actions and we were going to call for the immediate withdrawal of security forces on the same morning as day 1. But I want to tell you, President, that you can't release a democratic mandate from, say, the voting act organised on the 1st. I know it's a political opinion and that, like all political opinions, it's questionable. But here we are talking, with thick terms or, if you want, very solid, democratic mandate, that you are what today wanted to pick up and get stuck. From our point of view, a vote without guarantees; even his international guests have said so. As I said, without an electoral union, for the reasons that we all know – the resignation of its members, affected by very hard resolutions of the Constitutional Court –, which I can give through that process and which I can officially proclaim its results. Therefore, from our point of view, from the point of view, from the point of view, not because you have suspended it from the rostrum, but because the subjects of the Law of the Referendum and the Law of Legal and Fundamental Transition of the Republic have not been supplemented, today we are not before what you have said. You can't suspend an agreement. You promised your job – and I quote it literally, because I know that you introduced a novelty at that time, quite exciting for any catalá, to take possession of the highest judiciary – you wanted to put in an expression that had not been used with the same formula: "with full fidelity to the people of Catalonia. Mr Puigdemont, 38,47_per_cent is not the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] With this support it is not possible to do what they wanted to do – in my original text I said ‘what I want to do; now I don't know well. You cannot finish your term of office allow a minority, large and important and respectable as it may be, to impose themselves on the majority. A 38,47_per_cent cannot be imposed on 61,53_per_cent. Almenys not in our name. And, as these days, effectively, the world looks at us, I repeat: a minority cannot impose itself on a majority, a minority cannot impose itself upon a majority, a minority cannot impose itself upon a majority, a minority cannot impose itself on a majority, a minority cannot impose itself on a majority. The desire of 2_millions cannot be imposed on 3_millions. And for this reason yesterday, from the point of view of respect, I said to him in a public act: "For patriotism you do not declare independence. For patriotism, let's tell each other the truth. The independence process, which has had, sense of doubt, some virtue – to unravel illusion, to mobilize, to make people vibrate; I will never feel, to me, to criticize this aspect, to the contrary – but objectively – and we have seen it, president, in the last few days – has divided society, polarized it. In seeking a break with the rest of Spain, it has separated us from the European Union and, at last, before materially occurring, it has generated an institutional instability, a legal insecurity that has rejected a response that says "Mr. Market," or "Market," I don't know if I can say it in plurality," in a very clear way. You said to us: "The reference will unite the Catalans, and it has not been so. You said to us: "The process will bring us closer to Europe, and it has been the opposite. You said to us: "Independence will drive us economically, and it is not true. I hope that the measures that we have known of some important financial entities and some large enterprises in the country are absolutely temporary and signify only a small gesture to ensure the legal certainty that makes it essential or that requires economic traffic in our time, but I must tell you – we would say, parallels – but many of those who left from Mont-real to Toronto have not returned. And we're very, very worried. The displacement of only decision-making centres, not to mention formal effects: the Sabadell Bank, in Alacant ; CaixaBank, in València ; Criteria, in Palma ; Gas Natural, Aigües de Barcelona, Gaesco and Cellnex, in Madrid ; MRW, in València ; Abertis, in Madrid ; Adelas, in Madrid ; Catalana Occidente, in Madrid. We're very concerned about each other. You think, President, that certainly without wanting to, you have denied it many times – and you have made yourself from this rostrum –, you are creating an uncertainty that we cannot afford. The day without knowing that it will not only increase this uncertainty. And it's uncertain for businesses, but it's also uncertain for families. These days we all know stories of the Strip, of Vinaròs, of visits, of cues to the benches, of problems with some caixers. Why? It's the result of an international conspiracy of occult powers, or it's the negit of a lot of people, a lot of good people who don't know where they're going to take us. And, as you said – and I thank him – it is the anguish of many people, independent of what you voted for. And I think someday – and today may be a good day – we need to tell each other where the problem is. Look, president, the problem is not Spanish, the problem is not Europe – and I say this – the problem is not legality, the problem is between us. On the 6th and 7th of September, fifty-two Members did not want to take part in the vote; the Law of the Referendum was approved by 71 or 72 votes in favour, and the Law of Transition, on the other hand, 72 or 71; along with two thirds that we set ourselves as the minimum limit for the reform of the State or for the adoption of an electoral regime. Why did we do that? Precisely, because we have always wanted to ensure that no decision to alter our institutional system can be taken without ensuring that you have a broad consensus on the chamber and, therefore, on society. There is a Catalan maximum old woman: « Unites, we will win; divide, be defeated! President, the division's path is a path of defeat. We've said it many times, we don't want to settle a tie, we don't want to get half more on half less; we want to look for an agreement that can claim 80 percent of Catalans. We want more self-government; we want better financing; we want to reform the State, and we all want to have the opportunity to vote in one way or another. We don't want to go back three hundred years, but neither thirty-eight nor forty. I believe that the solution to the problem that we have can only, I am afraid, be elections to Parliament that allow everyone to vote equally, with guarantees and the possibility of opting for different political projects, which can, yes, have the deep democratic legitimacy of the future. Now it's absurd for us to complain about all the consequences of acts that only our own do, and I say this with great respect for all the institutions and names that I will quote. I can't ask for responsibilities from Cultural Heritage, not membership. Nor can I ask them responsibilities to the Catalan National Assembly, not to join it. I can't go to the street and take the first one that passes or the people. I can only ask for your responsibilities, and at this difficult time, President, I ask you to say that this Parliament has not declared independence, that the Electoral Union has not proclaimed the results of the referendum, that we are not putting forward the forecasts or the Law of the referendum or the Law of Transition. And I'll end up with three flamingos. A first one that is a quote from Raimon Obiols: "Politics can serve feelings, but it is not permissible to use feelings and to excite them at the limit to deceive or deceive. A second quote is from Josep Tarradellas: "Our country is too small because it is less of its children, and too big because we understand all of them. And this quote from President Tarradellas gives me step to the final tail. We don't want to signify or destroy anyone today. All of us, in one measure or another, have been part of the problem, and all of us, if we want to, have to be part of the solution. Thank you very much, Mr. President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Next is the words of Mr.Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.8.0	Thank you, President. Very honorable, deputies, deputies, I would like to..., since we have talked about striking images that we all have in front of the retina, I would like my first words to be to send a strong embrace to the German people of Valencia, that yesterday, October 9, was the victim of a violent attack on the part of feixist groups who were shut down in the city, before the passivity – not to say the connivance – of the police and the delegation of the Spanish Government. [[Greetings.]] I think, President, that the feeling is unanimous, and shared by this chamber, that we are living a crucial moment, and, in a sense of doubt, especially – I recognize it –, especially difficult for you, President, to make important decisions – you have had to take them today – that mark the future of the country. It's a moment that requires a lot of courage, and today, more than ever, courage is meant to be a responsibility. It is not time to listen to those who think that as worse, better; it is time, more quickly, to look ahead to reality and to hear that the courage required by our society, its welfare, the progress of its self-government, its freedoms, is the courage of the dialogue. I want to understand that the announcement you made to us, in the sense of suspending the effects of..., of what you consider the first October mandate, to give way to the dialog, is an opportunity because this can not be opened. And in this sense, truly, we chair, greet, and thank them, these words that you have heard. We think that this heart of the dialect is what demanded the past disabate – thousands of people asked for it – in the Cibeles and in the Plaça de Sant Jaume, in Zaragoza, in Malaga, in Burgos, as in the places of our villas. "We wanted to talk, they shouted in Madrid, and they shouted in català. And we're still conscious: we're in the middle of a deep state crisis. You haven't made reference, President, to the hardest of the transition years. The Catalan question has, in reality, been a Spanish problem: the Spanish problem. And Spain is now in front of the miracle of its plurinational reality. For years now, the traditional Spanish right, embodied by the PP, has tried to govern since the anti-ticatalanism – you too in ugly terms – by pushing the campaign against the State; by promoting the disastrous judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010; by summating, in short, the institutional balances of the last decades. And so we have come to this point, until now, until this first October when the Rajoy government, after ignoring with knowledge the discontent and longings of the Catalan society, ended a brutal police intervention, which has shocked the country and which has also affected the international public opinion. And we have come to the King's threatening speech; a speech that has placed the crown as a light institution and not as an arbiter, and ending it in the state crisis. Everyone recognizes it, Europe is watching us besieged by the scenes and the new time of politics that opened this first of October. The first of October – we are the first to recognize it – has been a formidable civic mobilization, and all a demonstration of the strength of sovereignism. You're indisputable. And it's indisputable that this option, nor is it alone, as Rajoy expected, cannot be undone by the state's comeback. From the first of October many things are taken away, very important. The extent of the mobilization where independence and non-independence have been found, and even people who did not even think about voting and who went to the electoral colleges to see the images of police charges, are going away the desire of so many people to decide the future of the country, their attitude worthy of the performance of the Government of the State, are going away all this, and much more! But in no case do we think – and in this we disagree, President – there is a democratic mandate to unilaterally proclaim Catalonia's independence. From a good start, the '1 October call did not bring together the democratic guarantees required, because this was an acceptable reference. Nor was it, in its planning, a proposal that was truly inclusive of all Catalan society. The way in which the laws of the referendum and of transition were adopted on September 6 and 7, was to say, violating the rights of the opposition and dividing the Parliament between two counterpossible legalities, foreshadowed many things that have happened during these days at a dizzying pace. But the very development of '1 October, in which the judicial and police intervention prevented it from being complicated until and all the precepts laid down for the same Law of the referendum, the fact that neither the Electoral Union has been able to proclaim the results that, beyond the pre-violence study, no one in Europe nor elsewhere, nor only the observers who came to attend the day, can consider 1 October as a valid referendum, and still less as a referendum that allows for a decision to be so transcendent – so transcendent – as the independence of Catalonia. And it's that the path of unilaterality is impractical. A DUI would, in our view, constitute a grave error and a dangerous flight forward, because it did not legalize, legitimize or force to take this step. It is obvious that the European Chancellor's office would recognise this statement. But, on top of everything, a unilateral declaration could install – and it is the greatest danger – a deep division in the very nature of Catalan society, beginning to separate sectors that, in this new political time, still have or have camp to search for folds. And that's a lot harder – all the gravity it has – than the runaway of banks and corporations, which at last have no country or flag, all its negative impacts and the alarm they are raising. When the right arose to decide, when a legal and agreed reference was claimed, when it called for the defence of civil rights, freedoms and Catalan institutions, as was the case on the 3rd of October vacancy day, we saw a broad, broad-based mobilization of the social majority. Even more so: the voice of these majorities has become audible to the democratic forces of state arrest that arouse sympathy and solidarity. We saw this a few weeks ago in Zaragoza in the presence of hundreds of mayors and deputies, in favor of a negotiated settlement of the conflict. We ask you not to spoil this enormous potential of struggle and solidarity. Every time he wanted to pull for the right, sobriety has lost social influence. We believe that we can run away – that we can run away – definitively, because it has done us a lot of harm, of those simple reports that identify the movement for independence with a mythical and uniform people, adorned with all the virtues before an obscure and irreformable Spain. There is a social and democratic Spain with which we share the same dreams. Perhaps we haven't added up to what point the simplistic speeches, these speeches to which reference is made, which have perhaps served to excite the convinced, have turned the scene and been misunderstood by a substantial part of Catalan society, a part which has maintained strong emotional, familiar and all kinds of ties with Spain, and which is not intended to separate. From this point of view it would be a hard mistake to miss – I think I recognize you that you haven't made it – the event of the past diumenge. I am grateful to you, President, that you have had the reflection you have had in the sense of recognizing that it is not only a manifestation on the part of the Catalan society, but that the Catalan society is characterized by this diversity and by this plurality. Let no one deceive himself, from this point of view, in counting buses coming from outside, nor advise that contenting himself or comforting himself with the always execrable presence of groups of extreme right, to lose sight that there was a demonstration of strength from an important part of our society. As you know, we as a political force, as a political space, are supporters of other approaches, from the wave of October 3 to demonstrations in favor of the dialogue, passing for the defense of the people's right to express their opinion that of October 1. But we are still strong here too, let us not ignore the reality, there is no conflict between two homogeneous nations, we must stop brandishing, once and for all, the term 'unionist' in order to disqualify everything that we do not like. We don't have to do anything but face-to-face moons that we'd never want to see come to our house. It must have the courage to put an end to this dynamic of action and reaction that has characterized the last few times, because it has not come out of winners and losers. That's why we're not tired of demanding that it's talking, that it's dialogue to avoid a bump that could have bad consequences. I've made myself clear and unambiguated. We do not accept the recourse to Article 155, nor the intervention measures against the self-government of Catalonia that Mr Rajoy seems to be in a hurry to deploy. We do not want a state of exception in Catalonia – and we have made it clear to Mr Rajoy – that we will not accompany him in any way against the Catalan freedoms, invoke what he invokes, we do not. Still the other way around. You know he'll always find us face to face. And we think that all the forces of this chamber – and we go to the socialist companies – should have such a decisive attitude as this. It is not possible to combine the dialog entries and announce a possible back-up to Article 155. But at the same time we give it to you, President, that it is not possible or impossible to get out of this situation if we get on the path of a unilateral declaration. First of all, because he was holding the people's unit that maybe a few days from now we'll have to be back on the street defending against our differences the Government of Catalonia. Dialeg, Dialeg and Dialeg. Dialeg – we think – and at the time a reference such as lime, covenant, legal, inclusive, recognizable, with full guarantees. We are more convinced than ever that, in the end, this is the only way forward and that we can give the word to the citizenry. And that we have said many times, it is perfectly possible in the framework of the current legal order, it is a question of political will. Look, there are already many political forces and the wishes of the State that defend with us a consultation agreed for Catalonia, or that speak of the need for a profound constitutional reform, a reform that both the social demands of the years of austerity of a band, as the current territorial crisis have definitely put on the agenda. Decidedly the movement of the tectonic plates of our society brings us to a new political time. With real threats – and I think they're planning on everyone's mind – but also – also – with transformative potential. The momentum of the Catalan society has always been decisive in the achievement of any democratic tape, here and there. That is why it is urgent to recommend its cohesion that we consider in peril today. I want to claim, in order to end, at this difficult time, the integration tradition of popular Catalanism. When, from the left, we have claimed Catalonia as a people's sun, we have never done so by invoking any kind of uniformity, quite the contrary, we have done so and we will do so again by defending the coexistence of millions of men and women, born here and coming from prison, by defending a country project based on respect, which celebrates and combines the diversity of its people, who in a sense of shared identity and a factor of progress. Catalonia's major social and democratic breakthroughs have sunk under this lesson of brotherhood and popular Catalanism has never stopped fighting the whole storm of Catalonia's cantonalization. I look – I'm finished –, we say that now by all means, by any other means that can be on the table, and even more urgently than the debate on a few elections, it is a matter of prolonging the conflict and, above all, of not exacerbating it. That is why we firmly oppose the threats of these days that have not stopped raining since Madrid by the Rajoy government. And now we ask the government to do everything in its power to put up with the confrontation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, And I hope that today's statement is read, from today, from you, president, as this will, as a gesture in this sense. Seeking contacts, gestures of distension, seeking to facilitate the mediations that both unions, colleges, venous movements are claiming, sincere and concrete initiations to start the dialog. Here's the bravery we need at these times. It's not time for high-sounding statements, we think, with no legal effects and no possibility of exit. For our society and for democracy in all of Spain, too, we need to make this effort. Yesterday our friend and old company Joan Herrera greeted the example of the mayors of Madrid and Barcelona, Manuela Carmena and Ada Colau, welcoming their initiative just to put at the center all the will and all the need of the country the dialect. And I think I was right when I said that it's brave time and brave today I mean dialeg. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.10.0	Madam President... "It has been an unprecedented case of dementia of a public power. It was reserved for our country, for this unfortunate Catalonia, the sad luck of seeing a legitimate government organize by living force a general stop, keep the forty-eight hours and, finally, try to turn it into an attempt of revolutionary subversion, without feet or head, in collaboration with all kinds of enemies of the social order and the radiated verborea and gramophone discs. Oh, those men! Catalonia may well cry out to you, from the bottom of its present prostration, after the tremendous fall: "What have you done with the treasure of trust that my people once laid in you? What did you do with my autonomy? What have you done with me? " If it were not for the semantics of the time, we could affirm that this text extracted from the editorial of La Vanguardia on Tuesday, October 9, 1934, describes with enormous accuracy the facts that are happening, happening, today, eighty_y__three years later, in the also sad Catalonia. Ladies and Mr Puigdemont, and Junqueras, a few months ago I asked you here also at what point in the history of Catalonia radicality and rupture had improved the living conditions of Catalans. Your silence had an answer from me; that answer was: "Never. And today I add: « Nor will he do it in 2017. A majority of Catalans and, let's say, also of the rest of Spanish and Europeans are seeing astonishment how the Government of the Generalitat is carrying out a coup d'état, a subversive act that seeks to overthrow the democratic institutions of this country. We are not just talking about supplanting a democratic or legitimate legality; we are talking about overthrowing the rule of law by a pre-revolutionary process; in short, the explosion of the Constitution i de l'Estatut d'autonomie. But, let us be clear, what it is also about is to force us to renounce that part of what we are, to demand that we discard our feelings as if it were incompatible to feel very Catalan and deeply Spanish. Ladies and gentlemen, for many years it has been transmitted as an asset of this society that the independenceist debate did not generate conflict in Catalan society, that there were no problems on the street; it was assumed naturally that the tension caused by the Government and the separatist organizations, perfectly enlarged and cast out by the public media of the Generalitat, did not affect the coexistence of the Catalan people. That was his great sign: exemplary coexistence. And it may have been true for a while, but it was because in the streets of Catalonia only one voice was heard: the voice of one thought; a uniform thought that has allowed the President of the Generalitat and all of you to have the daring to speak on behalf of all Catalans, of a populous sun. Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, today the unique thought and silence have ended in Catalonia. The excess, the saturation and the offenses have turned against them. Since last Sunday they will no longer be able to speak on behalf of all Catalans; they have achieved something that seemed impossible only a month ago: to awaken that majority of Catalans who for many years have had to endure their contempt and humiliation in silence and with the complicity of some who now appear scandalously. But you know what? You have achieved the most difficult thing: to create a great wave, to create a tsunami of solidarity throughout Spain in favour of the Catalans, whom you have been trying to make us invisible for so long. You have invested time and large amounts of effort in erasing that part of Catalonia that just doesn't exist for you. We've taken it upon ourselves to reason. A new and noble sense of rebellion has been awakened in Catalonia: Catalonia, forgotten by nationalism, is no longer silent and is no longer afraid. Mr Puigdemont, I wanted to break Spain and all you have achieved is to awaken a positive feeling towards it. Last Sunday we were 1_million men and women in Barcelona who said enough to their excesses; 1_million voices we shout yes to coexistence [[applause]] , yes to live in peace, yes to the plurality that is expressed in a different and varied way in the different fields of activity proper to a modern and dynamic society; in short, yes to democracy and yes to freedom. The men and women who participated in this demonstration – a manifestation that was a civic rebellion – we did not do it only to defend a legal reality or a state in a concept..., pure political concept; we raised the voice to give visibility to a feeling of belonging, to a great project as a nation that is Spain. [[Greetings.]] Spain, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, is not an artificial occurrence or invention, not gentlemen; we are the oldest nation in Europe, and you can have the complete certainty that neither you nor Mr Junqueras are going to change it, on the contrary, you are strengthening us. We have experienced a new stream of solidarity and support from all corners of this country towards the Catalans who also feel Spanish. And that support from our compatriots, ladies and gentlemen, is called a nation. [[Greetings.]] Not so long ago..., not so long ago the Catalan economy made a big bet for internationalization and to deal with the effects of the economic crisis; the tourist sector itself believed that it had experienced the worst when the storms had passed, but the reality of the events is surpassing any pessimistic prediction. Since the 1st of October there has been a flight of big companies and corporations looking for the rest of Spain the stability and the certainty that today does not exist in Catalonia. Thus, you can count for hundreds of small and medium-sized enterprises that are following the steps of the large economic and financial transatlantics, and cancellations in tourism have not been successful. In the words of the Nobel laureate Vargas Llosa, banks and businesses are moving from Catalonia as if it were a medieval city beset by pesta. That's sad. What a pity! The level of disclaimer that Catalan institutions are patenting is not established before any sector: institutions in rebellion, disobedience, insubmission to the law, public communication means that have converted them into an instrument of agitation on the one hand of the population against the other and against the constitutional order. But surely the worst situation is that the Squad Mosses are living, which deserves a more detailed analysis. The Government of Catalonia has managed in a few weeks to deepen social credibility and confidence in the justice of the Mossos. And for that reason I want to say it in Spanish, so that I understand all of Spain. My appreciation to the judges and prosecutors for their hard work in defending and enforcing the law; to the majority of agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra who are excellent professionals and who feel in their privacy the professional shame of being used by the Government of the Generalitat even against their own comrades of the National Police Corps and the Civil Guard, to whom I also want to transfer our support and warmth from Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Everyone: you can count on us. Mr Puigdemont, you have spoken on several occasions about dialogue. And I want to tell you, Mr Puigdemont, yes to dialogue, that we are in favour of that dialogue. Now, Mr Puigdemont, let us make it clear: what do you really want us to talk about? How do we fly national sovereignty? , whether that burst of national sovereignty is done in two, four or eight months? You, Mr Puigdemont, claim that President Mariano Rajoy sits at a table to talk about, that dialogue about how and when Catalans are going to stop being Spanish. Is that what President Mariano Rajoy wants to talk about? Let's be a little serious. Make proposals that can be accepted from the point of view of legality and from the point of view of respect for the rules of coexistence. Now, Mr Puigdemont, half inks, neither ambiguities, nor half maliciously intentional words are no longer worth it. The game of semantic pirouettes is no longer acceptable or possible. The rule of law and democracy are not going to allow any independent state in the form of a republic in Catalonia. Neither with his statement of present, nor in stages, nor by delay. Have I explained myself very clearly, Mr Puigdemont? There will be no independent republic of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] The rule of law won't allow it. You intend to declare that republic independent..., the truth, has not been very clear to us, since they are playing the clock and the confusion, if they have declared it today, it will be tomorrow or next month, based on a referendum that no one has recognized nor any international authority has validated. That referendum has had only one effect, and one very clear effect: that thousands of Catalans of all kinds and conditions are taking their savings out of Catalonia, worried about the uncertainty that you are creating. And the public threats of its CUP partners warning that in the event of independence an economic corralito will be applied in Catalonia. Mr. Puigdemont, you still have a chance in the replica. Don't miss it. Announce that it renounces to break Catalonia from the rest of Spain. We cannot continue to live in institutional instability for one more minute. Give up the blow to the democratic state and do yourself one last favor to you and the people of Catalonia: do not drag us irremediably to put the Catalan institutions at serious risk. From the responsibility and from the common sense, Catalonia and Spain, Mr Puigdemont, cannot follow any more _minutes installed in this legal, economic, institutional, political and social insecurity. It will come a day when we all remember with shame this black period, in which we will criticize those who started society in two. The day will come, Mr Puigdemont, when many of you will deny that you have been part of this segregation process. That day is closer than you think. That day there will be a government for all Catalans. Catalonia will again be the land of prestige, progress and prosperity and freedom. Ladies and gentlemen, visca Catalunya and live Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.11.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Next, there is the word "Mrs. Gabriel", in representation of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. But I'm telling you, this group... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So I don't do anything to them. [[relays]] They say no. There's the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.12.0	It takes a lot of good time for everyone I am here, but especially all the people who today are in the places of different peoples, different barrels, the people who accompanied us to the doors of an unusually strangely armored Ciutadella... And, it is true, the President was about to make the point that we today had prepared an intervention in which we intervened the two deputies of the UPC, an absolutely choral intervention and that, moreover, we had predicted in different languages, because we understood that today's plenary is precisely a plenary that is being televised and broadcast from the world. There are millions of people who are hanging from what's going on in this room today. We have done, or thought, an intervention to be taken to the world, a world that we know is diverse, a world that we know is very unequal, a world that has states that defend human rights and others that are justly exponent of the opposite, a world that lives on a daily basis, a world of wars, but also a world of resistance. A world that, despite all this, follows what is happening in this little raccoon of the Mediterranean. And this was the intervention that we liked to do, an intervention that continued what we understood to be the solemn proclamation of the Catalan Republic, because we believe – we believe – that today it was precisely this: to proclaim solemnly the Catalan Republic. And we may have missed a chance – and we may have – because we believe that the only effective instrument of this country's civil and political rights is the Catalan Republic. And we believe that the only possible means of negotiation with the Spanish State is the Catalan Republic. We want to make reference and make reference to the fact that the proclamation of the Catalan Republic directly interferes with the legitimacy of that republic that the Faixists took from us, that Second Republic that was the flag of rights and freedoms. We would like to explain to the world that the Constitution of 1978, this strange Spanish Constitution, the only one in the European context that is proclaimed and sanctioned in a context of violence of the extreme right, and that there is no longer so much as 20_percent of the living population that you have had the opportunity to vote... We would like to explain this strange Constitutional Court, that at the same time doing what other constitutional courts do in other parts of the world, always makes a narrow and little harmonised reading of individual and collective rights. We would have wanted to explain to the world that we were delighted to be able to make a reference as it was to Quebec or Scotland, but that, in change, we had to make a reference under police and military occupation. We believe that the Republic is an expression of self-protection of rights, at a time when we have seen that, like never before, it is over the dark; that we are, as ever, recovering rights and respecting freedom of press; that we need, as ever, to end censorship in our streets; that we need, as ever, that institutions are no longer being attacked, that elected officials are being threatened, that they are massively vulnerable to civil rights, that there can be no more than nine hundred injured people to be able to vote. A republic that knows that, in addition to that, it is thirsty, not for one state and for all its powers, but for an extreme right that, in the last few days, has been untangled and unpunished in the streets. We saw it on the streets of Barcelona, but we also saw it on the streets of Palma and especially yesterday, and with great pain, in the city of València. A huge hug to all the companies that yesterday supported the fight of dignity against the broken violence of the extreme right. We can offer Europe this, this is the humble contribution that we can make to Europe, a republic that is built with the recovery of civil and political rights. A republic that is built because everyone cares, but I don't hate it, I don't give it, I don't give it xenophobia. A refugee republic, a republic that continues spai d'accollida, a republic against racism, against social exclusion, against war. An internationalist republic, too, because we are independent without borders and because we want to strengthen our ties with the peoples of the State and because we have and will maintain friendship and family ties within the State. A republic that is a democratizing process itself, because from the exercise of the right to self-determination progresses in making possible other exercises of political, cultural, economic and social rights. But this solemn proclamation of the Republic certainly did not come as we would have liked, and we knew little about it before we started the Plena. And that's why we have to improvise this other intervention. And we do so because we can't shut up before these suspensive effects of this proclamation of results. And we did it because we're not a major actor in the history of this country; it's the people, and we got here, thanks and from the people's hand. Of many people who have decided to build a new country; of the people who have put the body in front of fascist practices and of the violence and persecution of the State; of the people who have shown that they can fill places; of the elects who have disobeyed the threats of the Spanish judiciary; of all those people who have decided to plant themselves in front of this authoritarian State. Before that, before all these people who are aware that the way of achieving freedom is the way of disobedience to the authoritarianism of the Spanish State, we cannot suspend the effects of nothing. In fact, it is said that the effects are suspended so that we do not go to mediation and negotiation. Negotiation and mediation, with whom? With a Spanish state that's still threatening us and chasing us? A Spanish state that deploys without shame police and military forces armed with the territory, that serves the techniques of terror, that allows the action of the extreme right to the streets? That Spanish state that denies us basic and fundamental civil and political rights? We would love to talk about mediation and dialogue, because we would like and we would love to think that the Spanish State leaves, abandons this line of threats, suspensions and judicialization of a conflict that is democratic. We would love to be able to address this democratic conflict from a real and sincere mediation _mark, in absence of violence, recognize the results of '1 October. Between the same, which means between two actors that each of them has scrupulous respect for civil and political rights, also to the right to self-determination. And it is that we stand firm in this objective and resolve and do not come here to show the morals of defeat, on the contrary, we reaffirm ourselves in the will to break the chain of 78, to carry out the result of '1 October, because we want to walk towards an institutional economic system, of rights and freedoms that you do not inherit from Francoism, a system that I ceased to amnesiate to torturers. We want to continue walking towards a class and genera liberation. We don't want to be mere fishes in a playground where our lives only count if they're not vicudes in fullness. We don't want to be submissive, we want to be free and organized. We have come to make a republic, open to the world and, above all, to those people who are in the vicinity of refuge. We have come to build a republic, which perhaps makes it for the powerful, but which, in change, holds hopes of the most simple people of this country. We've come to make a republic on the streets and work on the phone for everyone. We have come to make a feminist republic, because it is the only answer to equality, in diversity. We want a republic that draws a new map of international relations that are not written from power and money, but from fraternal alliance with peoples and resistance. A republic that cares for everyone, but where I hate it, xenophobia, and racism doesn't fit in. Neither we nor a lot of people, we don't think about giving up. Today there is no defeat that is worth, today we start a new stage of struggle, because today we can no longer suspend the effects of the will of more than 2 million people. The deputies of this Parliament are believed to defend the republic and we will do so face the world, open to the world, and above all – and above all – alongside those people who bring a new world to their hearts. It will be at the expense of them that we will continue to fight for the republic. Fancy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.13.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Then there's the word Mr. Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.14.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, have told me from the Bureau that I have a minute; therefore, I will only give five pendulums, five messages. The first one. We said it on the 6th and 7th of September, but we say it again: we will always defend the right to decide on the people of Catalonia and the people of Aran-Occitania, meaning more limits – meaning more limits – than respect for the rights of the people. Second. The Catalan people exercised this right massively and peacefully on October 1, despite all the obstacles. In this sense, we also want to show solidarity, as others have done that preceded me in the use of the word, with all the injuries that there was on the 1st of October as a result of some attacks by some members of the security bodies of the State. Third. The outcome of the reference was clear. I don't admit any kind of discussion. Fourth. We will always defend the democratic will of Catalans and Catalans. Logically, and as the President has said, and, in fact, as the Law of the Referendum says, from the dialog; if so, we can add, through third parties. A dialect, however, that should not only go to the State or to the European Union – that is what the Law of the Referendum says – but that the dialogue should begin here, at our home, in this Parliament, in Catalan civil society. Finally, the situation is difficult and, therefore, we will not put any more pressure on the Catalan institutions and, therefore, we will be on the side of this Parliament, of the totality of the Parliament, and we will be on the side of the Government, 100_per_cent, and we will be with you, President, on the side of you. Thank you all, and thank you all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Next is the words of Mr Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.16.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, President Mas, Presidents Rigol and Benach, well, first of all, one thing is clear: we assume the results of '1 October. And, as we assume and bind the results of October 1, I want to read back to what Article 4.4 of the Referendum Law provides. What do we take? That, if in the recount of the valid votes cast there is more assertive than negatius, the result implies the independence of Catalonia. Point. And we assume that an absolute majority of this today's chamber, and therefore we assume that we will pull forward on this basis; that I have made it clear to everyone that he has manifested doubts since this Faristol. We don't care that you give this reference to a law, observers, a union. Better if you've been there. And we don't need a plethora either. What does it give you that's valid? They give the fourteen detainees valid that there was on September 20th. A record for Josep Maria Jové, Lluís Salvado and the other twelve companies [[applause]] That for political reasons they were stopped. They give us valid seven hundred mayors and mayors who were quoted to state how they were investigated, simply, because a prosecutor took this crap from defending democracy. The nine hundred wounded, with names and surnames, not a 0.03_per_cent that the prosecution said was respect to the one they had suffered..., those who had gone to vote. What a lack of touch, what a lack of respect for all and every one of the nine hundred people, but also for the 7_million_i_mig of Catalans that we are not accustomed to violence, that we are not accustomed to seeing these scenes and that have been affected, all Catalans – sure that you too, sure that you, that did not support the reference –, with this free rape of the Spanish State, with this rape of going to harm because yes. And, therefore, this also supports us at the time of making this statement that we are making today. They also give validity to the people who made the referendum their own, who defended the ballot boxes and the electoral councils with their own bodies. This gives validity to this reference and to these results. The directors of the schools, of the AMPA..., the cure with which it was done the whole electoral process, Mrs. Arrimadas; I would probably have liked you to have gone to an electoral college and seen the organization that carried the people they were going to occupy. I wouldn't look at them in the eye telling them what he said to them today, that they had cheated. I'm sure they couldn't stand their eyes. [[Greetings.]] And above all, it gives it validity to the social cohesion that it generated in all those people who lived with joy and patience on October 1st and that generated a cohesion that we could hardly have achieved if the Spanish State had not attacked us in this way. The Spanish State has been looking for ballot boxes, masters, and now for statements. And what should be asked and the problem they have is that democracy and esteem for a common project are not imposed with violence. They have not seen as a good part of the citizens of this country, of Catalonia, we no longer want to be Spanish, we are no longer Spanish. For the way to look for ballot boxes, to look for papers, to look for statements, what they haven't seen is that the people were 'they didn't' run away. The law also determines, apart from the statement, the initiation of the process constitute. And the process is the beginning of the 3rd of October, with the sophistication that there was in our country. There were independence people and non-independence people, unions, businesses, entities, people who didn't go to vote on the 1st. Above all, there was a willingness to make a new thing, to make a new state, to flee as soon as possible better from the Spanish State that had shown us all its strength on October 1. And on the 3rd of October we started the constituent process, say a law or say a decision of this Parliament, started the people directly. Before we go in and analyze the effects and the proposal made to us by the president, I think today is also the day to say that we will never forget it. We will never forget some prosecutions and prosecutions that have worked at the PP government's service to hurt Catalonia, chasing the citizens for their ideology, prevaricating, misrepresenting resources and leaping upon the rights of the people. [[Applauds]] - No, no, no, A government of the PP that has served, in a muddy way, the instruments it has as a state, since the Catalan operation and until today, that has not stopped to do so. Why? Because you're incapable of doing politics. They didn't want to do politics. A national police and a civilian guard who have invaded us with evil physical iron; it is not a matter of commands or political directives. I recommend that they watch the videos one time and another. There were people who went to hurt for free, individual people. I'm not saying that all the civilian guards and all the national police are doing this, which is saying that a lot of those who went to get our people, were doing it because they wanted to do it wrong – because they wanted to do it wrong. [[Some applause.]] Nor will we ever forget – nor will we ever forget – the disappointing intervention of the king of Spain, who stood in favour of a few Spaniards; but, above all, against the majority of Catalans. However, we will never forget it, but about hatred, about resentment, about revenge is not built any political project nor can we build any state or republic. And so, we'll look forward, we'll look forward to building a state where everyone cares, where everyone feels good in fear and democracy. And I'm headed to what they gave support to the diumenge demonstration, which there were many Catalans and Catalans. We want to do this country with them too, we want to share this path with them. And I'm heading to the game, precisely, that they gave there support, because what you can't do is lie, Mrs. Arrimadas. This country has seen seven years of peaceful demonstrations and crowds as they haven't seen each other anywhere in the world. This country, in Barcelona, was the largest demonstration in Europe in solidarity for refugees. In this country, the Council of Europe tells him that Catalonia is a model of linguistic coexistence, as well as the lies that you, Ciutadans, have said since their creation. In this country too, there were 1,570 000 pupils at school and there were only fifty complaints. Mrs. Arrimadas, you read the Law of the Referendum and the Law of Transition, it will not be a passport, but it is not a passport to the Schengen area either. [[Greetings.]] And the better – the better – you didn't want Catalans and Catalans voting without... This is the dividing line, Mr. Iceta, Mr. Albiol... [[Widow's remorse.]] Let me talk to you, please? Education is first, and respect it. [[Widow's remorse.]] We've been very quiet listening to your intervention. Let me talk to you, please? [[Pause.]] The most important thing is that we want to give sight to the people, to everyone, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people, to the people who abstain, to all who go to vote. And that's the difference: we won't let it happen in the future... in the Catalan Republic, we won't let anyone who decides things, when someone doesn't agree, doesn't follow the ballot box, but there are cops who beat us up and reprimand us. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Iceta, I also hope that in the new country, I agree, in this new country, things should be better. And I hope that in this country all these IBEX companies that have gone out of business, in the accounts of reacting because they lower the actions of their companies, react when their citizens are stunned and their citizens' basic and fundamental rights are violated. And that's what we're going to have to achieve among all of us. Mr. Iceta, on the 6th and 7th, we didn't... we didn't do anything bad. I mean, it's just... [[Funnel veils]] I simply remind you that you, the People's Party and Citizens, when we wanted to make a joint statement with all the guarantees to speak precisely of this, you brought it to the Constitutional. And the Constitutional, thanks to you, thanks to the PP and thanks to Ciutadans, decided that we could never talk more about anything here. That it could not speak, simply debate, about this. And it was you who carried him, Mr. Iceta. The guarantees also of the unique reading that we wanted to do, nor do we thank them for their intervention. Well, let's go to the side of the effects: process constitutes, declaration..., the effects. Obviously, what we want is that we can apply the results of October 1st. And that is full-contained to the Law of Transition, full-contained to the Republic. And the media seems to be a good way. The dial looks like it's a good way, and we'll bet on it. We'll bet basically because we think we have to have the biggest consensus here in Catalonia as well. And, therefore, all those who say they're on hand if we talk – gentlemen of the PSC, gentlemen of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, with all its diversity... –, let's hope they're on our side. We need its strength and, therefore, we expect it to follow. But, above all, the mediation we want, u, because the Government of the State does politics and, two, because the Government of the State ceased to serve judicial and police violence to act against Catalonia. I'm done. We had three options today. First, do not recognize the results the people voted for. Or, quite simply, subterre here to a vote, after which the people had already voted, therefore, would be absurd. That's not our option. Second, respect them and apply the Law of Transition without dialogue, at this time and in these circumstances. We also discard it, because we believe that the best option at this time is to take the results, make them binding, bet for the republic, bet for the independence of Catalonia, but as we have done at all stages of the process, extend our hand to everyone so that we can fill the republic with content. And that's our option. And, President, all this movement started with the people. And the people would put us in place, that we didn't fail them. And then we did all these two years of process, with the Law of Transition, the Law of Referendum, with many difficulties and very risky political stakes. And people asked us to do it, and we did it. And then we put people back together because on day 1 people didn't fail us. And people on day 1 didn't fail us. He gave us an example of defending democracy and defending the country's future. Now, President, on the other hand, we trust you with this proposal that you brought us today. You've got it all, president, and who's bought the most, who's given the most face, and we're right next to you. All right, all right, Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-10-4301.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Corominas. Thank you very much, all of you. The session's up.
