ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.1.0	Very good morning to all of you. [[Question to the Government on the quality of the area]] [[300-00188/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the quality of the area presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.2.0	Madam President, Mr Councillor, deputies, deputies, good morning. Congresswoman Marta Moreta, Osona's breathing is calm, because all the stations are in green at this time of morning. [[Rialles.]] That said, Counselor, it is the second time that the questioner, in this legislature, for the quality of the area. I do so because the better quality of the area is, in the sense of doubt, one of the main environmental challenges to which we face in this first quarter of a century and which highlights the need for that all on paper we agree – or the majority – that we can move towards a low carbon model, based on net energy sources. But we have the feeling, counselor, that we do not move forward; that we make many summits, many meetings, but that we do not just make it concrete, eh? Miri, the last episode of contamination has no longer exclusively affected the municipalities of the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona or the municipalities declared special protection zones. The problems of the tropospheric ozone have affected all of Catalonia. If we have analyzed, the next fifteen days, all the automatic stations we have, which are the ones we can consult online, we have seen that from Manlleu, passing by Vic, by Tona, by Tarragona, by Montseny, by Sort, by Bellver, by Alcover, by Vilafranca del Penedès..., to give examples – I will not quote them all – we have therefore found that the problem of ozo, mostly or less intense, has occurred throughout Catalonia. And the episodes of ozo know why they are produced. It's all part of the same circle, huh? : Nitrogen oxides, volatile compounds, which are produced for fuel cream, for gas lines, for natural gas, eh? That they're the necessary precursors, aren't they? , because it is produced ozo. Metropolitan areas, high concentrations of nitrogen oxide. In Barcelona, produced for vehicles, for ships, for industries; in Tarragona, for example, for petrochemical twists, which work at all times in times of great insolation. I, therefore, in one part of the territory there are emissions which are then transformed into ozo in other parts of the territory. In the area of the Plana de Vic, this is a persistent problem. The Generalitat has been passing points on this question for years, when it does not omit it directly from public policies. From our point of view, it is a neglect that is periling the salvation of thousands of Catalans. And we are also concerned because economic recovery, which is an obvious fact, is increasing traffic rates, and also, logically, is increasing the percentages of nitrogen oxide and PM10 particles at measuring stations. In the middle of February, the European Commission launched what seems to be the latest latest warnings, warnings, to five great countries of the European Union – among them, Spain, and, obviously, Catalonia – because from this year 2017 the measures are already being taken not to exceed the limits set by Community legislation. The problem is very difficult, I don't have to say: 3,500 premature deaths every year due to contamination, and not just in Barcelona Metropolitan Area, it's like, a hundred times more than traffic accidents, huh? We are reducing the life expectancy of many Catalans and Catalans. We are also affecting their quality of life, and this time I cannot be reminded to the chamber that cardiovascular and cerebrovascular diseases are the most common causes– an 80_per_cent, approximately– of premature deaths attributable to contamination, followed by respiratory diseases and lung cancer. We also have studies that indicate that it can have negative effects on fertility, pregnancy and the development of infants and infants, and it is a lost – also found – of economic competitiveness. But if we are able to reduce contamination, this has a direct effect on public spending, too, and on national comptability. Not only about public expenditure or public assumptions, but about the conjunction of national competence: lower admissions to hospitals, lower admissions to primary care centres, lower prescription of medicines, less work absenteeism, less school absenteeism. And you can say to me, quite rightly: "The European Union is demanding that we complete and take action quickly, but they also fail, because they have approved, in laboratories, tests for the emission of contaminants which, afterward, do not come with actual emissions. I want to remember the Volkswagen case, don't I? , dieselgate. We also have doubts about the actual emissions of the park circulating in Catalonia. And we recognize it to the Government, as we also recognize it to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, to the Assembly of Barcelona or to the dissette municipalities of the Eastern Valley with its capital, Granollers, to the next, the follow-up of the minute of the problem, but it is costing more than the account, from our point of view, to give the step of the analysis to the action. It's necessary, once and for all, to make plans. To agree on plans, yes, but then to make decrees, and, above all, to compromise economic resources in the presupposition. They are necessary, we believe, more than ever, comprehensive communication and awareness plans to avoid failures and challenges with the experience of Barcelona's low-emission zone, because actions cannot be improvised to get a headline. We can't take a step back and forth. And, for the purpose of restricting the circulation of more polluting vehicles, counsel, will, from our point of view, have a more precise definition of the affected vehicles or of the days or times of this measure, when it is effective, because, if not, we are creating uncertainties. Because the uncertainty is there, and I can manage it before later to avoid negative reactions, actions of this type, when to take, and arrange the fact that we can limit the circulation of vehicles in certain hours. We will have to decide whether this restriction affects vehicles entering the metropolitan area or also vehicles coming from the metropolitan area to other territorial areas of Catalonia. We repeat it again today: the tax that has been created in the past The tax on CO2 emissions is not a tax that weighs the most pollution, it is not an environmental tax, from this point of view; it is a tax recaptator, which weighs the mere tenancy of the vehicle. We think that it should be used, as they have designed, to encourage the replacement of vehicles for net vehicles and not for other programmes, which are obviously laudable, but which have to be financed with other instruments. What we need, counselor, is an environmental tax law. But we're going back to mobility. We can't ask them, from our point of view, to the citizen... well, we'll have to ask them, but we can't ask them to leave the vehicle home when public transport is saturated. Public transportation to the hours ends up being saturated. Today, there are a number of taxi drivers, taking the metro – which is already complicated, in certain hours – or the raffles to enter Barcelona is converted into an adventure or a very clear discomfort for the public transport user. We need new and better infrastructure, counselor, that allows more frequency, and even know how to manage labor conflicts properly to avoid some of the things that happen to us, huh? Finally, in this first intervention we would also want to analyze us, from your point of view, as the work of the Pedralbes summit has advanced. The question we asked him at the beginning of this year was before this summit was produced, where various administrations took part, not only in the metropolitan area, but in the conjunction of Catalonia, and we want to know what the results are, how they are progressing, because, as I said to the engineer, we believe that this was slower than it would be necessary. Because if the results of this summit are just the announcement that you made last week, last week, of lowering tolls for some net vehicles, which are a very small part of the mobile park we have in Catalonia, we believe that the results are disappointing and leaking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.4.0	Many thanks, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Terrades. Mr. MP, we share the analysis with regard to the seriousness of the issue. This is a question that you ask all of us in a very direct, very intense way. And so it's obvious that we need to make decisions and we need to move from theory to practice, we need to move from gesticulation to operation, and this is the goal that was set for this legislature by President Puigdemont's government, and we have deployed a whole package of operational and tangible measures. The first element on which we worked was that of governance. Until this legislature, what we had had was an uncoordinated juxtaposition of various early girls from good faith, sometimes with a certain level of improvisation, on the part of the various public administrations asked especially in the area of Barcelona. The Barcelona Assembly explained its package of measures; the metropolitan area, some regional councils, some groups of assemblies..., but very often these were measures that hinder in contradiction with themselves, and, in the best of cases, once separated did not have the ability to transform reality into reality. And, therefore, the first obsession that we have had – and we believe that we have not come out reasonably well – is to put all the actors in agreement on a work platform, on a full shared route. And that's what we got at the Pedralbes Cemetery. He said: "It is a set of minimums. Home, it is a set of minimums but it has concrete dates, concrete actions, and, therefore, regulatory translation, legislative translation. You mean basically that. What is the object of the quantity point of view? For the next five years, our goal is to reduce NOx and PM10 emissions by 10_per_cent to gradually achieve the levels recommended for the World Health Organization. And, on the other hand, the compromise is to reduce the emissions linked to the traffic within 15 years by a 30_per_cent, in one_second. These are the two quantifiable and, therefore, evaluable files. You said: "We have seen that they do not move forward. Home, we've set a date. It is the first time that a date is fixed with concrete measures of restriction of transit in this special protection zone, this 40-fold around Barcelona, that we detect that, although at the PM10 particle level the trend has been good, at the NOx level we are exceeding the limits established by the European Union. I'll make parentheses. There is someone who has criticized the measures we have taken to be too severe. Home, do we agree or do we not agree to complete those forecasts of the European Union? Do we agree or do we not agree that this is a problem that you ask us, in the measure that directly affects the salvation of people? There is, therefore, sometimes a feeling that those who embrace European and European policies more enthusiastically question whether we apply them. And, for another band, the European Union has also fixed, let's say..., it has assigned us directly, to the Spanish State and to Catalonia, not to be completed. Therefore, we have a date, and a very concrete date: from the 1st of September of Enguany will restrict the transit to registered vans before the 1st of October of 94 and to tourists registered before the 1st of September of 97 to those carts, let us say, that they are of ownership, as regards the deployment of the police, of the Generalitat de Catalunya in situations of environmental episode. And then, from the '1 of generation of 2019, the restriction, this restriction of these vehicles, will have a stable character, will have a permanent, structural character. Why did we want to plant it in biphasic terms? Basically to be able to see if those measures in relation to the affected vehicles and in relation to the alternatives that we give, public transport, let's say, are sustainable or not, whether they are effective measures, and, for another band, if we can get push policies and pull policies, at the level of public transport, to work: push policies, which are to remove that most polluting mobility, and pull policies, to bring the maximum number of users to public transport. That's what we're up to. Why? Because in this topic what we need is that every measure we take has a high level of understanding and complicity on the part of the citizens. It is clear that we must take action, and we are at risk and willing to continue to take action, but the Government's determination at the time of action must also be accompanied by an important level of complicity on the part of the citizens. I'm working on a parenthesis. Remember, when did it start to set that limit of 80 kilometers per hour in earlier times? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, I like that you're paying attention to the... all right. In that first phase, it was not possible to explain adequately to the citizen why he was ugly and what concrete results he had, and he changed the layout and chose a variable speed layout that was much more relevant. Why? Because it explained what concrete results were obtained. With the initial approach, of the eighty with general character, the results were not achieved and an important level of complicity of the people was not achieved. With the second approach, which was more detailed, more sophisticated, if I may, it was achieved that there was a level of complicity on the part of the citizens; it was more understanding. We want to do exactly the same thing. What do we say to the government? And it is very important that you help us, not just the Socialist Group, but the conjunction of the chamber: every time we make a measure of restriction, we must be able to give a powerful alternative from a public transport point of view. And this is the accompanying part. What concrete measures have we put in place? We have proposed an extraordinary reinforcement of certain public transport routes, especially line 1 and line 5, with character, let's say, structural, in these cases– first, in cases of episodes, and then, with permanent character –; all a strategy of improving accessibility through segregated trolleys, buses-VAO, some with solid infrastructure, and others, for example, in relation to B-23, in these concrete cases, through a specifically created lane with a position of consciousness that allows us, let's say, to have much more capacity to enter. We have created a specific title, from the Authority of Transport Metropolità, which is the Environmental Episode, which allows, at the price of T-10, those punctual users who cannot use these vehicles have the ability, let's say, to improve their entry and exit access. We have also put in place an important package of timetable changes that respect large businesses. We started with the Government of Catalonia, and this has already been granted: in cases of episodes – and then we will give it a permanent character –, modify the access times and exits of the work places precisely to decongest the peak hours, to allow the entry and exit to the work places to be made in public transport with greater capacity. If we manage that instead of going in from eight to nine, in certain cases we can go in again to god, we can not strengthen in that concrete period more elements of public transport, because with what we already have the capacity to manage it. I, from a point of view, let's say, taxation, from a point of view tax, man, the Accompanying Law approved a CO2 tax that will allow us to create a fund to renew the fleet of the most polluting vehicles. So, those vehicles that... why have we decided these older vehicles? Because they're the ones we've believed to contaminate the most, and so we started here. Obviously, we must continue to set a policy that is very directly linked to the diesel, but the objective, I insist, is: every time we make a limitation, we give it an alternative. And from this perspective, we have the resources to be able to make a solvent and powerful renewal of the fleet. On the second part of the intervention I will already detail in a more specific way which are the measures so as to deploy the agreements of Pedralbes, but I have explained to him some elements, with general character, that they believe that the Government of Catalonia has gone from the phase of gesticulation and theorization to the phase of realization with dates, with concepts and with specific questions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.5.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.6.0	Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.7.0	There's the word Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.8.0	Look, counselor, from the first quality plate of the air that his government, with the president But then with President Puigdemont, implanted, we already told him that I was suffering from an original sin: that they would all rely on voluntarism. Looks like we've given it a step further, huh? , and I agree with the principles of the new protocols that you have submitted. I mean, we can't trust voluntarism to plant for contamination, can we? At the time of acting in the best quality of the area, it is the key – and it was also in the previous inquiry – the role of the sum. And the sum implies working in a coordinated way and with a firm leadership, which, from our point of view, correspond to the Generalitat de Catalunya and the Councillor of Territories and Sustainability. And you said, "We had news of how the plaque we presented at the Pedralbes Cemetery was unfolded. So, look, we're looking forward to it, because we're also getting reservations from all the other agents who are interacting on these issues, and they're a little skeptical on this leadership paper that's for the government and on this summation paper. We believe that there must be clear standards, clear protocols, and a horizon of presuppostarial resources, for the proper years, known; not only stated in the plan, but concrete in the presupposition of the Government of Catalonia, as other local administrations are already doing and concrete in their annual presuppositions. Because this priority policy that you say we have does not just appreciate, and, listen, during the year 2016 7.5_million Catalans and Catalans at one time or another we breathed contaminated air. To combat the contamination of the assumed area, from our point of view, apply structural changes in transport and industrial policy. Traffic restriction, obviously; this has to be done in some way, not just stating it in a plan. Someone will have to sign a decree that says: "These vehicles, these materials, in episodes of contamination will not be able to enter or will not be able to leave the metropolitan area, they will have to stay home. And, therefore, someone will have to put down the signature. And, listen, you have given me an example that I also wanted to set: we need structural actions that replace the current quality plan of the area, which has been shown, as we already gave to the engineer, that has not worked. And we all know, because all the experts have told us, that speed limitation on high-capacity lives is an effective measure. And you said to us, "No, it's just that the previous government didn't do it right because it didn't do pedagogy, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, if I still remember the interventions of Mr. Felipe Puig, when he was at the opposition, from this same Faristol, making educational policy, sensitisation, this measure. I'm sorry, I'm going back to Parliament, huh? What did you do? The first one they did was load up this measure, when they got to the government. I propose another thing: if we already know that this is an effective measure, let's apply it, not in periods of contamination – not in periods of contamination – ; let's limit the speed to the highways and highways of the country in the context of conflict, which we have all detected them. And we will accompany you, to this extent; we will not bid on this Faristol to put Councillor Rull and the Government to heat, if they take these measures, as you did when you were in opposition. And, besides, we have a deficit, from our point of view, information. The example of the "dieselgate" used to be before them, didn't it? But now I'll give you an example of the measuring stations we have in Catalonia. We do not share that the automatic stations of measure we have..., each station measuring different elements. Listen, ozo, nitrogen oxides and PM10 particles should be measured automatically. Plus, we think we need to change manual metering stations for auto stations across the country. And I add it more: there are other volatile elements that are at risk that deserve to be analyzed – like benzene, benzopyrea, or the others, huh? , the fifteen and five that are measured – in an automatic way and known to everyone, in order to be able to make decisions respect this theme. I'm running out of time, and I'm taking advantage of these seven_seconds that I'm left with to tell you that the times are worrying; traffic times, energy consumption times. And, compared to the measurements of May 2016 stations – I finish, president – with May 2017 stations, we observe that nitrogen dioxides and PM10 particles have gone all the way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.10.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, let's start a bit, very quickly, with the speed limitation measure. Obviously, there are areas where this is produced with a permanent character, but the error that was made at the time – and we still consider it to be a mistake – was to try, let's say, to prevent congestion episodes with a linear measure, and the variable speed was believed to be much more effective, much more solvent, much more effective. And this [[Funnel veils]] ...Yes, yes, yes, exact, and when there are fewer retentions, there is less contamination. And so, when things aren't planted well because they don't give good arguments, what is generated is the rebound effect. And we, in this case, what we want is – and this has been a basic layout of the Air Quality Table – that for every measure that we have on the table, we have to give it alternatives; every measure we have to be able to explain it well, giving it these alternatives, and explaining who are the direct consequences of these measures that we apply. Because if he didn't complicit on the part of the citizens, then it'll be very difficult for us to get out. Is it volunteering? No, no, no; it is to take measures that will be translated into the Official Diary of the Government of Catalonia, but obviously with this capacity for transformation. Now we're just detailing the protocol. This July we will have this protocol, with all the concrete elements: to which cars it affects, of which time we are talking. We have already made a proposal: from dilons to sayings, from seven in the morning to eight in the evening, and the divenders, from seven to three in the evening. We've come up with this, now we've just got to agree. It'll come out with a formal character. And what are we doing? First, the actions to be carried out for each of the administrations for each alert level and their coordination; the first element that will be reflected in this protocol. Second, the mechanisms for the activation of public transport reinforcement measures by the various operators, with the coordination of the Metropolity Transport Authority; second question. Third, this effective implementation of the specific transport title to capture new travelers in environmental episodes. Fourth, communication channels and messages between all affected institutions and coordination of communication with the population. These are the four elements that will be on the table and that will be displayed with the highest level of detail so that the 1st of disembarkation is done with all the consequences. Obviously, we continue to work with other elements that we believe are elements emitted from these PM10 and NOx particles, obviously in the industrial sphere. You've talked about the ozone before. Just acting in the area of Barcelona, in the measure that ozó is a secondary contaminant that is formed from NOx, nitrogen oxides, working well in the area of Barcelona, we are able to reverse..., a positive action in the joint of the country. And from a public transport point of view, the bet this government is making is very powerful. That is to say, the purchase of fifteen new trains to the line of the Vallès de Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat de Catalunya – 130_million euros –..., this is a very powerful bet. Now, on July 20th, we will inaugurate three nine railway stations from the Generalitat to Sabadell. Perhaps it is one of the most important measures in the fight against pollution and climate change and air pollution. Reactivating the operation of new stations on line 10 of the metro – we have not spoken in this very Parliament – or the request for this credit to the European Investment Bank in order to be able to finish, by the end, line 9 of the metro; the creation of this green target, initially driven by the metropolitan area, but welcomed by the rest of the administrations, to gradually withdraw those vehicles that are more old, more polluting. This is an ingenious package of measurements. He said: "They have no presupposition. Home, when we approve this CO2 tax that will serve us to renew the fleet in relation to climate change and air pollution, what do we have? That your parliamentary group votes against it. And we are talking about an important replenishment of resources, between 70 and 80 million euros, half of which went to policies precisely linked to climate change, fleet renewal, which means benefits from a point of view of atmospheric contamination. I'm done, Madam President. Fixed in what terms the following motion was planted a year ago and fixed in the highest level of compliment of that subsequent motion. Because our will is: all these measures, make them as consensual as possible. Only from the consensus, in this strategic question, can we change the state of things, and change it into a position. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.11.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Asking the Government about school segregation]] [[300-00186/11]] The point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on school segregation, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. The purpose of this inquiry and its subsequent motion is not to reiterate what other inquiries and motions from other parliamentary groups have already made in this legislature specifically on the subject of school segregation or, more recently, on the subject of school equity. Its main purpose is to complement them or to enter into debate and focus on the responsibilities and contributions of the school system in the reproduction of social segregation processes at home and in their possible reversal; it is to say, as our educational policies should combat school segregation but so as to contribute to the fight against social segregation, and, more generally, against the system of reproduction of social inequalities in our country. He will advise, we know that we do not only think and talk about two different educational models and in certain contrasting aspects – often with reference: our differences about the LEC, for example, are obvious and manifest – but we also believe that we are talking about different and sometimes confrontational models of society. Indeed, the model of society on which his Government's policies are based, from our point of view, including the educational ones..., assume social inequalities as inevitable and even as necessary for the development of society, attesa, from our point of view, his obedience or his reference to neoliberal capitalism, of a neo-Darwinist sense. The inequality and competition as a motor of progress in are some of the fundamental principles, of this ideology – not ours, huh? In this sense, the reproduction of inequality, both globally and locally, is a prerequisite for the development of capitalist society, and public policies, of course, are coherent and consistent with these objectives. Certainly, some social-Christian and social-democratic influences, added to the recommendations of the social engineering to maintain the stability and reproduction of the system, make these public policies assume the role of controlling and managing inequalities at bearable and manageable levels – we could also say even at homeostatistics – in the framework of a modern and liberal society – of which today man says, sometimes, "advanced" – with levels of social conflict that are not disrupted and with the guarantee of reproduction of the workforce that at each time claims the market and under the conditions of qualification and obedience that it requires at each time. In this machinery of social control, when the educational and labor system fails, then the rescue mechanisms from the social service system arrive, and, if even all these fail, in the last instance the repressive system intervenes, under the general idea of citizenship and coexistence, through hygieneist actions in public space – we see it every day – public policies and, finally, penitentiaries, which are for that reason. School segregation forms part of this system of reproduction of inequality, as well as job insecurity, combined with other taxes of work – which also contribute to it –, inequality between men and women, the housing market and urban gentrification, and inequalities in health care, among others. And, starting to point out questions, say: does your government have, for example, a plan to rebalance and compensate, from the school system, the processes of social gentrification and accelerated increase in inequalities that the housing market is generating to our cities? Because this is an accelerated and exponential process, and therefore, if we do not have an extremely strong and interventionist action, we can already go, that society will go segregating at a rate that the school system will not be able to compensate. Therefore, we must espavilar, say, in this matter. According to this approach, in this question we will not talk primarily about school outcomes or centres of special complexity – which also – but rather about how the Catalan school system helps to minimize or increase social segregation and inequalities. In this sense, our hypothesis, counsel – and this is what we want to discuss with you – is that the Catalan education system currently does not only continue to generate school segregation processes, but, as a result, contributes and participates in the processes of reproduction of social inequalities. I'll give you some examples and some reflections that come from this hypothesis. Specially complex schools, for example, with the specific programs and resources that are today's object, are a model that obviously helps to improve the school outcomes of some students – it is true – and their isolation from compulsory education, but, for example, they have not yet proved to be guarantors of equity in access to post-compulsory education, and, above all, they reproduce social segregation by their tendency to homogenize the precarious social profiles of the student. On the other hand, all available studies indicate – and it has been done in this room recently – that the school results in the territories where these centers are located are frankly inferior compared to the other territories with the most benevolent population. The current policy of autonomy of centres, for example– according to the question–, beyond some innovative and quality pedagogical experiences– unquestionably–, involves that our educational system has five scales, from our point of view: centres of special complexity, common public centres– the most frequent–, innovative public centres but with special requirements of involvement and responsibility of families at the level of quotas and participation, concerted centres and private centres, and the school population is clearly distributed according to a social class pattern in these centres. School segregation, social segregation and reproduction of social inequalities are perfectly guaranteed in the shields that the system needs to function reasonably. Despite the debate on equity in terms of results, the reproductive machinery of the unequal society and of classes efficiently and efficiently. We could follow with other examples – I will not enlarge –: the report of the Greuges Synod shows the increase in school segregation the last decade in Catalonia. And, to reverse the situation, it seems that 48_percent of the foreign primary and 39_percent of the secondary would have to be accepted in interclass schools, that they would also win, for their band, in diversity and improve the results thanks to the effect of the greater diversity of the student living in the same school space. Reversing segregation in the education system and reducing abandonment with the increase of post-compulsory titles are, for example, also two objectives that interact and complement each other. At the same time, they raise the general level of skills and recover the pool of talents that is lost because of the system's unfairness, while distributing educational opportunities among groups and social classes with more equality. School planning should be used at these times, for example, also to predict an increase in secondary education and to guarantee sufficient public places to distribute the school education in centres with cultural, social and economic diversity, instead of grouping them in homogeneous centres, and we hardly think that the current planning is deepening the social borders of our home, although it would be desirable to do so. In this context, we consider that the right to elect a centre on the part of families systematically reproduces social segregation through endemic and structural processes of social segregation. We, on the other hand, consider that, over freedom of choice in the centre, there is the right to equal and equitable education. School segregation in Catalonia is even higher than urban segregation per barrel, and is not limited to the duality between public and concerted, but also affects the internal segregation of the public sector. Our conclusion, Counselor, is that the Catalan education system is not a model that prioritizes the fight against the reproduction of social inequalities, or does not do so with sufficient strength, with a purpose that is sufficiently compromised with this objective, but rather that, by means of school segregation, it participates in the machinery of this reproduction with the mission of regulating it in functional terms, according to the requirements of the market and of the social order. And, at the other end of the system, you have, counsel, your government – following with questions – political, for example, to fight the main ghettos of our education system – like, for example, the Pedralbes area in Barcelona, we have the highest social homogeneity in our country or elite schools and that secrete by sex – so that the students of these ghettos are barging with students from other social classes and cultures? We fear that we will not – we fear that we will –, which is a confirmation of our main hypothesis: we have a system with gold gabs on Pedralbes and wire gabs on the special complexity centers in other places, but what we cannot achieve, because we believe that it is not in the objectives and is not very firm in this sense, is to create a school system in which these populations can enjoy the enormous educational and social learning that would involve sharing school space. We'll talk about it later, in the reply. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.13.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm starting with one of the points you made at the end. I honestly do not believe that in Catalonia, our schools are gabile – on the contrary – neither of bars, nor of gold, nor of anything else, but actually our schools, in this country..., the schools and institutes, if one thing is really that instrument that is giving more educational and future opportunities and dignity to all and every person. Moreover, we just need to look at the educational history of our country: if Catalonia has had a tool to fight against inequalities, if Catalonia has had a tool for everyone's progress, this was the school. I'd like to have a discussion about the model of society and the model of the economic system; I don't think it's close to me in the short time I've had. Besides, I'm always in favour of going to concrete policies, and therefore the great ideas – that people already have to know who the models of each school are – in which they have to go concretely is in which policies a government does to be able to prove that what you say, therefore, is really due to the end. Therefore, I will explain to you, without taking refuge, so, some of the questions that you have asked me afterwards..., what I will do is explain to you all those policies that we do to fight against educational segregation and for the balanced distribution of the students. Also tell him that this is a subject that has many features, that it is not just the education, but that starts, also, from an urban segregation, and that, moreover, it has many territorial peculiarities that after, in any case, we can see. This is a subject we are concerned about, but it also concerns us, like the department, that we have done specific activities, especially in the past few years, and that we can then share. And after the presentation of the syndicate's report, the later report that the union made, we agreed, we met and we were working together– you know, too, because your party attended the first meeting–..., we were working with all the agents who are part of the education system– department, together, the different municipal associations, the federations of fathers and seas, the parliamentary groups, like the goddesses–, and, with a multilateral job, what we intend is to find different actions that we can do. As he saw at that meeting, this does not have a simple solution – there is no country in Europe that has found the solution to this – and, moreover, there is much more to it, too, of the education system. In Catalonia, all this coincides with a complex demographic moment. He knows very well that there has been a great davalada of P3, and we have just taken advantage of this davalada to make active policies for the distribution of the student. But this is also after a time when Catalonia has rejected a large name or a large number of families coming from outside; in fact, Catalonia is the country of the world, as far as size is concerned, which has rejected proportionally more people from outside in such a short period of time. And that has impacted the centers – and we have to be able to say – obviously how it impacted urbanism, the economy, social services and health services. I think it is also important to take into account what is the social and demographic situation in our country in order to find the most appropriate actions. With regard to the syndic's report, I would like to point out a few points of that report. First of all, the report states that segregation is not something excluded – as you said – or, more accurately, it is not something that emanates from the education system, but that the education system that is found is with segregation situations that can be reflected more or less, and what needs to be done is working to reduce this segregation. It also says that the main differences are not so much between titles, but between the same titles. And he's also talking about getting old for this more equitable department of the student and also preserving the rights of families to be able to choose the center based on their educational criteria and the existing offer. Miri, I'd like to name you all these measures we're doing to fight this unbalanced distribution or this segregation. Course 16-17, which we did, was a set of criteria applicable to all the centres. We had a great deal of P3, and what we determined was what five objective criteria we could apply in all the centers. As you know, the offer was scheduled to run..., P3 to 25 and ESO to 30; therefore, it is not certain that we are – not because you said it, huh? – about ration, as has been said more than once. We reduced the rates in those centres to high-complexity environments, worked in ways to avoid stigmatization of schools to disadvantaged environments, and we grew old for the continuity of all the smaller centres and to give the maximum, also, opportunity to families. But course 17-18 we have taken a step further, and we have, as you know, made an agreement between the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities so as to find a common framework for school programming that is for this course 17-18, but it also serves for the owners. And the goal was to respond to the need for schooling, to guarantee the right to education for everyone, to harmonize it with individual and family rights, but also to ensure adequate and balanced schooling of students with specific educational support needs. This is the first time that it's happened, and this is important. Because, look, if you see the syndic's report, you'll see that there are great differences in Catalonia depending on the municipalities. That's to say, it doesn't just happen in a certain type of municipality – because they're big, because they're small... –, and even the whole syndic indicates that it doesn't have to do with the percentage of immigrant population there is in that municipality, because there are municipalities with a high immigration rate and, in change, where there is a good student distribution with special educational needs. Therefore, here there must be a good co-responsibility of all the municipalities. And that's why we set these criteria: criteria that refer to P3, for example, with the continuity of all centers; specific points for equity and the socio-cultural balance of the population to avoid the increase in the stigmatization of centers – and that's what we signed up to all –; giving the information needed to families so that they have all the opportunities during the pre-registration process, etc., and also to ESO, in the same sense. Once we signed this, we also introduced novelties into the pre-registration process. In the resolution, nine measures were also taken for the better distribution of the student, which are concrete, for example, in the fact that the lists of hope have been made aware not only of the requests that have been requested in the first option, but also of all those that have been requested in the second and third options. Therefore, this gives much more transparency and possibilities. Also at the beginning of the course, the centres must inform all the pre-registration process – therefore, publish a new list with new students as a result of this process – and they must intensify all control measures to detect the fraud. And not only that: in the end, we also established common criteria for all admission guarantee commissions. As I said, the union report also tells us that there are great differences between municipalities. So, what we did is we gathered the school guarantee commissions and saw who were the good practices, the reference practices, huh? , to achieve a balanced distribution of the student with special educational needs in order to promote the integration of the student with specific educational needs in all centres. And that meant orientations before the pre-registration process – now I don't have time to read it there – during the pre-registration process and after the pre-registration and registration process. In addition to all these measures of the past course, we are sure from this course that they will give fruit to the length, and also know that we have action and are involved in the labor group of the union of weights. Let him know that when the syndic speaks that for seven or eight years the different distribution or the bad distribution that there has been..., he must know that, of all these measures that we have applied, its result will come to a long end. Why? Because when we talk about primary schools, we're talking about three years and six years; so, new years of schooling. When the measurements start working, so, the first three years... until it's not all the school or the whole town or the whole cycle has passed, it's obvious that it's hard to see better. But I have to say that there is, that this is a topic in which, although it is true that we do not share a social model or an educational model or an economic model, what we do share is that school – go, I think – is the best tool to compensate for inequalities and to give training and decent work opportunities. And that is why I wanted to explain to him, rather than do this debate, so the different measures that we are convinced will give good results. In any case, if not, that's also what the syndic says in his report. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.16.0	Thank you, President. It will, effectively, consider – in this we agree – that the education system is a fundamental pillar for intervening in society and transforming it into more positive objectives, obviously. And precisely because of this, we still want to highlight especially two areas of reproduction of school segregation through the different conditions of schooling that exist at these times in our school system: the costs of schooling, for one band, and the educational project of the centre, for another. For what it does to the costs of schooling, it should be noted that the existence of differentiated quotas in the centres clearly marks a possible mark of school sort by the socially less favoured families and selects, indirectly or directly, both the potential demand and the social composition of the different centres. It is important to remember that this growing diversification of the offer is produced in a context in which not all families have the same opportunities to sort school. It means that these inequalities are all very related to the social composition of the centres. Centres with a favourable social composition, with a general character, tend to have more resources coming from the quotas paid by families, more social capital, more identification of the school community with the centre, etc. Families with more ability to sort, which also have more cultural and economic capital and generally develop more informed and complex school choice strategies, select centres depending on the quality of the educational project or the direction or teacher or social composition, among others. Here you are the spiral or one of the spiral engines of school segregation reproduction. On the other hand, according to the available studies, we observe that school segregation is lower in those municipalities without a concerted school and in those with unification of districts or areas where the concerted one has to be strictly governed by more consistent public criteria that favor the heterogeneity of the alumni, and therefore make less necessary the centers homogeneous and of special complexity. And, already in the line of the young man, we want to point out to him some ideas or some questions that after we look to develop in a more concrete way in the next one, and that go in this line of trying to influence the education system so as to reverse this function that we consider that it is not able to compensate for the process of reproduction of social inequality so as to make it truly a system that, avoiding school segregation, contributes in a decisive way to overcoming social inequalities. First of all, to make it clear that raising the level of skills, universalizing basic levels, achieving results that allow the student's conjunction to form into equal conditions and opportunities compensating for inequalities and enhancing the development of their abilities over their social, gene or procedural condition, and through interclassic mixed centres, must be a fundamental objective of the system. In the second place, invest up to the 6_per_cent predicted by the LEC from first childhood to upper secondary with universal and free coverage, and establish us longitudinal mechanisms for monitoring and supporting success in educational transitions until obtaining post-compulsory qualifications with a zero-three free offer as well as increasing the offer of public and free vocational training. Thirdly, we believe that it is necessary to ensure that students of low social and economic origin can develop in conditions of equality across the entire education cycle and that the same levels of knowledge, skills, opportunities and social promotion as the rest of the school population can be achieved. In this sense, the tendency should not be the proliferation of elite ghettos or rather of high complexity, but the distribution of the school population in educational centres that place diversity in all its reality and complexity. And all this, counsel, from our point of view – and it is the fourth and final reflection that will inspire our youth – requires a process of disconcerting the education system to ensure equality in resources and in the quality of educational centres throughout the territory, social heterogeneity of pupils, positive discrimination in those most disadvantaged communities and territories, and, all in all, through a unified and universal education system of high quality for everyone. And, obviously, we are completely in agreement with you – and this will also be a reason to approach the motion –: this requires an inter-departmental, cross-cutting approach. This cannot be solved only from the education system. I call a firm government action. This must be a strategic goal of a country, which has a cross-cutting political, inter-departmental policy, with a strong commitment to the government's joint venture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. It has the word Constellera Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.18.0	Thank you, President. I will focus on these four areas that you have said. In the first place, the costs of schooling. Look, we have a problem in Catalonia that's really resourceful, and it's true that compulsory education in Catalonia isn't all free yet. We have to recognize that the day that you have really freed it, so this problem will disappear. And in that, obviously, we have a lot of different positions. You say, "Listen to me, be disconcerting everything, and therefore she will be free, and I say to her, "No, listen to me, we pay what we have to pay, really, because all the places of compulsory education are free, because at this point it is not, and therefore this will be a problem solved. Now, I'm also telling you, with all due respect, that I don't think I'm disconcerting the problem, because the syndic's same report says that 80 percent of segregation is explained by differences between centers of the same title. Therefore, the problem is not that there are different ownerships, but that, between the same ownership, it is explained, in an 80_per_cent, that is where there are most differences. So, even though we swallowed this part, according to you, of the system, we would still have the same problem we have right now. We are giving additional resources to the centers that need more just to work for equity. For what you're saying about autonomy... I think this is a topic that I don't know if we'll have enough time, but, look, the autonomy of centers is an opportunity to re-evaluate the educational projects of socially less prestigious or disadvantaged centers. That's not what I'm saying, I'm saying the heavyweight syndicate in your report, and it's also saying that the Teaching Department is developing active policies to compensate for inequalities: lower rates, with higher faculty. And that compensating effort – which is, the syndic says – has a margin of improvement; that's why we're still working on it. Miri, let's mix so that in our sense autonomy does not generate inequality: first, because it is not proven – in the most advanced countries and where there is more equity is one have more autonomy of centers – and then, then, because autonomy, if someone benefits, it is precisely these centers with more difficulties. Why? Because the autonomy that allows is to adapt the education project to that environment and give response to the needs of your students. Therefore, to those students with the most need– and now I am not talking about social needs, but also need to learn–..., as the more the educational project of the center can be suited to its needs, the better answers we give. Therefore, it is not about marketing or explaining the project, but it is really about working the organization in the center: how we can adapt to the different needs and the different realities, and, above all, how we give a community response around the educational challenges. There is, for example, the staff decree; I know that you do not share it, but indeed, the day we teach them. Centres with special difficulties..., that's where people must go with more vocation and the most well-prepared teachers; if we don't have a mechanism that can guarantee this... What can't be – as it used to be – is that in these centers there are those teachers who, therefore, like they have a lower score, stop there; what we have to achieve is that the teacher most involved, the teacher with more vocation and also the best dozen vagaries at these centers. I have also put it on the table more than once: that complex centers are not meant to have worse results. There are a lot of experiences in this country that could show them that centers in large populations in complexity get better results, not only in school, but also in education, and even centres with complexities..., in great projects of innovation. With regard to post-compulsory, it is true, here we have a repte, but it is that the major repte was to improve school failure. That is to say, we just left out of the system those students with the most need because there were 30_percent school failures in this country. At this very moment of God is graduated; therefore, we are improving the opportunities for continuation in the post-compulsory. And, finally, you said: "There must be a strategy of government, I understand that this is part of the youth. I'm telling you now that we're expanding this, because it's not just about government, it's about the whole educational community and especially about the assemblies; otherwise, it wouldn't explain why there are so many differences depending on the assemblies. If we look at municipalities with more than one thousand inhabitants where there is more segregation and municipalities with more than one thousand inhabitants where there is less segregation, the differences are very high. Therefore, here there must be an implication of everyone, which is that we are working, too, with federation and association. That means educational areas, that means inscription. And finally, because we don't seem to agree, I think the centers where there's not really diversity are losing a lot of value, because the world is global. And, therefore, as you are more in contact with different cultures, with different languages, with different ways of thinking, with different ways of living life, you will have much more resources to face it. And this is the advantage that many of our students who have come from outside or who have been born here in outside families: they will have a great diversity not only of languages – for the català, for the castle, for the English or for their own – but also of them to share, to covet and to work folds. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the situation of large people's residences]] [[300-00190/11]] The twelve points of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the situation of the residents of large people, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.20.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. MPs, MPs, compañeros de Barcelona, counselor, let me start by doing a minimum of rest. We come from a real situation of insubmission to complete laws; insubmissibility to protect dependent persons; insubmissibility on the part of the State Government and on the part of the Catalan Government of later years to complete with the Law of Dependence; State retails; very important retails also presuppositions of the Government But, which were carried out retails in the staff; freezing of fees that are paid to companies that manage dependent services since 2010 – which, according to the lines of the same employer, involves a real reduction of 11_per_cent, because the price of life has been able – and more co-copying especially to the user, because the effect of all this burden has been on my co-sponsorship over the customization of the customization, the submissibility of the customization, the submissibility of the customization, the submissive of the customization. We have warned time back – and we have followed it – that all this would make it more difficult for the most needy people to access dependency services, more degradation of working conditions and, ultimately, more degradation of the services and more denigrating attention for our great people. And that's how we are, that's where we got here. I'm doing this little rest, Counselor, because it makes it clear that we're very aware of the legacy that you've found yourself and how complicated it must be to reverse all of this, but also because I don't use the excuse, because it's not about that, where we'll focus and where I'll focus this inquiry. I want to speak in concrete terms about the five cases of Barcelona residents that have provoked the protests of users and their families, accompanied by the city's venenal associationism, with the SOS Gent Gran Barcelona - Viure platform with dignity, which today accompany us and to which I greet, but which have also provoked the investigation of the Barcelona syndicate and the syndicate of hardships. We talk about five public residences – therefore, responsibility for it, counsel – with the outsourced service to private companies and with the award of this service made last year – with you as counsel –; the five in the hands of the Ingesan-Asproseat UTE, subsidiary of the OHL constructor. Five bad bidding girls; you yourself have recognized it. You leave badly, because the minimum required in the departure already had a real staff detail with respect to what existed as you serve in these already functioning residencies, which shows that the legal status is insufficient to guarantee a good service, but in that, moreover, they took the opportunity to score extra to whom you offer more workers and workers than the minimum required in the departures. As a result, the tender was totally subject to economic criteria, for the sole reason. And, besides, they accepted the offers that posed a price even lower, even in circumstances or in conditions of low fears, up to a 15_per_cent under the price in the bidding leave. But it is that, besides, the departure did not even make it so clear and well defined as to distribute the minimums of personnel to guarantee the worthy attention, nor that which is to be carried out – generality or the enterprise – of structural, material, etcetera maintenance. Therefore, you leave with tender values that are already low, that no longer guarantee a worthy service, with dangerous inaccuracies, and awarding it to companies that lower this price even more. It's making the dish, not seeing that this meant that they would not complement nor the minimum essential dignity of this service. All folded up, Counselor. And it's inevitable that the people affected, who protest and claim their rights to worthy service, seem contests made to the size of groups like those who won these bids. If they don't have a solution now, the feeling will remain..., connivance with these companies. And there are tangible consequences, which I want to explain with some small examples of how this service feels: less than two hours of direct care for a person of grade III – clean, wash, eat – is less than a healthy and agile person, like you or me. This is not a good service nor a worthy service. One geriatrician per plant per night, for twenty-seven or thirty people, when at their day centers you yourselves recognize that the ration has to be one of every two users, it is not enough. That's how it is given in cases of not being able to go to the bany when they need it, and that it is possible to bowl to solve it to large people who have no incontinence, just the contrary of what should be made a model that should put forward the autonomy of the person. What we do is make them more dependent than they used to be. Cases of preventable infections, nafres, medication errors, medication that is left in a bowl over the table to large people with dementias– obviously, they are not taken–, poor feeding– poor quality and low quantity–, clean more than better – you serve cooking and clean often, of course, subcontracted. But it is also that there are constant complaints about the professional medical care that is provided in these centres; users, of course, who have worked their whole lives to build our public health system and who are now excluded from the care of this public health system. There are no user activities. How should it be, if workers and workers are saturated to meet the basic needs of users? Problems of lack of material or poor maintenance; they drain them with cushions, explain to us the other day, because there are neither napkins. Rolled dutxa frames, lifting cranes or spaced elevators. Every prayer has consequences for the welfare of these users and for salvation. And yesterday there's a public case of sarna in one of these five residencies that I'm talking about. You need to reverse this situation urgently, I'm sure you're aware. They are public-owned residences, and the solution must therefore be facilitated by the Government. It's an immediate solution to these five residencies. They have already announced that they will withdraw the concession from the management in the case of the residence El Molí, which is what I have just mentioned for the matter of the case of the sarna, but it is a solution for the five. It is necessary to guarantee a new call for tenders immediately on condition that they allow a decent service, and a solution in the meantime, while this call for tenders is not being made. And, obviously, we'll transfer him, advise him, a reasonable doubt: this is repeated in more places, in more residences, in these five bands? Because the feeling is there's been more competitive bidding at the bass. Now there's a new one at OHL at Poblenou. Therefore, we also need to lay the groundwork for solving the problem in its globality, not just in these five. It is necessary to initiate measures and make commitments to reverse the problem of funds, which is the lack of resources and the effects of retailing as soon as possible, but it is also necessary to lay the foundations to trap the plant and the model and to dignify the attention to our great people. Therefore, he advises, we ask him that in this inquiry he explain to us if you, without hesitation, immediately think to pose solutions for these five cases of these five residences of the capital where the solution is not possible: either he is with whom they clearly claim to speculate and enrich himself with our public services without caring for him to climb the rights of the people, of the users, or he is in defense of public services of quality and in defense of the rights of the users and of the citizenship of Catalonia, which he is also, this great people who are in these residences. And let me finish this first part of the inquiry expressing a disappointment, counsel, a disappointment with Republican Left. Because I was telling the inside, we're very conscious and we're the first ones to report and we're still complaining that it's reversed what the central government, the government of Mariano Rajoy, did, and what the government did with detail. There was a certain hope of citizenship and – and I say so too – even some of us in the fact that, with the Republican Left, the model would be different, but at the moment they are not acting very different from what Convergence has done in recent years on this subject. I'm talking to him about cases where you left them and where the control had to be done by you and now the solution has to be implemented by you. In fact, I ask him, he will advise: what is the model of the Republican Left in the management of the public services of this area? Because they didn't foresee a reversal of assumptions to make new public residences in the assumption of this year; focusing on it, the assumption that they dedicate to dependence and to resides, only in more concerts, and leaving from the management of public centres to measure of those who enter this sector only to speculate and get rich, without having used until the limit all that the law allows them to exercise control and not exercising the inspection as hot as it would..., we have come to the conclusion that their model is to convert public services into still less public, less dignified and less people-centered. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.21.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. It has the word Mrs. Pains Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Greetings to the people of SOS Gent Gran, who have been fighting a lot on this subject all this time. And thank you for making the inquiry today, because I guess if there's a solution that comes out today in the diary... it's not tomorrow, the solutions. I'm glad you've heard of it, because from your speech it seemed that this had no importance, and that reversing and suspending the cessation of a residence for you was little. It's been a long time since we've been working, Congresswoman. I say this because it gave the chance that it was done yesterday, but, as you can imagine, the adoption of the temporary protection measure to the residence for great people El Molí - Via Favència with a total temporary suspension of the service had never been done before, I remind you that neither now nor in past legislatures. But before that, I'd also like to tell you that the model I'll also explain to you..., soc will counsel Junts for the Yes; that, because I make myself clear. Because if we have to talk about parliamentary groups, let's talk about it, because you also have to be from Catalonia. Yes, it's Pot, not Initiative. Therefore, I would like us to discern the two things before the king. As you have made an explanation of the context, I would also like to explain the context in which we find ourselves now. We find ourselves in a context that is propitious precisely to make the evolution of personal autonomy. The democratic evolution of Catalonia..., you know that the hope of life is of the highest countries; at these times, a midlife of 83.4 years per person, with the greatest person in Europe in Catalonia, of one hundred and fifteen years, precisely in a residence, that many of the Members who have visited it here have visited. And, therefore, I would also like that, if you have a moment, you can go see it, and you will see that it is a person who is fine and who is in a residence, and who came precisely from a bar, from a place where we would not say that the income of people was very high. Therefore, life expectancy has increased; at these times we are at 79.8 years for men and 85.4 years for women, and the idea is that if we continue at the pace we have now, the year 2051 will increase to 86.3 years for women and 90.2 years for men. Therefore, the aging is visible due to this increase in the number of people. In Catalonia there will be an over-envelope of the people and we have to work for two things: we have to work to ensure the sustainability of our social service system, the sustainability of the social welfare of all people, and also rethink our public service to adapt to the needs of the new generations of citizens and older citizens, who will require us to serve and provide services. So, you see, you look at the past, I look at the future. We're in the air and in the meantime, and now what we're doing is, for one band, reorganizing the more than one hundred and seventeen social benefits that exist to change the Social Service Portfolio, and you know it, because we've been there this year – at the same time we were negotiating a guaranteed income of citizenship, like government, and now it's already in Parliament, and so I hope it can be approved properly. But we are also laying the groundwork for the new Catalan law promoting personal autonomy, which involves anticipation to combat those risk factors of loss of autonomy, adaptation to aging, decentralisation and territorialization of all services, and the right to decide on the citizens. It is true that in the last thirty years a model of residential care has been developed for the great people who have put the emphasis on the elderly care, often in large institutions, and in a type of users who have experienced the precariousness of the post-war period and who simply appreciate basic care, without great requests for customization of this attention. Now, at these times, and in the future, we have a higher level of expectation, a higher level of self-realization, and people prefer two things: better quality and living in the usual environment. And therefore, this is the vision that we must look to for a future, where we will need better support for home care services. But it is obvious that when the person is big, for reasons of loneliness or lack of autonomy, he needs to be placed outside his home. And we will also need to change formulas, and that's where we're working: housing formulas shared by different users and give satisfaction to customization according to their lifestyle and personal concerns. We must overcome the Law of Dependence – you said so – so we presented the bases of the Law of Personal Autonomy, which have already been presented in committee in this Parliament. Also say what you said about the financing, but have neglected to give it a given: if it wasn't for the financing of the Generality, 65_percent of the people who have been attending could not have benefited from any loan or served at this time. It's an important overeffort, but it's true that we're clear that it's our obligation and we do it. And we will pay attention to everyone, with the three key elements: with prevention, with intervention around and with promotion of people's abilities. Therefore, from now on we must move from this medical rehabilitation plant that we have until now had to a biopsychosocial holistic system to give more transversal responses. You said to me: "Let's talk about the five residences. Talk to us. First of all, let's focus on the residential centers we have in Catalonia. It's an inheritance that we've found, and it's an inheritance that we're trying to improve as much as possible. We have 984 residents of large people assisted in Catalonia; sixty-three are the property of the Generalitat. Would it please us or would it not please us if they were all public? This is a debate, but you know that in the chapter and we can't put it in person, and that turning all the delegations into public is impossible. Therefore, there are sixty-three public titles of the Generality. Of these, at seven we have direct management and forty-seven are delegated; 843 are private initiative and seventy-seven are local public initiative, but say that, of these, 159 are totally private, without any funding from the department. Everyone else has funding from the department, so... for example, 145 have economic benefits linked to all the people in these residences. That's why he was talking about this economic overeffort. What other value should I give? Count: what we've been doing better since the department this year, the figure of residential and family caregivers. We've decided to bet on it. Therefore, the people who are at home and still have not reached the residence, as I said, by being alone or by a high degree of dependence..., we have enhanced the figure of the caregivers. And we will continue to empower them, because we believe that it is one of the important issues, if we take into account this over-envelope and consider how we can manage an entire country. Now, I also want to say that the people of the residence... I want to thank – and I have done it every time I went to a residence, because, as I can think, I have visited many residences – the excellent pocket of professionals in the sector. Catalan residents also..., some have been selected for their good practices in food – you said all the negative part; I would also like to say some positive – for the good practices they give to their residents, in the Nutrisenior Awards. I can tell you about the food responsible for the residence of Palau-Solità and Plegamans, the family food of the residence Olivaret of the Eixample of Barcelona, the added value of the crushed food of the residence Arenys, and could go to it..., the « Today I cook of the residence Mas d'Angli de Barcelona or the program« We are what we eat of the residence L'Onada of Barcelona. And I'm saying that because, the way you explained it, it seems that everything is catastrophic, and I'd like it... there's problems and we've recognized them, and we've recognized them because we've put ourselves there, and we've put ourselves to work. And, therefore, I would also like to say that others work very well. You tell me: "Let's talk about the complaints of the family members of the users of their own residences, about these five residences that we are told are managed for Ingesan-Asproseat UTE. We're talking about the Bertran Oriola residence. I want to tell you that there have been five inspections between April and May; to the residence for great people Barcelona - Good Shepherd, four inspections; to the residence Mossèn Vidal and Aunós, two inspections; to the residence Alchemika, three inspections; to El Molí - Via Favència, three more inspections, between November and May. Some of the offices and one... all of these, one of the denunciations; the others, all of the offices. Therefore, it says inspections that have not detected – I want to make it clear – any physical or psychological abuse. Now, what else happened? All this time, we've been changing to reverse it. The participation boards have been set up to be able to talk to the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.23.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.24.0	We'll keep going, because I'll explain it exactly, one by one, everything that's been reversed. And keep in mind that, from yesterday, there is only one in which the company immediately emerges from the management.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mrs. Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.26.0	He will advise, I have tried to focus, very concretely, the five concrete cases of Barcelona. You have come to me to respond with generality and statistical data on what they have been doing in the rest of the topics of dependence. I said to him, "Let's focus on these. And the only question that made him more general was to say, "How many more can there be, like these? But let's focus on these. He says it's been a while since they worked, in these five cases, but there's had to be a case of rash not communicated to families in time because they ended up acting with the force they wanted to act, which certainly proves that they could have acted before that force. The families, the users were expressing, explaining, documenting what was going on in these five residences for some time. You have the photographic folder of all the deficiencies that have been passed on by users and the platform. They have, of course, rigged six months on the platform, and they promised them they would require the company to recover the retaliated personnel during this year. For now, today, this is not solved in these residencies. So, yes, I hope with candles what will explain to me now, and then again, about what they have been doing, but, counsel, I think that it must be diaphanous, clear, and that it would be the best favor that would be done to you and to the department and to the government to say: "Here we have a hard problem, that we should go beyond what – now he will explain to us – they have already done from the department in these five cases. We need to secure a new bid right away, and that means putting it on the go this July – of the five – and it's a solution in the meantime. More inspection and better – and better –, not warned. There are also mechanisms for participation in the centres, where the veins and veins of those barrels can also be involved. We can recover decent work conditions, which is the best way to really value the excellent job that professionals do in these residencies in these services: to recover them a decent work condition. And it can guarantee criteria that receive public service quality in contracts and concessions. Because this, the dependency sector, which should, if we think about the country, be a stable and non-localizable employment generating sector, is in fact a precarious sector, a feminized sector, a poor labour sector, an exploited sector. And that might reverse it, counsel, if we want to make a country with decent conditions for people and if there's a progressive project behind how we manage public services in this country, because we're talking about citizens who are being violated right, maybe because they're the least they can complain about. Because we're talking about entrepreneurs who obviously have the right to benefit, but not at the expense of raising the rights of the people they serve. We're talking about those companies that speculated with the totxo and that have now gone to look for speculation with the public servants, that they do it with the health services, that they do it with the people in general, and that they obviously also do it with us in the residential sector. And why should I stop allowing basic public services to be used as a business no-one. Of course they can't convert all the residences into immediate public management; but do we want to go here, counselor? What's his model? Do we want to go here? So, are we moving in this direction? Because, for the time being, the measures you have taken – which is what made you manifest before – are just in the opposite sense: not to build new public residences, to go to more concessions, and, the contests that you have made, with departures from clauses that precisely favor those that only want to speculate with public servants. Councillor of Junts for the Yes – Councillor of Junts for the Yes – again, and this is the conclusion to which they bring us, if you do not take this issue with strength and difference – important – respect how these issues have been addressed so far..., which shows us that together for the Yes one of the first consequences it has had is that it has caused the Republican 'and Left' in those councils that have entered it, coming from jobs, tasks, mobilizations, progressive organizations that defend public services of quality managed with public control and going into the way of making our public services more public, and not just in the opposite sense. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.27.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.28.0	I repeat again, Mrs Marta: suspending the activity of the Ingesan-Asproseat manager of the residence for heavy irregularities that made a_me detect the inspection service do you think is something that is not important? You think you're telling an entity that you're leaving... exactly? It can't be done tomorrow, there has to be a request. We did an inspection, we found deficiencies, it was necessary... as the law says, that they had a_me to fix it, they didn't solve it, and we made it out of this company today, well – I'm sorry – it was signed before yesterday. And, as the contract law says, it goes to the second company that had the most points at bidding time. Therefore, I believe that this is a compelling issue, that it did many years that it is not ugly, and it represents our joint commitment to yes to do the right things and why, when a company does not do the right management, it knows that it will go away. Now, obviously, not because they can say: "All the companies that manage some residences will go away. We have to have an inspection, we have to find the deficiencies, we have to make a request to the company, which, if it solves it, means that it will have nine inspections and we are going to control it, and that's what we're doing. And if it is not resolved, then we can take action, which is the measure that we have taken with this residence that I gave him from El Molí - Via Favència, which I do not know if others dared to do. So, first thing, this. According to you, we have two things to say: what are the inspections and what are the territorial services of Barcelona. I will tell you that at first, the year passed, I also passed; therefore, I have no problem thinking that you pass the same. Barcelona's territorial services, from the department, find each month with residences to see what difficulties there are, and announce that they are going to be able to make a coordination meeting to see what is happening and to be able to keep all the information, beyond what we have on other sides. Therefore, this is announced. Of the inspections, not one has been announced. And I'll say it more: since we're in the government, last year, the resident inspections are at night, they never followed. Therefore, there are day and night inspections; therefore, two things. In saying that measures have been taken, 'participation councils. They were not active; they were active again, the councils of participation in each of the residences, with the relatives, who were not and are now. We have increased inspection activity, as I said, including night inspection. We process address requirements to resolve all these defects. We have created a technical table to elaborate the rules of internal rule in this constitution of commissions of cooking, for example, to Molí - Via Favència or Bertran Oriola. The nine auctions planned for 2017 will recover the score to encourage over-contracting of the existing agreement. I'm saying it because you say, "Tenders....It was exactly the same bidding, but you must know that it was a good practice argument where it was said that there could be no more hours for staff, that all unions, all employers and the department with the former councillor should be signed. Therefore, in the bidding that took place this 2016, it is not possible to extend the hours of staff for this reason, which seems perfect to me, because I do not think that staff should do more hours than the right ones. What have we done? So, let's incorporate..., as we saw that there was a fearsome drop in departures, as you said, we did what we did is reverse the detail resulting from the application of these 2012 conditions and share the cost with the companies, and the number of direct support staff will be increased over the legal period. There will be three geriatricians as of July 15th, as we have granted, and will pay half as much for the department and the other half for the company, because it had some requirements that they didn't have to do. So much for one thing. Second: We already announced that it will not extend any existing contracts with the managing company by 2018; this you know because it came out pressurized and this we announced already a_month ago. And we're preparing contests because, as good as it gets, other companies can already be. And, finally, they will review and update all the departures from the forty-seven public ownership bids of the Generality with delegated management throughout the country with this increase in rates, above all direct attention, of farmers. The territorial services meet, therefore, to coordinate. And, as I say, we have suspected the activity of this manager, and we suspend the activity of any manager who does not meet the requirements of the job inspection at any place of residence in Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about a quality school and equal opportunities]] [[300-00187/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on a quality school and equal opportunities presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.30.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, lady counselor. The summer... we all like it very much, that comes the summer, that comes the holidays, but the summer sometimes is very long for some people. It is very long, for example, for families with few resources. This year, with the heat wave, it was a very difficult finale, and I'm sure you spoke to a lot of teachers and explained to him that it was difficult for them, for the students and also for families. And if the situation has been difficult for everyone, even more so for these teachers and students who give classes in barracks. Just a year ago we presented a motion to end this massacre we have in the Catalan education system, and, despite its approval, the government has not complied with the democratic mandate of this Parliament, and the name of barracks has not only not been reduced, but has increased. And there are a lot of students, too many students, who do all their schooling in barracks. Currently we have around twenty-thousand students in barracks in Catalonia. This month, which was a particularly warm June, they have had to endure temperatures of up to thirty degrees, and this implies a failure of Royal Decree 486/1997, of April 14, which says, among other things, that temperatures must be avoided under the said degrees and over the twenty-five, and also the unpleasant smells. Unfortunately, here in Catalonia, there are many classrooms that suffer very bad conditions and that fail to comply with this decree, and I will set an example that I know very well, which is the J. V. Foix Institute, of Rubí, because I worked there many years. The bad smells are constant, because there are three mouthpieces around a public institute, three mouthpieces that once took place the institute was already there. And they're not just the bad smells, it's that I spent a lot of cold in that school. There have been years when the cold has been so horrific that the students come with clothes, because, of course, the teacher still has a more dynamic position in the classroom, but..., imagine high school rooms with blankets and a person in the classroom. Do you know what it's like to have students in the front with coats, for the cold that it does, and the teacher, with coats and gloves? Because in Catalonia we have many classrooms that are very badly conditioned, and it's very cold in the winter, and, in months like this June, too hot in the summer. These days we have also known the case of Salt, because from the time of his assembly air conditioning has been requested in the barracks of his municipality. And Salt's case is not unique, because Girona is the province with the most barracks in all of Catalonia and Catalonia is the autonomous community with the most barracks in all of Spain. In fact, Girona's FAPAC has already said that it will bring excess heat to justice if the Teaching Department does not put air conditioning in the barracks, because it cannot have the student and the teacher at more than twenty-seven degrees, as there have been these days. We also have the case of the bressol schools of Sabadell; bressol schools like Can Llong, Creu Alta, La Românica or Joan Montllor, where, with the arrival of heat, the classrooms are converted into a furnace menu where students under three years of age suffer inhuman heat in enclosed spaces, with little ventilation, and exposed directly to the sun. And these families and those teachers who claim to be back a year are promised, but they never come to any solution. And while all this is going on, your government doesn't dedicate a single euro to bressol schools, although Ciutadans proposed in a youth that is back to finance bressol schools and approved it, but continue without putting this situation right and continue without financing bressol schools. It is more than obvious that, because the process of education goes well, it is important that our students have a good environment and facilities. The truth is that I'm almost ashamed, in 2017, to have to say these things in a parliament. There must be good conditions for teachers, students and the rest of the educational community to be able to develop their own pockets well, but in Catalonia there are many pupils who are educated in precarious situations. In Catalonia we are champions in barracks, we have more than twenty thousand students in barracks, we are the autonomous community of all Spain with more barracks. With the young man we approved a year ago, we asked to end this slaughter, but it has not only not been implemented, our young man, because they have not even presented the report that they should have submitted in October – I hope that the next October we have it – but, obviously, they are not doing anything to end the barracks. Mrs. Ruiz, why aren't we leaders in school results but are we leaders in barracks all over Spain? What are you going to do, once and for all, to end this problem? When I introduced the young man last year, I explained the story of my nephew Jordi, who went to an institute that is still in barracks, that they have no way of installing and that they have to go to do the physical education class in a proper football camp and can't be dutted. So, they go back to court without going, and we can already imagine, with the heat that's made these days, huh? Thirty students, all sweaty, in one class. Mrs. Ruiz... [[Funnel veils]] Well, I'd like you to listen to me, because I wanted to ask him a few questions. I wanted to ask him what he has to say to my nephew's company, to this institute's company, that they have to return to their class, in full study, without being able to shower. Don't you have anything to say? And the teacher who works in these conditions? A teacher who, as we recall, collects less and works more hours, and works in these bad conditions. Because, obviously, they're not just my nephew and his company – I don't want it to look like a nepotism movement now, or much less, huh? – is that it is a condition that twenty thousand students are patenting. Because you find money to build airports without planes, but you don't find money to end the barracks. You find money to build funiculars that nobody takes, but you don't find money to end the barracks. You've found a date to repeat 9-N; Mrs. Ruiz, can you tell me a date to end the barracks, huh? As long as they're so pleased with the historical days, the historical dates, come on, a historical date: when will we end up with the barracks, Mrs. Ruiz? And if the estuary is longer for families without resources, September is still longer. September is pushing for many Catalan families, because they have to pay about three hundred euros per child. In Catalonia we have self-management centres and students can have free text books, but most do not have them, unlike other autonomous communities that do have free text books. Two weeks ago, the Madrid Assembly approved a proposal for the law of Ciutadans in order to hold free textbooks. In Madrid, thanks to Ciutadans, all the parties have agreed, and now the families of Madrid will rise to three hundred euros every September. But here in Catalonia, it's not possible, because his party doesn't want to. And look what we've tried: with your proposal, with your motion, with your motion for a resolution, and nothing, with you there's no way. Sire will advise, why you, why Mr Puigdemont and why Mr Junqueras do not want Catalan students to have free textbooks, as they do in other autonomous communities? But I don't have to answer to myself, I have to answer to the Catalan families that by now, a few weeks from now, they're going to have to spend it on books. And you'll also have to answer the families who can't do this expense and send the children without books to the classroom, and that's very sad, and I'm telling you because I've lived it in the first person. It's horrible, having students that their families haven't been able to buy their books. So far, the explanations given to us by his party are that the textbook is out of date and that the centers no longer serve them. Well, that's what his game says – it's in the session log – but there's a 20_per_cent of schools that don't serve books, the rest do. I'm sorry, it seems to me an excuse for a bad payer. Look, here's a real list of a fifth grader. These are the books you're going to need from September, and if we add it up, it's almost three hundred euros. What do I have to tell this family and so many Catalan families who will have to pay by September, while other autonomous communities will be able to have free text books? And that's as much for the independent families as for the non-independent families, that they would cost them the same, the books, huh? Whether you're independent or not. Because we propose measures that are useful for all Catalans. You don't want to have free text books. I believe, I insist, that it must be explained, not to this Member, but to all Catalan families. And I don't know what explanation he's going to give us, because he doesn't have the option of "Spain for our clothes", because the fiscal deficit in Madrid is higher than in Catalonia, and it is that, moreover, to the general assumptions of the State, thanks to Ciutadans, there is a game for free text books. Nor can they say that it is not economically viable, because when we presented the proposal of the law I brought four Excels that proved that it was viable. But you're obsessed with the monotheme: you find money to repeat 9-N, you find money to buy ballot boxes that nobody wants to sell, but you don't find money for free text books. We believe in equity and equal opportunity, and we will continue to work so that all students can go to class under the right conditions, in quality installations and with free textbooks. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen..., honourable Member, look, if your group wants to work for quality and improve equal opportunities in my opinion– and I don't want to seem offensive–, surely with speeches or less demagogic approaches would help it more than with certain approaches. Lucky I started saying I wouldn't want to offend; so I don't say it in a way of offending, just to come here and go explaining particular cases and go see that our students here are either cold or hot... years ago, really, they're not in class. But, look, if I wanted to talk about modules, if I wanted to talk about all this, I think we should have changed the title. He asked us to talk about a school of quality and equal opportunity. Therefore, I will talk to him about what he has asked of me, about the quality school, as we have – so he will feel things that we have already explained –; we will also talk about equal opportunities, but not pathetic, that we will also talk about modules, I will also talk about constructions, I will also talk about scholarships. But what I'd like to say is that I can't sweep the quality with the modules. And not because it hurts the Department of Education, which, look, that's all, that's politics, and so, you have the whole right to criticize as much as the Department of Education wants, but to link the modules to the poor quality of the system, you know who primarily hurts? So, to the centers, to their projects and to the teachers. Because it is obvious that we all want to have definite buildings; now, we do not link the quality of the system with prefabricated modules. Miri, in Catalonia, the school – I've said it many times – works, works well, it's improving, and we need to keep improving. And we have evidence from and outside that they say: if our evidence is not enough – although they indicate that, in the basic skills, we have already passed all 70_per_cent in the first place, in the second place, and in the first place and in the second place we have already reduced by 15_per_cent the lower fringes; therefore, we are speaking of equal opportunity – we also have international evidence, which tells us that we are the OECD country that has improved the most, together with Portugal, in scientific and technological competence; we are, of course, continuing to understand the reader, unthankful..., therefore, all those impulse programs at the reading that have been made, therefore, work, but obviously we will insist again. A very important data of equal opportunities are the nanos that finish us with the title, which was very low a while ago, and now it's, as I said before to the other MP, so it's new to each of you. So we'll keep working. It is important – very important – the early abandonment of the studies, which has gone from being a 32,9... ; therefore, there was a 32,9_per_cent, the year 2008, of young people who did not continue studying after having finished ESO, and, in change, they are now only 17.8. This means that the big bet that has been made for vocational training in this country works and is working, and we still have the goal for 2020 of 15_per_cent. And it's also important to see how the population grew from twenty-four years old to twenty-four years old with post-compulsory secondary studies, which if it was 59.2 in 2008, is now 73.8. And, well, there are also the basic skills, which I have already explained. Therefore, we will continue on this line to improve the educational outcomes of our centers and to continue working to reduce lower fringes and also to increase high fringes. And what's done in school is better, and it's done good work. Now we're talking about the continent and not the content, but the most important thing is the content, and we're talking about constructions and modules and how we're evolving. Miri, let's get back together. We come from difficult years, where priority has followed the educational attention, but we have to say that I find these assumptions, to which they did not want to support, have increased the chapter of investments by a 30_per_cent, and, therefore, we have also prioritized actions in subjects of work. With five criteria? The territorial balance, as is the vertebrator, so as to act in all the territories, and, therefore, there will have to be and there will be a positive discrimination towards the areas with the most need; a balance between the future needs of schooling and the lack of current constructions, because the projections of the school population tell us that they will frame us buildings, but basically secondary; also to remove the prefabricated modules, because there is a demand, as you said, specific to Parliament to eliminate the modules. You said it, and if not, I say it: there are a thousand and two installed modules, of which..., eighty-six centers are totally in prefabricated modules. Removing asbestos also exists in educational centers, this is also one of our priorities. This action is valued at 100_million euros, and therefore we are going to act in the measure, therefore, of the needs; this means depending on the deterioration, which is the one that carries the peril. And priority criteria in relation to constructions are beginning for compulsory schooling, in ESO, in the first place, in those centers that for security are to be done again, and in professional training. I can explain – and we have said it, and we have not even guessed –... the course 2009-2010 – and I also commented on it on Tuesdays in the committee appearance – there were 1,063 modules; 2009 was so, when there were resources, much more resources, to the Generality of what is now there. And, despite the great difficulties the Generality has had, course 16-17 is not a thousand. We also have to say that until the 2010-2011 course schools were built by the ICF with debt, and the Generality is in debt until 2037 by value– hope, that I am not mistaken, that it has many numbers – of 2,376_million euros. This is the importance that citizens, citizens, on the assumption of the Generality, must pay each year as well. And what are the reasons and what is the policy that we do in the installation and in the maintenance of modules? First, the variable demographic needs. Look, in order not to mortgage the future again as we have mortgaged now, what we're doing is seeing where the need for people are being held. Since the 2003-2004 course, there were 1,036,000 students..., the current course is 1,000,500; therefore, despite lowering the presupposition, there has been an increase in schooling. And what we did was make sure that all the students had their place, their place of quality, and their installations to do it. But it also means that we have decreased the number of centers that are found entirely in modules, and that we have also explained, and all this presuppositional situation: it has passed from a hundred and thirteen centers in total in modules the course 2009-2010 until the eighty-six that we have now. Therefore, there is a concern to be able to donate definite space. And, as you can see, the will has always been to go down the centers completely in the mold, in the measure of their availability. Look, I think it's hardly credible to say that the president or vice president of this country doesn't want the free text books or definite buildings. What we can, in any case, talk about is how a public assumption, which is limited, is priority. I think we can't talk – because no one in this room thinks so – that we don't want gratuity in many of our things, but obviously resources – the day that I have the opportunity to manage a public assumption will know – public resources, unfortunately, are limited, here and there, in the most advanced countries and in the least advanced countries. With regard to the module, what is the policy that we will follow in the coming course? First, take into account the needs, as I said, of temporary schooling; that in certain municipalities what is a temporary growth of the growth of the needs, that will not justify the construction of a building, and therefore we will not do it – because, if not, it means mortgageing future generations in buildings that we will not need. Solars available. No of the municipalities have availability of plots to deliver to the Department of Education. Therefore, although there is the will and the process has begun, we do not have these solars, and we will prioritize the actions in the buildings, because sometimes we must also prioritize buildings that, because of their antiquity, require rehabilitations or adaptations or great works. And, finally, prioritizing the education service; this means giving response to post-compulsory secondary education. So, with all these arguments – and you know it hard, because I also have a lot to say about scholarships, but we'll do it after, of books –..., all the arguments show that there is a clear will, although you don't want to believe it, to the Department of Teaching to go down the prefabricated modules, all the increase in the school population, but also prioritising the education service before the removal of the modules, because that's also what we believe: in prioritizing the education service. Despite that, we're acting. You said, "You're doing nothing. Listen to me, I don't know if he read – if not, I'll get him there – the government agreement of June 6th, in which we commissioned works worth 99_million euros – exactly 99.150,000 – and all this is a rule of works, which I can't read right now, which is exactly what they're going to assume is the reduction of the modules. Therefore, when you have the opportunity, one year from now, to make this inquiry, as at least you will no longer have to say that the modules are increasing, but you will have to recognize that the modules have decreased. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.33.0	Thank you, Counselor Ruiz. There's the word "Mrs. Sierra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.34.0	Thank you, Madam President. So good was right, and I'll be the first to congratulate her and to rejoice. I have government agreements and I have read them, I mean I don't need to be sent back, but when I say they didn't do anything, I mean they didn't even give us a report. It's been a year since they had to report to us, and they didn't even do that. And then works are love, and not good intentions, which we have seen and spoken with many institutes, with many schools, which they had promised and which was supposed to be, and then it was not done. You told me I was talking about private cases. Yeah, I was talking about real cases, basically. I've brought – because I can't bring it from all the families in Catalonia – a list of books from a family, but if it doesn't, everyone pays the same, huh? You said that Catalonia hasn't had any heat or cold in its classrooms in years. Mrs. Ruiz, it's a note that you [[the speaker laughs]] He doesn't do classes here, in Catalonia. Catalonia is cold and warm in the classroom. If FAPAC has already said to bring their department to justice, I say they must have better things to do than to bring the department to justice. The real cases... I didn't bring any pictures because they were smaller, but there are terrible pictures of the Bressol schools of Sabadell. I mean, don't say it's not cold or hot, because it's not true. I « we will do everything possible to solve it, but the first step to be able to solve a problem is to recognize that the problem exists. You also talked about the continent and the content, but you didn't talk about civil responsibility, which was what we expected. You – you have to recognize yourself, and you know that you always do – are very well prepared for interventions; what happens is that you answer a little what you want, and not what I asked. I have asked very concrete questions that you did not answer me, although you are very well prepared for your intervention. For example, he didn't answer me because we're not leaders in school results and we're leaders in barracks. You haven't given any data, but the middle of Catalonia, more or less, is the sixth position. That's not a leader in results. Have we improved? Yeah, but we're not leaders. Are we leaders in barracks? Yeah, and with a lot of difference, huh? , respects the rest of the autonomous communities, and he didn't challenge me. I also asked him if he found any date to end the barracks, just like they found historical dates for everything. So, he didn't give me any historical data to end the barracks, which would be a historical date for Catalans, and not these performances that are mountain. Then he didn't answer what he would tell these teenagers to go back to class without going to school, in the heat that it does? He will now say to me: "It is anecdotal. [[The speaker shows the camera a full version of a list.]] Miri, they're exactly 433 students. I'm not saying, I'm saying his department – here's the sequel to his department –: 433 students in Catalonia who go back to class after doing physical education without having to go to school. I don't think he's ever been educated. Then why don't they want free text books? I recommend that you look at the diary of sessions, when we presented the proposal of the law, and read the intervention of Mrs. Vallverdú; that, moreover, I already quoted it – I did not bring it today because I had already done it – a fragment where she said that, of course, the Catalan editorials would remain..., it is tancarian, and they should have Spanish books and translations. That's what he said, he's in the session log, and besides, I read it at a committee. On the other hand, if the estuary is very long for students without resources and for their families, it is also very long for the names of those who do not have the keys, those creatures who have none but the backs to the exit of the college because their parents, often single women, are working, and, despite working, have few resources and cannot pay for extra-curricular activities nor, even less, summer colonies; they are the victims of precariousness and lack of work and family reconciliation. So, free time ends up being a time of exclusion, and it's the social entities that run, and the Administration doesn't give it a solution. And this situation is especially difficult for students with special educational needs. Miri, Madam Counselor, an autistic student on June 22 continues to be autistic and becomes autistic on September 12. What do we do with these creatures that can't go to the spleen or go to the colonies that go to the rest of the children? I know he'll tell me that from June 22nd it's not his responsibility, but I think the calendar of autistic students shouldn't be so rigid. And we also think that you should coordinate with Mrs. Bassa's department to give solutions to these problems, to those people who are left without school food, who are left without reading activities and who spend hours watching the TV screen or the mobile screen. They tell us the experts that these creatures may be anxious, they may feel abandoned. And we believe that it is the responsibility of the Administration, of the two departments. They have to coordinate, they can't have such rigid calendars. We are concerned about these students who cannot enjoy the summer, who do not have activities to enjoy; these students who cannot dinate or do more if not a concrete, quality day-to-day bed. And we also care about the students who pass cold and who pass heat in the Catalan classrooms. And we're worried about the students in the barracks. And we're worried about the students who can't buy books at the beginning of the course. We will continue to fight to improve education in Catalonia, to have a quality system for everyone and equal opportunities.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.35.0	Mrs. Sierra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.36.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.37.0	...has run out of time. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. It has the word Constellera Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I don't know why I always end up talking about economics and public resources, apart from teaching. Listen to me, I've said it more than once: we are, according to the years, the second or third autonomous community to contribute, and between the dotzen and the fourteen in rebre. There are communities that have twice as much per capita – twice as much per capita – as we have. Listen to me, you don't believe me. The New York Times – and I thank Mr. Oriol who explained it to me – even the New York Times, which is not often suspected of being for the Junts Government for Yes, see the unfair treatment. He says: « Catalunya pays 20 per cent of taxes, but it accounts for 9.5 per cent of public expenditure, not to mention the full extent of the economic incompliments that the Spanish State has. So, do you know the historical date? The historical date will be the moment in..., this Parliament having the resources that Catalans generate, this really will be the historical date [[applause]] In which we can decide more freely than we have done now – and I assure you that with less difficulty than we have done now – what we are devoting public resources to. In fact, you yourselves recognize that the system is not just and needs to be changed. Therefore, as they recognize it, they also blame not only this Government, which has a great social insensitivity and which is only concerned to know that and not for other things... They also know that the problem of financing precisely affects the people who need it most, so we claim to have the money and dispose of the money, of what we have. Miri, I've explained it: the measures... because he's told me a lot of things and I'd like to challenge them all, if I can. I'm starting with one that... it's true, it's not my competition, it's not that I don't want to challenge him about all the measures they're doing in the summer. Listen to me, I asked the councilwoman, because we are part of the government, which touches her. Listen to me, the additional millions that have been donated, the support programs, the increase of 37_percent of economic resources to promote..., the child at risk, the summer programs, etc. Therefore, they prioritize and do many more things. Then, as far as modules are concerned, I told him that we made an agreement, that it was read, of 99 million euros. And now I'm going to give him a piece of news that you're going to like very much – to make it astonishment, I mean – but listen 'in the positive part: the year we're going to increase the modules by 0.69_per_cent. And I don't have to calculate it, I already do it: this means seven; we have a thousand_god, we'll probably move to a thousand_disset. Because, unfortunately, constructions aren't so good, but they have their processes, so we've put in 99_million to build. What's that supposed to mean? That these 99_millions – and this, if it can be, is the data that I would like to stay, apart from the set of increments – will allow us to reduce in more than one hundred modules that we now have. Therefore, this government acts; therefore, this government prioritizes. These 99_millions – course 18, course 19, course 20 – will allow, among others, that seven school buildings that are totally in modules are able, therefore, to take up and keep their buildings. And from here, with all the works we have now, they will be reduced. About the gratuity of text books. Listen to me, I had the opportunity to be Director General at a time when the economic difficulties were very great, and, moreover, the Spanish State was still offending us. Do you know how much he stopped paying the Spanish State...? No, not bufin. Do you know how much we get for the free text books of the Spanish State? – because I, who knows, still don't receive taxes here –: 11_million euros. Eleven_million euros each year: multiplequin, since 2011, how many million euros... Therefore, with all these we could have made many more policies than we do. But we did: we put in four million euros, we didn't go up the pressure and we distributed it to the centers, not only do they need more than these. In total, there are 970 centres in Catalonia that receive assistance. But you say, "Listen to me, are you in favor of free text books? Yeah. On the day that we have resources, I will not suffer, that we will do it; now, if we are to be able to sort, we will sort out those people that I need most. Estimation measures? I've already explained it. Equal opportunities? The ones you wanted. But equal opportunities, I insist, although I don't like them, it's not what the Spanish State gives us. Miri, bookshelfs: when I was there we did the study. Do you know how much he gave – and don't give to the community so as not to hurt any of them – the Spanish State for certain communities? Thirty-nine euros per student. Do you know how much he donated to Catalonia? Seven. If this is equal opportunities, to me I explain, because I in a country that considers that there are communities that have to be thirty-nine euros per student and community..., or a state that thinks that others have to be seven, that is not to treat well either dependence, poverty, or education. And just to end, honestly, with this 20 percent of taxes we pay and the 9 and a half we get, with this difference, I assure you that we can go much further in all the policies we want to do. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into tourism]] [[302-00162/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on tourism, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.40.0	President, with your permission. Business and Coneixement Councillor, Education Councillor, MPs and MPs, good morning. As we moved forward with the question we were to put to the Councillor for Enterprise and Knowledge in the past, focus and focus, we wanted to focus our work on three axes, three priorities. We could have done it many times, but it seemed to us that these are three important priorities that we think – we think, we think – the experience of our party, our parliamentary group, on this issue. First of all, the need to have as soon as possible the strategic documents, the tools to make an appropriate tourist policy for the next few years. And tell as soon as possible because – as we say to the counselor – we start to be late. The strategic plan 2013-2016 was this: it ended 2016; the very strategic plan still does not have it. And, therefore, the need to have an adequate diagnosis and general lines of action and strategies of action seems to us to be absolutely necessary. And that is why we propose in this first point of the motion that in short terms is present to the Commission of Enterprise and Knowledge of Parliament both the strategic tourism plan 2017-2020 and the sectoral territorial plan, which we already know is working, and obviously ensuring that in its debate, its discussion and its elaboration will count with participation – that we do not doubt – representatives of the sector, the local world, parliamentary groups, trade unions, etc. According to the great line of our motion: we present a series of measures for the better of the tourist quality. We have already said to the question that it is not a matter of growing or growing to grow, but that the front of the present and future is quality, the best of quality, both of the offer and of demand, from deseasonalization, specialisation, diversification, etc.; it is that of those elements that generate quality, innovation, research and that, moreover, diversify and, therefore, expand the supply of the tourist season. And, in this sense, we propose four measures: to develop and present a platform for innovation and entrepreneurship in the tourism sector – we are talking about RIS3CAT, we are talking about specialisation and competitiveness projects. A plan, a line of aids, incentives, for the modernization of mature establishments and tourist areas or obsolete tourist areas. To change the conditions that must be met by the tourist lodges – and I repeat: « tourist lodges, not youth lodges, counselors –, especially those located in municipalities with a high tourist density. And finally, start talking and working seriously in the field of collaborative economy in the tourism sector. We believe that it is beginning to be an urgent necessity to regulate the legal and fiscal compliment of these new phenomena, which for us are an opportunity if we are able to regulate them properly. Why is deregulation profited by speculation, huh? We've experienced this, you know, recently. But we must not forget that there are some nine forms of economy behind these practical evils, that we give to our "collaborative" home, and that we believe they are an opportunity. And, therefore, what it is necessary to regulate is to minimise the risks that abuse and inappropriate use of the term "collaborative economy" can also entail. And finally, as the third great axis, as the third great priority of our proposals in our motion, the fight against the submerged economy, against the illegal offer, against fraud and job insecurity in the tourism sector. This is why we are presenting or proposing a plan to strengthen the inspection of the illegal tourist offer and to regularise or bring out the submerged economy; to expand and strengthen the number of inspectors of the Treball Inspectorate to end also the precariousness of the labour market, and to promote a pact for training and quality employment between the whole sector, in collaboration, in cooperation with the whole sector, therefore the local world, the business sector, the trade unions, etc. This, in short, is the reason we present and hope that it can be approved, because we believe that it is a good tool and a good instrument. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. To defend the items presented by Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.42.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Members and Members, when Mr Rafel Bruguera was asked – and good companion and good friend, we had an appeal shared in time with other parliamentary chambers – in fact, in some of his manifestations and his exposition of the same question I was, let's say, gratefully surprised to find that some of the things he gave, in good measure..., practically everything – if I allow myself, practically everything, and this I see in position – were the main axes of Councillor Baiget's intervention in an intervention that he did this month of the past, where he was, therefore, talking about the conflict in governance for what he does on the subject of tourism and in a whole follow-up of his work. It's obvious that... and it does so from time to time and with the will to help, obviously, that that's why it's the function, also, like parliamentary groups, to try to find the best tools and instruments, and, in this sense, the best ability to give answers to different sectors, also in this economic case and as important as tourism. But, of course, you said: "The need, as quickly as possible, of the subject of the strategic plan. You know perfectly well that the strategic plan began to develop the year 2013. And, therefore, when you say as quickly as possible, I understand that what you do is place, that, let's say, with the will on the part of the different social and economic agents, too, is pulled forward as quickly as possible, as you say, but repeatedly the same counselor also said. I want to thank you, Member, for the way, also, as we have worked together, with the will..., and since the minute zero I have had this impression: that you, in short, did not come here now to say: "We are the first ones we think there is..., a strategic plan, because you know that the work is never done in a day, but it is the product of many efforts and many days, and many weeks and many months, and the advisor Baiget, therefore, started 2013, but in a very clear way is working on it. And I can assure you, if you will allow me this small personal request, that, as the mayor of the touristic municipalities, I am noticing a lot; therefore, I know that you too are not aware, and you have been mayor and you know that these things never need a day. You spoke, therefore, of the measures of the best of quality, which also, in this very mess, the same councilman was clearly disengaging, right? And I'd like to say..., I'm saying it because, more than just going straight on the topic of reviews, like you did with the five-axis formulation..., and you'll see that, taken two points – and I'll explain why not – in the rest, so we'll vote for it because you've also accepted the transactionals, in which it's not so much "to push but to keep going, and in any case" to boost, but in any case it's part of a job that's already done. But I would like to say that on the part of the department it has been made very clear that what is needed is a powerful tourism sector, which integrates an important part of Catalonia's economic structure, generating opportunities. That it is clearly defending a model that generates quality occupation and with fair remuneration; therefore, here in one of the papers it is clear, too. That the formation – also emerges – must be one of the bases of the competitiveness of the sector, and not its low sous. Continued training – also comes out in one of the exams –, knowledge of languages, use of new technologies: they are key tools. A sector that defines its development meets the criteria of environmental sustainability, and a model that favors the decentralisation of activity to the interior, which also fails to remain at some point, right? In some of the points it was talking about fully completing Resolution 341/XI; it is already going to be a first accomplishment, even as it was from October 2016, on March 8, 2017, that I know that all Members have it, but that in any case it is worth following, because in a very few months deu-n'hi-do– deu-n'hi–, the amount of degree of achievement in this resolution, that it is clear that it takes time to complete it to 100_per_cent, but that... if in a short time deu-n'hi, the amount of degree of achievement, full confidence, total, because that will do so, therefore, in the time that..., in a short time it will be able to accomplish this resolution much. Only two points in which we will vote against. One is point 4, on the subject of youth hostels, which I have already explained, therefore, that this corresponds more to the Department of Work and, therefore, are not considered in any case, these, as touristic hotels: they form part of the equipment of the Department of Work. And the other is point 5 bis, in which we clearly understand that it is, let us say, an invasion of municipal autonomy, that it is obvious that we, from our responsibility, already try, logically, to find the exact measure in which economic activity does not alter or imbalance other planning from the social, economic and structural point of view, and obviously from the other economic diversifications that it requires. Again, tell her – and I finish, President – that thanks for all of this, thanks for having practically accepted all of our ideas, because it is to understand that the job is done, and that you want us to do it more quickly, and in any case we commit ourselves to it, and at the disposal of the group of people who defend tourism from a point of view that you do not stigmatize and, in any case, reject everything you see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.43.0	I know it's hard, but it's just...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.44.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.45.0	...is running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.46.0	Not to stigmatise tourism, but to the contrary: as a good tool of productive economy. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.47.0	To defend the papers presented, for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, has the word of Mr Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.48.0	All right, thank you, President. Quickly. When we read this young man, at first we didn't know well how to take it, because a little bit of a rebuff came from which we presented ourselves, didn't we? , a little, and some points, therefore, that seem to point in the same line, while there are a little decaffeinated, as they have finally been written, respect ours and respect, curiously, three points that we approved of ours in the past Ple. And we don't know how to see a..., or at least it doesn't explain what model the PSC wants to be in tourism. They're like a bunch of generalities that are pointed, of good intentions, of good words, but it's not concrete, so say, no to which model..., isn't it? , as we did in our clearly decreasing youth of choice for other economic alternatives to places of high tourist saturation – before we go to promote tourism, so we understand that there are other alternatives. And on the other hand, you don't raise an ideological debate: you raise a tactical debate, short-term measures, and with a lack of global and strategic vision no longer only of tourism, but also from the point of view of the territorial model, we could say. So, what do we give, huh? , a set of instrumental measures: therefore, the sectoral plan, the territorial plan, the strategic plan; as diem, good words, but with lack of substance. I mean, the plans... we're already in favor of planning, but the plan for if it's just not a guarantee that things are going well. And, besides, this young man doesn't explain what he's got and where this planning should go. Yes, they say: "The entrepreneurs and the local world must be taken into account. Say: "Home, of course, all those who are in favor of it... What will they say? So, what more tourism. We have proposed proposals – which we did not accept at the end [[remorse of the voice]] – that what they were giving..., or we tried to give a voice, from this planning, to those affected, also, for tourism: all those sets of social organizations, unions, plataforms that have come out above all to the space of high tourist massaication, so, try to give them a view, in this planning, so that at least, as at least, in the making of these plans there will be a debate; if only there is a part, it is very difficult that this plan, so to speak, is plural and complex, as it has to be. Nor do they explain, in this case, any specific measure, no longer of decrease, as we do or defend ourselves, but of contention of tourism or of the negative impacts of tourism. On the contrary, it seems that there are some measures which they claim to be laundering irregular tourist accommodation: they are talking about ‘regularising, right? , situations that today, therefore, are irregular. Well, that's... if we regulate everything that's illegal in Barcelona, we won't be mad anymore, because then they'll continue to appear, everything that's illegal. As I said, we did not accept any mention, which basically, I said, pointed out in the line of integrating affected collections for tourism into the debate; it is to say, we do not want to impose anything, but to give sight to these affected collections at the time of talking about tourism. We also proposed some measures to contain tourist activity: we asked for more control of inspections at irregular tourist accommodation, not to legalize them, but, therefore, surely to close them if they are not doing things well: it is not possible to reward, to those who cheat, to those who generate impacts in our society. And we also asked for more strength in the inspection of irregular work situations. That is to say, all those workers in the tourism sector who work with a good deal under the jobs that they really do thanks to the trap of being able to do these jobs through sub-contracts, and that in this job in the end it is much more decafeinated than we approved, almost unanimously, our job in the past Ple. In short, there are still many good words. In the end, we read, therefore, « responsible tourism, « sustainable tourism, « tourism – now the new fashion word – « col·laboratiu. And the question is: is it responsible, sustainable and collaborative Barcelona World? [[Some applause.]] Because you, Junts per el Si, Ciutadans, PP vote in favor of Barcelona World in this Ple. So, they come here with a responsible tourism movement, sustainable tourism, but in turn they press the green button to give free to Barcelona World, which will come to an end tomorrow, for sure, because they present the requests that they say so long ago that they want to invest and, in turn, we read that every week goes by one; they are about to make a good ridiculous, all folds, on this issue. So, for this reason, basically, and for these reasons, say, we will vote against most of the points of this motion. And in some we'll do some abstention because, say so... there are things that we would vote for and other things that we wouldn't, and that they didn't accept papers, so we'd be left in a complicated situation. All right, come on, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. The words of Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.50.0	Thank you, President. Well, today we're going back to talking about tourism, according to the full result, as Mr. Saladié said, in this chamber, thank you this time to the motion that the Socialist Party brings us today to debate. And it looks good to us, but it looks late to us. As my farming companies say, the fires go out in the winter, and tourism goes through exactly the same thing: if, as this young man says, the government has to present the strategic tourism plan for the next three years 2017-2020, because 13-16 has passed, it should have done so a few months ago. In fact, my parliamentary group, at the time of last year's holiday, September 1st – it was late, in this case – already predicted what could happen and recorded a motion for a resolution that was approved by the Commission of Enterprise on October, already asking this plan, this strategic plan that today, well into the summer season, we have to ask again. Immersed already in the most important season of high occupation of the year, which will predictably push the Spanish tourist GDP up to a 3,3_per_cent, we must see here, today, again demanding the strategic plan for 2017. Immersed already in a summer season that, in terms of tourism many months ago it is expected that it will take some remembering figures, and we have to ask again, at 29 June, the strategic plan for 2017. Immersed already in the summer season that, also in terms of tourism, but at the level of work and job creation, faces a historic campaign. And today, when we've already eaten more than half the year, we need to re-ask the 2017 strategic plan. A summer campaign that, for what it does on the Catalan coast, for example, to not always talk about Barcelona, will be, according to them, historical: the Costa Daurada and the Costa Brava will greatly improve their figures respect the past year. International reservations advance when we have Spain, and Catalonia, considered, by international organizations, as a safe destination in comparison with the geopolitical situation of competing countries. It still suggests that, then, the sector will have an excellent year, and it will fill us with no plan or strategy. It does not just mean that the government, in the matter of tourism, is late, but that it also fails to comply with resolutions approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. As I said, we already imagined that it would happen, and we already wanted, on September past, to give the attention to the government. But, indeed, still, time has given us reason and shows us that the government was on other issues. But well, today we have before us this young man, who introduces us to Congressman Rafel Bruguera. We are grateful that you have accepted many of the points that we have put forward, that they are moving towards making a little more concrete the requests of the young man, because yes, we agree that the new strategic plan is being prepared once and for all, that..., but we wanted it in fifteen days, that we can already address the summer season in which we enter. Finally, the deputy seems to have given the margin to do so calmly, until the end of the year, a plan that should have been implemented by now. And since it's not done, so at least we want to know from where we left off, the conclusions that have been drawn and what objectives have sunk in the plane that preceded it. I personally believe, counselor, that it will not bring them much work, because the star object of the past plan was the national tourism pact, and now as this continues I feel what it was: an object. And, yes, we also agree with the Socialist Party to get help in rehabilitating and modernizing obsolete equipment. But we would also ask the PSC to be consistent with what it is doing in Spain's most competitive tourist town, which is Barcelona, where Mayor Colau's moratorium puts the wheels on the goal you're looking for at this point. And, yes, of course, we agree to promote a quality occupation in the tourism sector, a sector that we all know is a seasonal sector and that, therefore, the occupation suffers more from rotation and precariousness than other sectors because it depends on holiday periods. We therefore want this plan, and tourism strategy in general, to be able to take advantage of the moments of growth and the resources that this generates to reinvest in tourism innovation, explore new forms, and diversify activity and rebalance the territory. In any case, we appreciate the work done to Congressman Bruguera, hoping that this young man would run better luck than the resolutions that appear to have preceded him in this Parliament. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.51.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.52.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs... Actually, this is the second consecutive motion we're talking about tourism; I don't rule out that there are any more before the session period ends, because, among other things, they can be perfectly complementary. You're right, Congressman Saladi when you say this isn't about the model. I think we should probably talk about a model, we need to clarify what model of the future we want for tourism in our country, but at the same time we cannot forget that now as we have the consequences of one, let us say it, a model of battle, to say it in some way, that it has been built at the length of years and that it effectively combines quality elements and sustainability elements with authentic urban, environmental and social disasters as a result of repeated misuses and of the economic pressure of easy gain that has been propitious for disorderly growth – I think that the MP Saladié has also set a clear example of this topic. And about these remains, in some cases with an obvious obsolescence, in others with a long period of maturity that we don't know where to end, and in other cases with incipient initiatives, caldria – caldria – act there with concrete policies. It is undeniable to us that tourism is an important sector of our economy. And it is undeniable, too, that it has enabled the economic survival of certain areas of the country, and even a social osmosis that in many aspects is positive, even though in others it has not been so much, as we have not talked here enough. Now, it is also undeniable that today it is still a massive economy of the season – still –, a massive economy exposed to the transitory nature of what we would say about the geopolitical developments around it, and a sector with still lax, yet permissive, massive regulation, still mass fields that have allowed abuses, and, what is worse, which they continue to allow. Therefore, from this perspective it is important that we end up defining, and as far as possible planning, a model that is sustainable – the word is key – that is respectful of the territory and the people, and, obviously, that I do not replace, in the development objectives, in no case the imprecise development of the industrial or primary sectors. And what is the basis and encouragement of its quality in relation to sustainability, sustainability, not just environmental sustainability, but in a broad sense, and so on, especially to the people who work there, because it is very easy to say: "Yes, yes, they have to have a few worthy ones, but then it is not possible to try to make the right ones apply to the sector. As a result, the proposals for strategic areas, sectoral territorial plans, innovation in the tourism sector seem correct to us, and they seem to us to be participative – all of which you have explained. And in the same way, we share the demands that have been made with regard to the submerged economy, fraud, job insecurity and the training of people working there. He will see, therefore, that the papers presented are – and that they have been accepted less – all add-ons. The first two relate to the type of public investment, and so we add the point that we are talking about helping to modernise obsolete establishments to those that are likely to compromise with the objectives of the World Charter on Sustainable Tourism, which are very concrete, not only sustainable, but also those that want to obtain responsible tourism certification. I mean, we can't solve the obsolescence on the one hand of our tourism on the basis of a model update, but on the basis of the model change we defined before. Thus, we propose that the public investment for this change is made to this responsible and sustainable tourism, that it recognizes the social values of the place of state, that it promotes, that it facilitates access to culture and that it does so in a shared way between the states and the residents, that I believe is the line of the model change that we propose. The third point relates to the proposal for a decree on tourist accommodation regulations, in which we believe that there are no specifics: we believe that there is a need for regulation in relation to establishments, in relation to accommodation, in relation to tourist accommodation, and we believe that it is necessary to make clear that there are municipal competences in these areas that are important, and we ask that they be included. We ask that we offer solutions to the pressure they exert on people living in high concentration tourist areas – precisely, this lack of definition and insecurity with regard to this type of accommodation. And for this very reason, the following topic relates to the support and the need for collaboration with the municipalities, with no competition – collaboration – because they can develop specific urban plans on tourist accommodation. Finally, the last point is an addition to his proposal to increase inspection in order to avoid fraud and job insecurity, so as to review, also, the correct application of sectoral agreements, especially in the case of subrogations. Strangely enough, this one you didn't accept, because it seems to have required the acceptance of Juntes for the Yes, which seems to be that he didn't want it. And I ask: is the SCP not in agreement to ensure that it is in compliance with sectoral agreements and Joints for the Yes either? I don't understand why you don't get it. All this, as I said, we agreed with what they originally proposed, and therefore we do not accept it except that we can vote for it, because we already agreed initially. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of the whole package of your motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.53.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, to fix his position, has the word Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.54.0	Thank you, President. Members, Councillor, the motion put to us by the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, I call it the 'oxygenated motion'. And I'm going to explain myself – I'm going to explain myself – because it's such a generalist motion, so uncommitted, so hard to amend... You'll say: "Well, you could have done something. It was very complicated, Mr Bruguera; very complicated, because you are moving in the field of vagueness and generalities. And with a clear purpose, that to me, at least, I do not escape; as I said: give oxygen to the Government – and now I will go into detail – and at the same time to Mrs. Colau, with whom her party governs in Barcelona. Therefore, you have wanted to please everyone, and that in politics, as in life, is impossible, fix what I tell you. So, I also want to give you a touch. I've followed your inquiry. Man, you in the debate you had with the counselor criticizes labor reform when the results are there. The Champions of Unemployment: Are you going to criticize the results of unemployment? They could be better, of course, and we could be prettier, taller, but the reality is that labor reform has worked, so that argument declines, even if only because of the brute reality. And as I said, it is a motion that gives oxygen to the government, indeed. Of course, political action needs planning. Of course, strategic plans must be drawn up; in fact, it is in article 131 of the Spanish Constitution and, therefore, that is a fundamental mission that the political action of any responsible and competent government must undertake. But also – also – we have to invest, we have to allocate resources, and in that the Generalitat and the budgets do a weak favor to the necessary concern, the necessary interest, the necessary involvement that must be carried out by the government in what is the promotion of the tourist activity. And this, unfortunately, has not been much in the debate either. Then planning, perfect. But, as I was saying, if the planning isn't done, then turn it off and let's go. Because, of course, Mr Bruguera, as I was saying... Socialist Group, huh? I don't want to customize it in Mr Bruguera so he doesn't think there's any kind of animating, I say because he's the author, in any case, I imagine, of the text. But, as I said, the Socialist Group somehow gives you, well, that's the option for the government to say: "Well, now you can present the strategic plan in the second half of 2017. Man, we're late, actually. Here Mrs Candini said that the government, that the councillor is working at a standstill. Well, of course, planning not, because the plan should have already been brought to the camera, and that hasn't been the case. So, of course, the motion somehow gives him oxygen, it gives the Government a hand when he should have been harshly criticized for that political failure, which seems to us to be relevant. On the other hand, he also said: the motion gives oxygen – also the Socialist Group – to Mrs Colau, in Barcelona City Council, indeed. Because we're seeing that they're ruling with her and Barcelona has no name. What is happening in Barcelona, what is happening in the city of Barcelona, is tourismophobia, and no one criticizes it with enough force. They have the tourist sector in Barcelona on a war footing. And here, too, the government must avoid responsibilities; it will say: "We respect local autonomy. Man, but the control action, the guardianship action, the collaborative action that the Generalitat also has in such policies is there, and they are not exercising it either. Therefore, it seems to me that, in any case, of course, the fact that we subscribe to tourismphobia when what needs to be done is to be more imaginative and less prohibitive..., I understand that it is the line that should follow the political action of both the Generalitat and the municipalities. I'm finishing up, because time is so demanding. The rest of the motion we are going to support; therefore, I know that we are not going to steal that support from you, but because of the shortcomings of the motion and above all because of the lack of involvement and commitment. And we do want to say that, in relation to what is the necessary intensification and reinforcement of the inspection actions in the fight against fraud..., it is decisive. The submerged economy must be combated without barracks. Therefore, the Generalitat, the department, must allocate all resources at its disposal to make that a reality. Therefore, in the end, and to end the intervention, we support the motion, but we ask, as I say, for a clearer, more explicit and, above all, more committed model. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Rafel Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.56.0	Thank you, President. To Mr. Santamaría, simply, without wanting to enter into controversy, I would ask him if he had had occasion to speak with the autonamemenades « kellys, with the floor cleaners. And in any case, that there might have been some stuff, which is the only group that hasn't. Respecting the debate growth, decline, sustainability, etc., allow me to set two examples. First, my people, the Scale, probably don't have to grow any more – and, if they want, it has to decrease – in second residence, but surely it has to grow in hotel seats. So don't generalize, please – don't generalize. Second – among comets, I have invented myself –: this month of August has increased to the Costa Brava a 5_per_cent the number of tourists. According to the statement – in parentheses, I do not invent it –: the month of May passed, the previous, to the Costa Brava has decreased in a 5_per_cent the name of tourists. Well, that's what we need to get. We are not doing well if the month of May decreases and the month of August increases. And that's what happened, counselor: this May the Costa Brava has received less tourists than last year. And so, when we talk about sustainability, when we talk about rebalancing, when we talk about deseasonalizing, we're talking about this, we're talking about what we need to get the months that aren't the end of, we can improve the offer and the demand, huh? We're talking about this. And I just end up saying that in this variable geometry that we have to use because all the parliamentary groups except the People's Party have submitted papers – and, more importantly, we have put them in place and I have to thank all the groups – I have to say that there were transactions that were to be signed between three parliamentary groups and, therefore, it has not been possible in all cases..., despite the fact that both Mr Saladié and Mr Vidal know that for our part there would not have been any inconvenience in incorporating any of the papers that could not be incorporated, but at the end of the day I believe that there has been a pro-road movement. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.57.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.58.0	Yes, Madam President, to request a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.59.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.60.0	... of point 5a. And for a few brief allusions in relation to Mr Bruguera, very brief.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.61.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.62.0	Thank you, President. Mr Bruguera, if a parliamentary group does not table amendments, it should, in this case, be proud: it means that the motion can be supported. What happens, that the motion, I insist, when what it tries to do is to please everyone, then, indeed, why amend it? If that's what it's all about, isn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.63.0	Mrs. Candini, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.64.0	In order to ask for a separate vote also on the 5 bis point – the Member has already said – and on the 4 – 4 and 5 bis point. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.65.0	Okay. Mr. Saladié, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.66.0	To ask for a separate vote, too: from points 5, 6, 7 and 8. And they could vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.67.0	Five, six, seven and eight.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.68.0	And they can vote together. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.69.0	Points 5, 6, 7 and 8 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Or go on, we'll vote 5, 6, 7, 8 together, 5a and 4, because it's the votes they've asked for. Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start by voting these together: 5, 6, 7, 8; after 4, after 5 a.m., and after the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] So, we're voting points 5, 6, 7 and 8. The vote begins. Points were approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 58 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 5a point. The vote begins. Point 5 bis was rejected by 25 votes to 77, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Tourism has been approved by 118 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into co-education]] [[302-00163/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on co-education presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, as always, they already know that they demand that they leave in a hurry and in silence in order to continue with the session. [[Long break.]] Quiet, and please. Mrs. Albiach, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.70.0	Yes, thank you, President. As the young lady already has it, and the other day we explained a little to the question that was the object of this young man, I will take advantage of my intervention to say two things. The first is that, after the question I asked fifteen days ago, I started on certain social media messages that came to say the following: "If the women aren't in the textbooks, it's because you don't have to be there, because you haven't done much to the story, have you? Then I would like to take advantage of this intervention to respond quickly. [[The joker laughs.]] You don't look at me with this face; I'm looking at Anna Simó, who is like "cannot be; so, yes – yes, yes – passes. Then, if these people don't know, then we'll explain it briefly. At the universities of the world is the women's studies; here we have groups at the University of Barcelona on university research of philology and genera, of women and literature, but more can also consult the five volumes of the History of Women to the West. Therefore, here they have camp to run and to learn what we've been doing to women far from the story. But I would insist more on what I said the other day: what they do and above all what the women have done has been systematically oblivious to the hegemonic part of the academy. The other day I've already given a few examples, and today I'm going to add a couple more. Maria Lejárraga wrote many of the plays that her husband, Gregorio Martínez Sierra, signed, but today we already know that part of Einstein's trolls is due to her first wife, who was Mileva Marić, who was also physical, and in the end everything was attributed to Einstein. But it's that, besides, text books never talk about which is the situation of the community, which is the subsistence... And we should consider whether it is more important what the great figures of patriarchy – the kings, the generals – or the history of the communities, and, as I said, of their subsistence have been made. Because, besides, it's not a matter of adding to the history of always the history of women as if it were an addition, as if it were a complement, but that what it is to rewrite the history and change the history where it is present the daily life of the people, their problems, and that their contributions are in the center, right? Pretending that the history of men and, in our case, of Western white men, and even now heterosexual, is the great universal history is the great lie of the world, and to disassemble this lie we need to do pedagogy and we believe that it must start from the schools. And the second thing I wanted to say in this first intervention, which will be very short, is to give thanks. Thanks to all the people who have struggled for decades to defend the right to whom we want to be, to estimate who you like; people who have been retaliated for having esteemed, for having planted in front of the masculist and homophobic attacks, people who have been persecuted and murdered, people who have lost their lives for intolerance and alien misunderstanding. We wanted to thank all of them for their struggle and for showing us the true meaning of the words "proud, "freedom and dignity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.71.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.72.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen... If what concerns us is to improve society so that anyone, whether male or female, can develop their talents, qualities, aspirations, tastes, in that they will find us. If what worries us is that any student, whether child or girl, finds in the educational system opportunities, stimuli, tools to become an accomplished, happy, recognized person, who contributes to society, in that they will find us. We believe in equal opportunities for departure, non-discrimination, non-exclusion, respect for the different. We believe in the obligation of a just and intelligent society that does not waste resources to remove any difficulty so that the only limitation to each person is that imposed itself. But if it is intended to apply anachronistic schemes, distort the reality of things, impose, prohibit and ultimately ideologize our schools with the alibi of defending women or diversity, in that they will not find us. It is simply the trap of political correction that we are not going to fall into. This motion does not resolve the causes of inequality or discrimination. It proposes recipes that have been applied for years, imposing themselves and failing, and all at the service of an ideology. In fact, by avoiding sexism without applying common sense it falls into it. For example, do girls not play football? Well, look, more and more, because they like it. We must not stigmatize, we must give more freedom. We will vote against organizing the courtyard according to fictitious spaces that rotate, appear or disappear according to the day of the week: let the children play in freedom, choose what they play, who they play with, where they play, without stigmatization. Or sexist language. Parliament's language services, which are quite clear, make this clear in this report: they do not advise on duplication; you know, pupils. Sorry, that was the motion, this is the report. In fact, they literally say that the unfoldings are "burdenful and repetitive, fan feixuga the reading, hinder the understanding of the text and oppose the principle of economy in language. Moreover, they add that the use of unfoldings « ends up having a segregating effect, because they represent the gifts as a subspecies of the joint, in a discriminatory way. And they clarify that the use of the generic male is a resource proper to the Romanesque languages because it is the weak gender. But Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, who knows more about languages than linguists, decides that it is better to invent and skip grammar in schools, a very own thing, even if there is a segregating effect. Our amendment, which wanted to incorporate this opinion of the linguists, has not been accepted. Or about the gender perspective in the books. Is there anything more segregating than forcing women to advertise? What needs to be done is for those who have contributed the most to knowledge to come out in the books, not to force the presence of women by weight. Nor has this amendment been accepted. I think we should be valuable, not like it, because no one has to give us anything. Or the macho violence thing. Why limit oneself to man as the strong one who abuses? And what about homosexual couples? Is it not sexist and anachronistic to exclude these relationships? Nor has this amendment been accepted. The part of teachers, very interventionist. We have wanted to eliminate ideological, authoritarian and party tics, but we have not been accepted. Emotional-sexual formation. We believe that it should not be imposed but rather promoted, adapted by experts to the maturity levels of each stage, and, of course, according to the educational project of each centre, respecting their autonomy and the right that parents exercised in choosing it. Nor have these amendments been accepted. The motion presented to us Catalunya Yes, it is Pot has a strong ideological, doctrinal, interventionist and even authoritarian burden. For example, interpreting co-education as synonymous with mixed education is simplistic. "To co-educate is synonymous with education on equal terms, without privileges or discrimination, and in this they will find us. But imposing on those who do not want it mixed education with the simplistic excuse that that is equal opportunities is authoritarian and violates two constitutional freedoms: that of teaching and that of choosing parents. And calling differentiated education "segregating is inocular ideology and distorting a reality that is not discriminatory. And since for us freedom is above simple, ideology and misrepresentation, we will vote against points 1 and 2. By the way, do you know that more women's technical vocations emerge than the mixed one? In short, none of our amendments have been accepted or negotiated, despite our willingness and willingness. And so, on these points... we will do a general abstention, all and that we could, some of us, vote in favour, because we share the objective of eradicating discrimination, harassment and segregation in schools, but we do not want to be accomplices to a motion that continues to distill in its language, solutions and background a project of ideological imposition throughout the educational system. In reality, everything is summed up in respecting everyone, without excluding anyone, precisely what Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has shown that it has no relation, for example, to the Catalans we represent. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.73.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words "Mrs. Marta Moreta", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.74.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... women are at the forefront of job insecurity, it seems that equality is not yet for us. And I'm saying that by linking it to what Mrs. Albiach was giving to the beginning: the fate is that they are only a few and reduced, let's hope it doesn't happen again. Just start here, because it seems hard, really. In various seminars and teacher trainings it is evident that there is a lack, a real lack, of gender content. In fact, if you leave me a little, in state class, there are forty-four universities that offer degrees of childhood education and primary education, and there is obviously an anecdotal presence of equal and gender content. In these forty-four universities, there are eleven that incorporate assignments with explicit contents of these two themes, and in the new of these, nine universities, they are a compulsory assignment. If universities have well deployed units of equality, and centres of study, and women's, genera, and research groups have been set up, the discourse of equality is not fully imbued with either the conceptions or the teaching practices. Absences in plans for the study of assignments and content on equality are accompanied by other problems that are not resolved; among others, the inclusion of a cascade of bibliographic references of the contributions of women in non-specific assignations of gender. And it's still mostly the feminization of the master's office, and that's very easy to see if we look at who teaches classes in our childhood and primary schools. These facts are accompanied and reinforced by the use of language, which excludes sexual difference. The consequence is that the formation of masters, we could say..., is said to be an excess of tolerance of inequalities in genera. Genre inequalities are not in order, they should not be, and they should not be excluded from political and pedagogical decision making. I would also like the Government, and taking advantage of the Councillor, to tell me why the orientations of the programme of improvement and innovation in teacher training are not followed – I know this is not a time to ask, but I take advantage of it. The debate is not closed and it is necessary to reactivate spaces of reflection shared between universities and schools – in the initial formation, in the permanent formation, during the course, in the summer schools – that allows us to show those invisible parts of the gene that have historically not been solved. The equality still has a long way to go, also in the formation of masters. Not everything is said and done to incorporate themes of co-education, equity and inclusiveness. Coeducation is not just mixed schooling; it is not just the organization of spaces, games and games of school centres, nor in different areas; it is not just the adaptation of graphic, written or oral language of school centres; it is not just the introduction in curricula to all levels of the gender perspective and the visibility of the contributions of women, nor is it the positive visualization of sexual, emotional and genera diversity. When we talk about coeducation, we talk about a cultural change, about values, about the world's vision of androcentric culture, centered on men. Coeducation is not just a mixed school, it's a very profound cultural change. Perhaps it is time to start talking about "equity", and that of "coeducation" we are leaving it. I'll make sure that some pedagogues and pedagogues in question this statement, but I, like the education professional, see it that way, and so I'll start talking about fairness. We need to talk about equality and equity, principles of equal opportunity, as a good friend of mine, Isabel Carrizo, says. And concretely in the papers, and finally, thank Congresswoman Albiach for allowing her to introduce all the papers. Just make a little point – and I'm done, president – that in one of the points we asked you to keep training and at this point you couldn't deal, and therefore we regret it. All in all, we'll vote in favour of all the papers and all the young people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.75.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. The words of Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.76.0	Thank you, Madam President. As there are still people who don't know that women have done many things along the way, I will begin by quoting a great woman, who is Simone de Beauvoir, perhaps better known as the philosopher, but also a great writer, with fantasistic works like The Broken Woman or The Farewell Ceremony. And I will begin by quoting his most well-known work, which is The Second Sex, which in the beginning of his volume II says: "So, passivity is a feature that has developed in it since its early years. But it is false to pretend that this is a biological fact; indeed, it is a destiny imposed on it by its educators and society. Almost seventy years have passed since the publication of this book, which was instrumental in the history of feminism, and many things have changed, fortunately, since then, even though some seem not to have known it. And, to begin with, it has obviously changed feminism, which has given place to practical differences and to different theoretical positions, sometimes faced between them. But despite this, I think everyone can agree on the importance of education and educators in the formation of gender roles. And that's why I want to especially thank Mrs. Albiach for presenting this motion, because it deals with a very important issue. And if there are people who say that to Twitter, it still becomes clearer that we need to talk about these issues. In one of the points of the young man's speech is about the need to organize the pati equitably. And this reminded me of a little anecdote that I wanted to share with you today: many years ago, more or less the course 2000, I was working at a school in Rubí; the duck was younger, actually it was the football track and a little more. Then, the children– in that case, Mrs Cuevas, there were only children playing football– occupied all the space, and the girls and the guys who did not want to play football were literally on the margins, plus, with the possibility that the women would take a flight, because the space was really small. So, I was guarding the ducks, looking at this, and I thought it was absolutely unfair, and I proposed that he alternate the days. At first he created a little reticence, it was approved and the truth is that it worked very well throughout the course. Then I didn't find myself again because at the other institutes I worked the truth is that the ducks were big and there wasn't that problem. It's been a long time, almost twenty years, and these practices have gone away, probably more to primary than secondary. But in any case, what is obvious is that there is a reflection on who occupies the space and why. In general, we are in agreement on this motion, and we have only presented three points. Two of these were to take the word "compulsory", because the faculty cannot be forced to take a concrete course, huh? And less in a time when they work more hours for less money. In fact, the young lady added a point that said it would already compensate in some way, but she wouldn't explain how, because there is no way; it's to say, neither can the teachers have more free days, nor can the lectual schedule be reduced. We would therefore like to thank those who are obliged to do so and to hope that as much as possible of teaching, on a voluntary basis, will be able to do this training. We also proposed adding a point on the subject of transgender students, because we think it is one of the great outstanding assignments of our education system, and we appreciate their acceptance. We will vote in favour of practically the whole motion, except points 1 and 2, because we consider these two points to leave many families uncertain, and this creates a problem. And we're more about solving problems than not creating them from us. And the truth is, changing the rules of the game half the game means leaving many families and especially the youngest. We have explained it many times: our model is mixed co-education, and we consider that this is what has to be borne with public money. But we can't change a state law from an autonomous parliament. This law must be changed working at the Congress, and not presenting a point of a motion to an autonomous parliament. And surely this is one of the problems of Podemos, that when they approach the debate education make it more ideological positions than non-pedagogical. And the initiatives that they present are more in line to finish with the concert than not to improve the conditions of the teacher; to finish with the barracks, as we have already done on different occasions; to enhance the teaching of the English, which we have also brought to this Parliament, or that the students may have free textbooks, which we have also brought to Parliament; in fact, now we know that we can, despite saying that they are defenders of the common good, are against the socialization of books, which costs a little to hear. In any case, we invite you to participate actively in the Congress of the National Pact for Education promoted for Ciutadans and to make pedagogical contributions to reach the maximum possible consensus among all political forces and to transform education in this country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.77.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. The words of Ms. Anna Simó, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.78.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... I know hard, Mrs. Albiach, how there are still people who deny the history of women and their role. And I also know hard that it's caricature, or that rave is taken over by the filles, or that feminist authority is involved that what we want is to place the women in their place, both in history and in the present and, above all, in the future. She said, Mrs Albiach, in her question that she did not want to make a sterilised debate – she told the councilwoman – but that she wanted to be practical, that she wanted to be direct, that she wanted to put in the way that this Parliament has approved in matters of co-education. In fact, on the way there is, in that mandated for legislation in the State, the LEC, the Law to eradicate male violence or the Law against homophobia. And it's also there approved for the government, especially – and there was also reference to the councillor – the Pla per la egalité de genere in the education system that was approved in the year 2015, and that was predicted to the LEC, which is 2009, and to the Pla stratègique de politiques de donnes de Catalunya, promoted by the Catalan Institute of Dones. Both you and the councilwoman have exposed the remaining change to the effective equality between men and women; as you have become clear in this first intervention you have made, so much remains to be done, Mrs. Albiach. But we also put into evidence – and I will not repeat what the counselor said – the way forward in the area of education, where it is important to review the focus of contents and teaching methodologies to advance in the construction of a new social contract between men and women, gender equity and absence of any discrimination and unequal treatment for gender reasons. Today among all the folds I think we have managed to make a new impulse to the path that remains to be made. And I want to thank you, Mrs. Albiach, too, for your willingness to reach this agreement. We have worked, our group, together with the Government and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the contents of this young man, that our group will vote favorably in all that granted, which are the points of 3 to 8. There are two points, the first and the second, which have been discussed and debated in full and committee a few times, also this legislature, very intensely, very repeated, and I hope that it will be the last, even though I don't know if it will be the last time we vote for it: I don't know what else they want us to argue, together for the Yes, or say. In any case, today we will return to voting differently between us, because there are two different points of view for the group: one that says that points 1 and 2 are contrary to what the LEC says and to current state legislation, and another that interprets that points 1 and 2 are precisely in line with what the LEC foresees following the consulting council's doctrine in its Opinion 294 on the LEC draft. That is why, Madam President, they call for a separate vote on points 1 and 2. And going back to that new and interesting for us, we celebrate that our contributions have been accepted and I would like to highlight some very quick questions. Point 3.1, the outer spaces of the centres: we share that we need to organize them so that they are really spaces of educational opportunities, of transformation and of coexistence, and above all to do so respecting the education project and the autonomy of the centres, in which we believe, as a parliamentary group, that is regulated in a decree of the year 2010, of deployment of the LEC. I wanted to point out that there is a specific space within the XTEC educational portal in materials for the use of education and co-education of external spaces. Or point 3.2, on the graphic language of the centres: refer to the existence of the Education Department Style Guide, which is from July 2015, also referring to linguistic uses in the educational centres..., graphs in the educational centres. Or point 4.1, according to the work of curriculum contents of affective and sexual education: there is a lot of material stuck, also, to the portal of the XTEC at the disposal of the centers; it is a good starting point, as are the curricula contents that there is in the primary and secondary area of knowledge of the natural environment and in the scientific and technological field, respectively. Or point 6: I think it's interesting that we could come to the conclusion that the departmental commission created for the follow-up of the Pla for gender equality in the education system and the evaluation memory that must be made every school year, so the instrument with which you follow the best approved in this young man. Or the concrete protocol for dealing with transgender students: there are already various materials on the XTEC portal and guidelines developed for the department that are in the documents for the organization and management of centers, dated June 22, 2017, pages 9 and 10, with all the detail for the centers for which it does the protocol of transgender orientations. In any case, I repeat: I believe that this is a good young lady, that she is doing very good work, that she can continue to do very good. And I want to thank, Mrs Albiach and the rest of the parliamentary groups, who have joined the House, for their work on this new social contract between men and women. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.79.0	Thank you, Mrs. Simó. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.80.0	Well, thank you, President. As you know, our parliamentary group, precisely this morning, has put an inquiry to the Government, to the Councillor of Education in the matter of school segregation; concretely, a series of reflections and proposals on how the education system must fight against the segregation that this system generates from among the system so as to contribute firmly to the struggle against social segregation. So, well, the reason we're here today is that we believe that it's entirely in the right sense on this line, that's to say, that it's a fundamental contribution, from the point of view of education, to this responsibility that the school system has to have to fight against social segregation. From this point of view, we must add to the congratulations and recognitions to the deputy Jessica Albiach, because she has done a very good job in the practicalities she proposes in this young man. Indeed, we think that the school system which makes a much firmer, much more determined contribution than it has done so far in the fight against patriarchy and against the reproduction of masculinism and patriarchy in society at large. And, therefore, this should start from the same school. We observe in a dramatic way patriarchal culture, as patriarchal relations today are reproduced among our school centres; this is a fact, which shows that the action of public policies in this brand is completely inadequate and that, therefore, can reinforce it. All the proposals that are put into this young man go in the right direction and go on the right path so that, effectively, the school, the school centres can become a public space, a social space to reinforce the equalization of the full equality between men and women, to live together in diversity and always with equity, and to respect and recognize all identities, all options and all sexual cultures between the same school space, that the school space is converted into an area of recognition, support, comfort and promotion of this diversity. And, well, for what it does to the point of the young man, we will vote in favour of everyone, also those who have traded, so we have not presented papers to this young man. And what it does to those points that have not been the object of consensus and that make reference to the question, to the debate between coeducation and mixed school, therefore, we will also vote in favour of what you propose. We know that we are proposing a public school deconcertization process at our home. We think it's a necessity to actually make a leap forward defined in the fight against segregation, and obviously for where we need to start is to disconcert the choices that secrete by sex, this is a fundamental step. We're the same as the LEC's and the sursoncord's, we're the same. We think that this is such an essential and common sense issue that we are late from the point of view of disobeying all that legislation and institutional imposition that goes against the common sense. Indeed, who wants schools that reproduce patriarchy, who pays for the feast, but who does not ask us for public resources to give continuity to this type of disproposal. And do you know what's going on, Mrs. Albiach? - Do you know what's going on? I am sure you agree with us that the issue of sex-secreting schools is part of the 78th Regime, part of the 78th Regime State Pact, and unfortunately also of the repercussions that this pact has had on autonomous Catalonia. And that's something we need to have a lot of, because, when we talk about breaking the 78th rule and overcoming the 78th rule, it also means overcoming it here, and breaking it here and releasing us - here. And that, among many other things, means saying goodbye to elitist schools, to schools that secrete by sex. Therefore, as we have already said, you can count fully on our support and the vote in favour of your proposals for this motion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.81.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.82.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly, because it has already been commented on. What we can do today is to set aside – and I do say to set aside, Mrs Simó, because there were actually many things approved but not applicable to the educational centres – a new distribution and occupation of space. And we like to put it down to centre autonomy, but it's that we gave it in fact, I mean, we didn't question it at the moment. The use of inclusive and non-sexist language at the centres, continue to insist on rewriting the history of gender justice, including as curricular content what we have previously referred to as the subject of emotional and sexual education, and to train the teaching staff and educational support in coeducation. And, Mrs Moreta, you don't know how badly I've had to bring in the mandatory word, but it's that it's not legally possible. And the subject of the non-renewal of the concerts of the schools that secrete by sex: it seems that it will again be stopped thanks to the People's Party, thanks to Ciutadans and, waiting to see what the vote of the PDECAT will be, but we already understand it, thanks to the PDECAT also. And we see how the right and the establishment alienate themselves, well, then, when they touch the foundations of the 78th Regime, as Mr. Riera commented. And from there, just thank the Navy and Mercé Otero for the collaboration they have given me in preparing the inquiry and the motion, and thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to sum up and the papers presented that have improved it. And we've done it with all the parliamentary groups, that's from the People's Party. I promise I've tried, we've been a long time talking to Mrs. María José García Cuevas, but as you said, it was impossible because we have irreconcilable postures. And I would only ask you that, since you are ruling in the State, you are doing the favor of adopting decent presuppositions for the struggle against male violence, but we did not expect any less, because you are the ones celebrating that a part of the Law of Equality of the Parliament of Catalonia is being suspended. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.83.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Once the debate is over, we are calling for the vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.84.0	Separate vote and a brief reply to the allusion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.85.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.86.0	I do not know whether it is clear that we are calling for a separate vote on points 1, 2 and 3.1, which can be voted on in one bloc, and for us, also the rest of the motion – 1, 2 and 3.1. And, well, tell the representative of Catalonia Yes, it's Pot that I'm very sorry that I didn't understand anything I explained – so what you said you didn't understand anything. And that, of course, the will to compromise and negotiate came from this group, as we said, to find a point of meeting, and of consensus and common sense, which, with apriorism, ideology, authoritarian tic and to impose on everyone what a part of society thinks, which is what Mrs Albiach reflects and what she did not want to accept, it has not been possible to reach the compromise. And, if not, for a show, then that: that it has been accepted at least to deal with all the groups less with the People's Party, despite the will that, I repeat, we have had. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.87.0	Mrs. Albiach, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.88.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.89.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.90.0	Yeah. Mrs García Cuevas, just one thing: please approve worthy budgets in the area of macho violence, because we are being killed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.91.0	Mrs. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.92.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.93.0	Points 1 and 2, yes. Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.94.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.95.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.96.0	Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.97.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1 and 2, and 3.1, which we will vote on separately, huh? Point 1, point 2, point 3.1, and then the rest of the motion, okay? [[Pause.]] So, we're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 65 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 65 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We will then vote on point 3.1. The vote begins. Point 3.1_was approved by 119 votes to 7, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on co-education was adopted by 118 votes to none, with 9 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public subsidies to private communication media]] [[302-00164/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on public subsidies to private media, submitted for the Popular Unity Application - Crida Constituent. To expose her, has the word Lord Albert Botran. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.98.0	Well, thank you, President... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.99.0	One moment, one moment, Congressman. I hope they're out, 'cause you're quiet. All right, Mr. Botran, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.100.0	All right, now, so. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament, Members of the European Parliament, at the 15-day inquiry, we pointed out that it was a problem of lack of transparency in the award of institutional publicity to media. The subsidies are public, but there is a problem, in institutional advertising, in knowing the final recipient: they are not data that publish the Administration, but they have had to tell some journalists. And why do we talk about public money in communication media more about advertising than about subsidies? So, because in the end, the volume involved in institutional advertising is larger than subsidies, and therefore, it has an even more decisive weight in the policy of helping the media sector. If we take the example of the two main diaris of Catalonia... So, for example, El Periodico, 2015 in structural aid– grant– was worth 460,000_euro; in institutional advertising, 3_million_i_mig. Well, that's according to Critic, 'cause we're insisting on it, huh? It's not like they're published for the government. I La Vanguardia, in structural aid it is worth 800.000 euros, while in advertising, 2,300.000 euros. Therefore, we accept it: in the support of media, institutional advertising is more important than subsidies. To a lesser extent, but also as a help to the media, there are subscriptions from the government and its public enterprises, and the second point of this young man, so he also asks for transparency in this sense. They see that it is a young man in whom we do not intend to completely change this dynamic, but what we want is to take a first step by asking for transparency, and a second step by asking for coherence to whom you are helping. Let us repeat what we said 15 days ago: public money in private media means whether it is for the protection of minority languages, or for the protection of pluralism, or for the protection of an industrial sector that can go through a crisis. In languages it is a totally objective criterion, it is clear; in pluralism, therefore, it is obviously a more subjective and problematic criterion. Since it has been twenty-five years since the Garzón operation, for example, when women remember what happened that day, those days, we must worry, therefore, about the police mountainage, we must worry that the Civil Guard tortured the detainees, we must worry that the State did not investigate the tortures, and later it was condemned by the Court of Strasbourg, but we should worry that in that there was a silence almost unanimous media. Today, pluralism in media is a good greeting, because, in part, the emergence of digital media has opened up excletxes, and also the existence of community media with a certain strength, so it also makes it possible to enrich this pluralism. But to whom public money may require more compromise in this sense. For example, in the incorporation of women into their spaces of opinion, and this is already said to be an effective law, on 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men; a pluralism which must also be expressed in its highest degree in the campaign for the referendum of October 1, which we want to see as simple and normal, both for itself and for the non, and a pluralism which also has to be seen with the journalistic quality of the contents, and, therefore, in the working conditions of the professionals. Finally, in the third motion we say, which is the protection, therefore, of an industrial sector, what also seems to us to be an inconsistency is that a means by which public money is used to maintain precarious working conditions for its workers or employees. Let's hope, then, that we can approve all these points and put a first stone from this institution, and then, too, after which the rest of the institutions will have to go to help the communication media, starting with the assemblies and the congresses. A first step, we say, of transparency, and all that followed, from here, can redefine the legal framework to establish which is better to grant grants and publicity, and how to grant because it is complete with public service objectives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Next, to defend the papers presented by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.102.0	Thank you, President. Miri, I quote. President Forcadell said the other day, at the release of the Quim Regàs awards, of democratic quality, that the democratic quality of a country is measured by the independence of its media. He insisted that he should defend the rights and freedoms of journalists because he is the same as defending the rights and freedoms of the citizenry, and he said that he must be very fond of the abuses of power and the violation of rights against journalists, coming from political or economic power. So, well, we understand that the CUP's motion goes, in good part, also in this sense: to make it possible to buy the wills of communication media, political powers in this case and from institutions, from public resources, with grants, with institutional advertising or with other lives, such as subscriptions. In this sense, we fully share the experience of good part of these proposals, some certainly included in the proposal of law that we have made Catalonia Yes, it can modify audiovisual laws, that sleep the sound of the righteous while we are working in joint ponència. But I'm saying this because it's probably because we're focusing on other elements together, by everyone's consent, but it's probably gonna make this issue stand still, and it's definitely in the law where we can and should settle it, beyond the political motions, right? , as this one sets us up today with the CUP, but that they end up depending on the political will of the execution to execute them and last them to term, and, in change, shielding it in a more effective way would introduce it with modification into the law. We have the way: there is a law sleeping the sound of the righteous in Parliament that precisely proposes some of the measures that the CUP today places on this young man. We also fully agree on the experience of the other side of this motion, which Mr. Botran explained, of the need for greater transparency in this area, especially for what he does to institutional advertising and subscriptions. We have said this repeatedly and we are pleased that today we can reiterate it again with this CUP motion. There is, however, a point in which we do not agree, in this young man, the point of controversy; surely, in the rest of the interventions of the groups, therefore, it will also be pale. It's sub-point 2.d, in which we made a concrete statement. We cannot approve the final wording that has remained of the CUP drafting transaction with the Junts message for the Yes, because we are talking – so that the people who do not have the text of the motion at the front know – to demand that the communication media that accept institutional advertising should also publish institutional advertising about the October 1 referendum, literally according to what you are planting. Mirin, the day of today, without knowing the guarantees governing the call, when there is no such thing as the 1st of October, the situation to us to which it leads is to predict scenes that we do not want or desire – and we fight because it is not produced, but it is to predict them – in which we end up causing a problem to the communication media, with this point: to put them in the fabric of having to triage – I speak in its usual terms of the process – between one legality and the other; to put them in the problem, if there is not sufficient guarantees from the Catalan government, and for another band we have a state that up to ban until and the whole publicity or dissemination of the call that has been made for the 1st of October, to put the message before the press. We do not want to work together to put this problem in the communication media, and therefore we will abstain at this point, and also at the next, because it refers to this, basically – at point 3. We would have liked it better if we had accepted our message, which is very clear and we believe that we should respond to what the Government should be doing, that it is to have a point of the State of Catalonia completed, Article 52, that the Government must veto the guarantee of the right to information to citizens, and that this right is guaranteed when the information and contents, the dignity of people and political, social, cultural and religious pluralism are respected. We believe that, at a time like the present, this is what most certainly needs to be guaranteed in the private communication media sector: that we are not, as is the case now, subsidizing certain media, especially digital ones, lack of rigour, lack of truthfulness, and let us not say pluralism, decent working conditions or professional conditions. For this reason, our other point, which has been accepted and incorporated, respects respect – worth the redundancy – to the code of ethics of the sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.103.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. The words "Mr. Jordi Cuminal", of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President; Counsellor; Secretary of Diffusion, Mr. Molons; Members of Parliament... In this session today there will be a moment of parliamentarianism of the one who everyone leaves the party interests to the band and strives to reach pacts and among all the better proposals that are being made. I think this will pass today, but this moment will not pass now; I'm sure it will, but unfortunately it won't pass now. The reason the CUP was setting up is interesting, and I think that they're setting up the plans that they're expressing is proving it. And we're very much in agreement with Juntes for the Yes on the ground that this young man poses. We detected some form problems; we detected some problems that could be taken advantage of by some to seek a controversy where it is not, and that is why we have tried to make contributions that can improve it or facilitate consensus. Specifically, we've made six statements. Some are more technical. I will not go in there to avoid spending time on quite specific topics at the technical level; I will focus on three phonenal concepts. The first, the clear will of transparency. In the Law of Transparency, in the subsidies to the media, in anything the Government of the Generality does, the most interested – like all, surely – in the maximum transparency we are. They have some intervention, and now we won't have time, it would be interesting to have a debate some day about the relationship between transparency and lack of confidence forever, and if that's good for politics and for the health of institutions, but right now I don't have time to put myself a little. But I think it's a plan that we'd have to propose, because sometimes we'll manage everything with transparency and teaching everything, and we'll forget enough to remember how we have to transfer trust between us and trust from institutions to our citizens. But that's for another day. We had a lot of interest in differentiating subsidies from institutional advertising, because in the initial setting up of the Albert Botran, of the CUP, it was quite a little. The Government is interested in companies that at these times have general economic difficulties, such as communication media, that are sustainable. Therefore, it is aided in the form of subsidies, with clear, transparent, equal standards for everyone, etc., which have not varied in mass governments which govern because they are technically well-governed, so this is the subsidies and this helps the media to wander forward. But institutional advertising is not a way to subsidize media: institutional advertising is done because institutions explain what they do and why they do it to the citizen. This was one of..., to clarify this..., that for us it was a mischief. And for the other, what Mrs. Ribas said might generate controversy, right? What does it mean to accept institutional publicity from the government? And here I want to underline – and that is why I said that there may not have been enough parliamentarianism – that we have gone from saying that accepting advertising forced the media editorial line to defend a specific position, to saying that media must freely decide whether or not they accept the advertising campaigns of the Generality. What the young man says is just that, and so let's stop looking at him politically and look at him with a commercial relationship. There are media – radios, newspapers, televisions – very progressive, or at least identify themselves as very progressive, which accept advertising from energy companies, and finance companies, and banks and real estate. And if you look at the editorial line of these media, they don't agree with everything that these companies advertise, but it's a commercial contract, in which the only decision is: "Do I accept or do I not accept this advertiser from my company? – this is institutional advertising. So, what they have to decide is whether or not they accept the Generality as an advertiser among their... I've talked about the most progressive media, and what it was about legality or things that can be claimed, could we also talk about conservative media and see that in their pages... as in euphemism? "Relax? , "contacts? This is what the medium has to decide: whether or not he accepts a type of advertiser. One time it is accepted, and if it is accepted all this, with more motivation it is to accept, only would it be lacking, the institutional publicity of the Government of our country – only would it be lacking. Therefore, the substantial change is: accepting institutional advertising does not force the editorial line of the media to change or a little. And I think that in this, read as it has changed, and with a good effort on the part of the CUP, that's where we could all agree. Certainly today, as I said, or at this concrete moment, it is not the time of parliamentarism; some should be able to make some kind of speeches that can generate controversy. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.105.0	Thank you, Mr. Cuminal. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.106.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Vice-President, councillor, deputies, deputies, people to accompany us... Well, first of all, I think it is fair to congratulate Deputy Botran for the work on this motion. We will agree on most points of transparency. I believe that those who do have credibility in these matters have to work hard on transparency; those who have ruled for so long, directly subsidising media and those who are directly controlling television, because they do not have that credibility in this respect, and therefore I think it is good that those who do have it in this matter, and therefore congratulate you on that proposal. I also believe that the Government and Mrs Munté's office are doing so badly with TV3 that they have agreed to the entire opposition, including the CUP. I believe that this is also – before, that Mr Cuminal spoke of 'parliamentarism' – positive for parliamentarianism, in this case because of the evil they do, not because of the good they do. But, in any case, it is good that all the opposition to the whole, including the CUP, agree on many issues; we only need to see the corporate control sessions, where the group that supports the government stays, logically, alone. For a moment I thought, it is also true, in this motion that we would talk about serious issues, only serious issues, such as transparency, but the monotheme already knows that it always has to be there. And, indeed, there is a point where we are talking about another 9-N bis campaign, which is what we are going to, so you tell us these days. But we are going to vote against that point. We're going to vote against that point basically because it's already done every day, that campaign on TV3, 9-N bis. Therefore, it makes no sense for us to vote on a motion in which we approve a campaign on 9-N when every day TV3 is campaigning already on 9-N. We would therefore be voting in favour of something you already do, and we believe that it is not serious. And already, allow me, to finish..., well, as I say, we will vote against those points that refer to a campaign that already exists and is permanently on TV3, which is the 9-N bis campaign. But, if I may have a thought beyond the motion, which I believe is important for us all to do, and it is that the TV3 motions in this Parliament, forgive me the expression, but they serve no purpose. We will approve today's motion, I hope, on transparency. I've already congratulated you. I think there's a lot to do to correct so many years of Convergence finger grants, there's a lot of work. But – call me illusory – when we make a motion related to TV3, it stays in a drawer, it always stays in a drawer. In fact, on 6 April this Parliament adopted a motion which had two very simple points, among others, which spoke, on the one hand, of the reprobation of the director of TV3; you know, that director who has insulted directly political parties sitting here and who we defend democratically ideas, who makes acts against the ANC, the director of TV3; that same director of TV3 who insults directly and acts against the stellate, this Parliament decided that we had to reproach him. Well, well, there's still that motion in a drawer. And besides, also, in that same motion, as you recall, there was talk of resignation... You know, that verb, "to resign: it is a verb that is in disuse in Spanish politics, and in particular in this Parliament we also have very recent cases. And Mrs Llorach's resignation was requested, a resignation in which all the opposition, along with the support of the UPC, understood that it was necessary because this lady said that she came temporarily and has been screwed in the chair..., a year and a half, will do. And we understand, this Parliament, in a democratic way – you, who are so democrats – that what was to be done was to resign. Well, well, did Mrs. Llorach resign? No, no, Did the director of TV3 fail? No, no, Has this Parliament decided democratically? Yeah. Therefore, allow me to suspect that these TV3 motions have little to go through; I don't know why, but in that drawer where you have the law of transitoryity you also put the TV3 laws and the TV3 motions, and lock them up, and lock them up. So, will we approve the motions that speak of transparency? Of course. But Mr. Botran, I think – I think – you are going to stay in the drawer again, and that, just as Mrs. Llorach continues to collect your salary, just as Mr. Sanchis continues to lecture with the ANC, so this motion is going to be forgotten. And I think it is serious for parliamentarianism – you talking about ‘parliamentarism, Member of the Council – that what is decided democratically stays in a drawer. So, especially for those who distribute democrats' notebooks, especially for those who say that there is only democracy if a 9-N is repeated and those who do not want to repeat a 9-N are not democrats and we are the man of the sack, for all those, to tell them that the first thing to do is to accept the democratic votes of Parliament. And if we accept the democratic votes of Parliament, the director of TV3 has to go home, Mrs Llorach has to go home and, as Mr Botran points out, I agree with him, there has to be more transparency, too, in public subsidies. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.107.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Mr. David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.108.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, Counselor, Authorities, to position us, quickly, on the issues and transactions to which the company has come, Mr. Albert Botran. From the start, congratulate him. I think it's a young man who could practically be approved for unanimity, especially the first point. All that is claimed more transparency in the accessibility of data, and the subsidy and institutional publicity to the Government, has united in this Parliament to demand more transparency in these data. Also in the second point, especially that which refers to the equality of men and women, to the labor rights, to the addition of the emena of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot of codes of ethics, etcetera. Therefore, this young man could be approved practically for unanimity. But, of course, there's a part of Dr. Jekyll, which is so far, but there's a part of Mr. Hyde, too, in this young man, isn't there? , which is to say: "Well, but all that, if the media agree to advertise the October 1 referendum. You see, we have the opportunity to approve this motion for unanimity of practically all political forces, if we withdraw these five words. Do you want to do it or not? Is there this will to do it, yes or no? [[Pause.]] Oh, because it's... so, perfect. But it looks like it's our fault. No, no, it's not our fault– no, it's not our fault. The blame is on those who want to move the conflict to public and private media. And now they're going to have a conflict. Because, no, it's "if I don't campaign a referendum, if it's illegal today, they won't give me the grant and they won't advertise me, and I'm forced to do it, if they don't take it all away from me. A reference that, at this hour, is illegal. And to elevate to the category of institutional campaign that of the reference of '1 October, which, I remember, is not yet called, therefore, is not true. It is not true, because the Law of Institutional Campaigns which is approved in this Parliament and which is in force speaks of that the campaigns cannot be partyists, and this would be a partyist campaign – yes, partyist. And he also says that the campaigns must agree with the respect of legality and constitutional order, huh? I said the Law, which we have approved, 18/2000, of institutional campaigns of the Government: doing all things respecting legality and constitutional order. Therefore, we are not before an institutional campaign, we are talking about something else, something else that will create conflict in public media. And as well as all the people who have spoken, a clearly delicate issue at this time in this country, which is happening in the communication media. I, over, we're coming, pam! , and we create more conflict– more conflict– : we also transfer the conflict of the country to the media. It's a mistake; honestly, it's a mistake. Therefore, we will vote in favour of all sides, let's say, of Doctor Jekyll who has the motion, on the part, let's say, of greater transparency, of the effective equality of men and women, of labor rights, of codes of ethics. But we will vote against everything that is still being asked to media the acceptance of advertising if they also have related campaigns to communicate everything necessary for the proper functioning of the own October 1 referendum. Regarding point 3, we also want to vote in favour, it is an absolutely voteable point; what happens is that, if point 2, we cannot vote in point 3. If point 2 is approved, as it seems that it will be, we cannot vote for point 3; that is, point 3 because, let's say, it would also contain the whole '1 October campaign, and we can't do it. Therefore, Madam President, simply announce the separate vote for point 2.d and point 3. And so are the announcements that at these two points we will vote against it. All the rest of the House, we'll vote for it. A lot of five words that insist on creating conflict, honestly, we think there is no conflict there. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Perez. For the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia had the intervention of Mrs Esperanza García, but I see that she is not in the room, right? [[Pause.]] Juan Milián, then.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.110.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, MPs, MPs, the CUP presents us with a little make-up where it talks about transparency and code of good practices; but already without mask, face-to-face discovery, the motion of the members of Convergence and Esquerra Republicana urges the Government to only extend subsidies, aid, to communication media that defend determined political thinking. This point is so hard, it's an attack on press freedom so brutal that I could end my speech here myself. It's just like this thought whether it's independent or non-independent, on the reels or on the left: to think that only the media that defend what the government dictates can help is an attack on press freedom. And all democrats must say no; the cause of freedom calls on us and moves us to say no to what they propose that the temptations of political power, in this independent case, further constrain Catalan society. And it's that you understand pluralism as a problem for your total objectives and that's why you need to end the open society. Like the truth makes them, because the truth makes us free, they need to drive the Catalan society and lock it in a space where only their propaganda is heard. In short, they want pluralism to be reduced to a small space between nationalism and independence. They are sending a very clear message to the communication media: either it is converted into the written arm of political power or it does not deserve to exist. Either they behave like Granma or Pravda or they will be punished without subsidies. What will be the next? Push the taxes to which the stellate has not been pinned to its balcony? Withdraw the public toilet to which no September 11 manifests? In fact, the assumptions of this year's CUP have lowered the weight of sanitation and have carried out the breakout of schools in order to increase propaganda and subsidies to these communication media that repeat the government's messages. It is noted that you have abandoned Marx and launched into the arms of Gramsci, that extreme left-handed Machiavel. They are equal to the situation of the working class, cultural hegemony is the key to achieving absolute power. Mirin, you like to quote Hugo Chávez and Nicolás Maduro ; today, who have already dealt with all the mascara, you will also be able to quote the Venetian dictator who at the February of 2014 cried out to the press about « his time will come. With the policy of the government of the CUP, at the first free will also arrive his hour. Ladies and gentlemen, freedom of press is one of the most valuable pillars of democracy. Today this is attacked by the world by populisms of all colors – left, right –, however, the object of populism is always the same: to achieve unlimited power, whatever its institutional, social or economic cost, and press freedom is an obstacle in its full route. Therefore, populism is a frontal attack on the principles of Illustration: appealing to feelings and converting those who think differently into enemies, it blurs the liberal idea of reasonable pluralism. Some do not need to repeat every second that we are very democrats, among other things because we do not make liberticid proposals like this, but today we want to take care of freedom and democracy we have to plant and say a « not very clear to the CUP. No transactions, no exams, no makeup. Not a step back in defending freedom and democracy. You'll need to go back to the classics, read about John Stuart Mill's freedom and strengthen the idea that without press freedom there's no future worth it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.111.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word "Mr. Albert Botran".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.112.0	Well, thank you. Well, regret that it seems that the People's Party..., we will not count on its help to approve a motion that speaks of help to the media. I understand that the day we talk about helping literary creation will be especially interested in the fictional genera, in which you excel in some of your interventions here in the Faristol. Unfortunately, other Members also seem not to have read the motion well or to have read first the news that is being made through a fairly scavenged, quite sensationalist headline, and then read the motion. In any case, it was never about the editorial line of the media, was it? It was mentioned that, if institutional advertising were to be accepted, the institutional advertising of the reference was also institutional advertising and it was also necessary to have a place between the pages of the newspapers, or the minutes of radio broadcast or of what is dealt with. Some read the news first and after the motion, but at least they read the motion. I think Mr. Fernando de Páramo didn't even run the show, because, well, he's been talking about TV3 for five minutes, and he's a young man focused on helping private media. TV3 has a lot of problems but they went for another channel, here we were talking about public money that went to private media. And finally, about the question of point 2.d, actually, which is the polemic. You don't say anything other than what the audio-visual communication law says in an article of yours, which says: "The government, when it puts in institutional publicity, the media will accept it. Of course, we are also doing this in relation to the reference. But this ballman who helps build the PP to facilitate repression, right? , this man of ball who is independence, who seems to force the directors of the media to do certain things, allows him, for another band, that the repression of low intensity vaguely occurs. And here no media director has already been required, but yesterday five public workers took over the visit of the Civil Guard. Is that even normal? Is that quite normal, to organize a reference? What we want is that we can organize with normality. [[some applause]] and that the conflict – that effectively conflicts – is a democratic conflict between the supporters of yes and no, and that both can express in the public and private media of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Once the debate is over, let's call it a vote. Mr. Cuminal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.114.0	For contradictions and allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.115.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.116.0	Mr. Juan Milián, hearing you speak of press freedom, I can only say one thing: go to the cinema and take advantage of it to watch the film that was presented yesterday from the interior keyposts, and, then, go talk about freedom, and press freedom and democratic guarantees, etc. [[Greetings.]] And he contradicted it, with Mr. Perez. They don't make him say things he doesn't say, the proposal. We could have left without a few words: « If the media are committed to accepting all the campaigns that the government is carrying out. All right, they agree here. Does the CUP's willingness to trade add to the relationship with what happens to the reference? Yes, it's all of them... they're all of them, and they're from the forest campaigns, from enrolling children in school and from the referendum: if it's promoting the democratic participation of the people of Catalonia, it's a government campaign. And when we say "parliamentarianism," Mr De Páramo, we go to P3: let's read our motions before going out to the Faristol, because you talk about TV3 when it was private media. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.117.0	Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.118.0	For a point of order, very clear. I do not understand that Mr. Cuminal has had his time to speak to the Faristol and then alludes to all parliamentary groups. You told him 30 seconds, but the Lord speaks two minutes, and I think that's not the procedure. And then, if you allow me to intervene [[Funnel veils]] – if I am left by the vice president, who is a little nervous– for the allusions of Mr. Cuminal, tell Mr. Cuminal that I do not need to defend TV3 every day, that I do not need to defend the government every day, that TV3 is already able to defend itself and, certainly, does very badly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.119.0	You've also exceeded thirty seconds. Nothing's happened. Mr. Milián, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.120.0	For allusions of the Lord Cuminal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.121.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.122.0	Mr. Cuminal, I am grateful that a Member of the Convergence Committee feels pleased when I have only spoken of the UPC. What I'm worried about is that you're also imitating the UPC and telling us what we need to see and what we don't need to see. I don't like these strategies against democratic opposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.123.0	Separate vote from points 2.d and 3. Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.124.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.125.0	Point one, too. Or is it possible to vote separately on point 1 and then together on 2nd and 3rd? [[Pause.]] Why can't all three vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, All right, all right. We'll vote point 1, 2.d and 3 together, and after the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote point one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We will continue to vote together on points 2.d and 3. The vote begins. Points were approved by 69 votes to 50, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Public Subsidies to Private Media has been approved by 119 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at one in the middle and eleven minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon and one in the minute. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Major and the Lluís Palomares Amat.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.126.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. Before we begin, in the name of the chamber I would like to greet the victims, the relatives of the victims, the presidents and presidents and the members of the memorialist entities and all the people who here in this room and also in the other two rooms that have enabled us to accompany us on this historic day that the Parliament of Catalonia will repair the victims of the Francoism. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Proposition of the law of legal reparation of the victims of the franchise]] [[202-00029/11]] Discussion and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency on the proposal for a law on the legal reparation of victims of the franchise. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of Mrs Montserrat Palau, who has been appointed by the rapporteur. It has the word, therefore, the lady Montserrat Palau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.127.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies... and, above all, obviously, as the Speaker of the Parliament has done, a very emotional greeting to the representation of historical memory entities and to victims, and relatives, of the Francoist councils you are accompanying us today. Thank you for your presence, as I am the protagonists of this proposal for the legal reparation of the victims of the franchise. This first intervention is like the rapporteur on the question of the law, to explain and summarise the work due to the end. Then, the different parliamentary groups will make our comments, appreciations and positioning. This proposal of law, driven by various entities of historical memory, with the Commission of Dignity in the front, was presented by three parliamentary groups: Junts per el Sí, Catalunya Yes it is Pot and the CUP - Crida Constituent. She was admitted to court in May 2016, and her trial was approved in the House of Commons on October 19 of that same year. The February 2017 was the time to draw up the report and opinion we are debating today. The ponència held a follow-up hearing. In person, we listened to the interventions of the memory entities. In this sense, let me especially mention Josep Cruanyes, President of the Commission of the Dignity, and in representation of the rest of historical memory entities and promoters entities. Let me also make a note of Pere Fortuny Velázquez, president of the Association for Memory to the Immolats for the Freedom of Catalonia, and hold a record, which serves also as a homenatge to his pocket and struggle, for Enric Pubill, president of the Catalan Association of Political Expressions, who sadly died just a few days before his appearance on the stand. [[Greetings.]] There is also a need, among the comparisons, for teachers and historians specialized in Francoism, who have worked and published recognized scientific works and studies from various backgrounds. And also that of several lawyers specializing in memory laws and memory laws compared between different countries. Among these lawyers, allow me a mention of who explained his own experience before these courts to which the law refers: that of lawyer August Gil Matamala. The committee voted on the report that had been drawn up..., and the papers presented to the different parliamentary groups and agreed to draw up the opinion that we are presenting today. The papers were presented for the Ciutadans Group, for the Socialist Group, and the majority of papers, jointly for Junts per el Si, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the CUP - Cry Constituent. The Ciutadans Group's papers chose to present a bill to the Madrid Congress to add a new aside in the 2007 Spanish Memory Law, on the nullity of the councils and their sentences, which was not in absolute terms either the proposal or the objective or the three groups that promoted it or the promoters. With the Socialist Group's discussions there have been more coincidences, and, after the work meetings, today we present a text negotiated between Junts for the Yes, the Socialist Party of Catalonia, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the CUP - Constituent Creed. The law has an article, basic and clear: we declare illegal the courts of the councils of war that acted in Catalonia from 1938 to 1978, and, consequently, the nullity of the right of all the sentences that they handed down. The motius, as a matter of fact, are clear. As the different international laws, such as the human rights and repeated demands of the UN, take into account the law in force there, which these councils broke, which were totally illegal and did not provide any legal guarantee, I quote in the text what the law says, "The Parliament of Catalonia assumes its historical responsibility and declares all the cases and causes illegal, and none of them hears or resolves. And this law also has a restorative purpose in the final disposition: to make public the list, which is the fruit of the work, and the documentation and order, which some time ago brought to an end the National Archives of Catalonia together with the Democratic Memorial, an order and a work from the archives of the War Hearing of the Fourth Military Region. I want to end up with the chapter of graces. Thank you to the Law Commissioners, thanks to the Lords Matías Alonso, of Ciutadans, and Fernando Sánchez, of the PP; thanks also for having reached agreements with Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Party, and, above all, the thanks to Joan Josep Nuet, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, and Mireia Boya, of the CUP - Cree Constituent, with whom we have worked folds. Thank you for your willingness, for your effort to find added formulas to improve the law's proposal, both for making the declaration of the nullity of the councils as for finding formulas for their repair; a job due to the end, as I said before, together with the entities, with Josep Cruanyes in the front. We also want to thank the advice, the reports, the constant resolution of doubts and the answers to the different comments on the drafting of the law – more than their involvement and patience – of the plethora of the question, Mr. Miquel Palomares..., and also to the manager, Mrs. Pains Balagué. It is a proposal of law in principle presented by three groups, which also involved three departments of the Government. Thanks, therefore, to the Department of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, the Department of Justice and the Department of Culture. Thank you, Counsellor Romeva, today too. And for his help and work and for his coordination with the proposing groups, a special element of gratitude to Oriol Sagrera and Débora Miralles, like so many other names of the departments, of the groups and of the entities. Thanks to all the people who intervened until they got here: to the final discussion and to the approval of the law, an important moment that will need to be celebrated. The parliamentary groups have, we have, always followed the word to make the final debate after this summary to explain the work that we have carried to the end until we reach this law. I'm done. The proposal for this law, negotiated, as I have said and repeated, between various parliamentary groups..., as the statement of motive says is a law of justice and legal reparation of victims; a law that does not seek revenge, but truth, justice, reparation and guarantee of non-repetition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.128.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palau. Then, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word of Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.129.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, first of all, as the presidency has also done, make a reassessment of all the entities that have worked for many years to obtain an explicit legal remedy for the victims of the franchise. I make this explicit recognition and the gift of welcome to Parliament also on behalf of my parliamentary group, on behalf of Ciutadans. His impetus has been the origin of the bill's proposal that today, once approved in committee the opinion drawn up for the debate, we definitely subject to debate and vote. This proposal by the rapporteur, said the rapporteur, entered the legislative circuit of this Parliament in mid-May 2016, now thirty months ago. Five months later, we had the debate of totality, in which there was no mention of totality, for which the bill remained pending from its process in commission and in question, a statement that, more than five months after the beginning of the procedure, was declared of urgency at the end of October 2016. In concrete terms, on October 27, 2016, the procedure for the emergency procedure was agreed. However, the question that has arisen in the preparation of this opinion, of this law, has trigated more than three months and a half into being, a term that could hardly, in this case, be considered urgent. This is true: following this urgency character, all appearances were produced, with extraordinary urgency character already, in two sessions of the inquiry, on the 24th and 31st of March, two months after the start of the parliamentary process of the bill. I would like to thank the contributions of the experts, and above all the representatives of the organizations and of the associations of memory, who have allowed us, all members of the population, to have a more accurate view of the reality of the victims and of the demand for reparation that has served as a impulse to this law. The points that we put forward by the parliamentary groups followed the same extraordinary urgency procedure. The proceedings culminated in the publication of the proceedings submitted on 21 April. Therefore, the process of appearances and the proceedings were strictly followed by this procedure of extraordinary urgency. The rapporteur also said that the definite debate did not produce until two months later last week, as long as you entered this House. But, finally, thirteen months after the beginning of the parliamentary path of this bill..., that from his approval this late in this House will be the law of this Parliament. This law is not just an instrument of justice and reparation. It is also a new condemnation from a Spanish democratic institution of the military uprising and the coup d'état of July 1936 against the Second Republic and the democratic order then in force, which became, let us remember, a violent and terrible civil war that opened one of the darkest periods of our history. It may be recalled that in the course of the Civil War a large number of violations of human rights and a dehumanization of the compatriot, seen and treated as irreconcilable enemy, were produced systemic violations of the fundamental rights which in the insurrection band wanted to be clothed with the appearance of legality and legitimacy... that were at all times absolutely illegal and illegitimate. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group has put forward and kept alive a number of points in this opinion. Our talk of motius makes a clear and clear condemnation of the fascist coup d'état and of the totalitarian and corrupt dictatorial regime that never hesitated to lift the human rights of the people to impose their will by the way of terror. I want to highlight the will for peaceful and democratic reconciliation and coexistence that allowed the political transition process that culminated in the restoration of popular sovereignty and the approval of the 1978 Constitution that restored the fundamental rights and formed a new democratic order and a decentralized model of coexistence that allowed us to enjoy one of the most fruitful periods of our history. The transition from the dictatorial and totalitarian rule of Francoism to the social and democratic state of law enshrined in the 1978 Constitution has been model. We agree that there are things to be improved, of course, but the Spanish transition from dictatorship to democracy that we enjoy today has been exemplary. And it's not because I'm saying it, it's not because my parliamentary group is saying it, it's not because Ciutadans is saying it, let's say it; it's also the report of the Special Rapporteur of the United Nations Human Rights Council, Pablo de Greiff, on the promotion of truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition on July 22, 2014. Says this report: "The Spanish Civil War and the forty years of dictatorship that followed gave place to colossal consequences in relation to victims of gross violations of human rights and humanitarian rights, including executions, torture, arbitrary detentions, disappearances, forced labour for prisoners and exiles. Consolidation of democracy is one of the most important aspects of the Spanish transition. Avoiding the risk of institutional breakdown by the armed forces, one of the greatest challenges of the transitions, has been achieved through the reform and democratization of these very institutions. These reforms offer lessons that can be useful for other countries. And it is clear that this report contains recommendations and shows aspects and questions that have not been resolved perfectly, but it recognizes that it is precisely in repairing the victims of reprisals of the franchise that the most developed aspect in these years of democracy. The Special Rapporteur makes an explicit point of the 2007 Historical Memory Law. The Special Rapporteur welcomes the provisions of Law 52/2007, which recognize and declare the radically unjust nature and illegality of convictions and sanctions for political or ideological reasons or created by special courts during the Civil War and for all crimes or administrative courts or authorities during the dictatorship. The law also establishes that victims of these injustices may request the issuance of statements, reparations and personal recognition. The final drafting of the opinion of this Law does not include an explicit reference to Law 52/2007 of 26 December, for which it is recognized and extended right and measures are established in favour of those who suffered persecution or violence during the Civil War and the dictatorship, popularly known as the "Law of Historical Memory". Some of the legal experts who appeared on the stand mentioned this law of historical memory and agreed that the law that we are approving today should refer to it. A law, that of historical memory, which recognizes and declares the radically unjust character of all convictions, sanctions and any form of personal rape produced by political, ideological or religious reasons during the Civil War, as well as the pathides for the same causes during the Franco dictatorship. Reasons that include relevance, collaboration or relationship with political parties, trade unions, religious or military organizations, ethnic minorities, secret societies, Masonic laws and resistance groups, as well as the exercise of conducts linked to cultural, linguistic or sexual orientation options. Thus, he recognizes and declares the injustice that led to the exile of many Spaniards during this black period of our history. The law of historical memory also declares, with general character and without exception, not only the lack of conformity of law and, therefore, its illegitimacy of any court, jury and criminal or administrative body constituted to impose sanctions for political, ideological or religious reasons, but also its resolutions. Some resolutions which, in fact, are held with general character and by virtue of the law as vices, both in terms of form and substance. We believe that this law, which we are subject to approval in this Parliament today, has the will to give an answer to victims who want the explicit declaration of nullity which implicitly includes the same law of historical memory. It is a demand for reparation that we must obey by moral obligation and to strengthen our democratic culture. An explicit statement that should have been made in the drafting and approval of Law 52/2007 of 26 December. An explicit statement that you should have made in your day the same General Courts and that from our point of view it would be convenient for you to make in the future. We believe that the convictions and resolutions of the unjust and illegitimate courts of the parody of justice imposed by the Franco regime are already null and void, not only because of the lack of validity in origin but also because of the nullity of the surviving international treaties, the 1978 Constitution and the same Law 52/2007. What we do today with this law of autonomous scope, of application only to the judgments and resolutions of the educated causes and of the war councils dictated by political causes in Catalonia for the Franco regime is a step forward, a necessary step and claimed for the victims of Francoism seeking reparation, an important step but perhaps rather a limited one, because they remain outside this law of similar feelings and resolutions dictated in other places of Spain and in which there have been Catalans, in which there are Catalan victims. It turned out, since the majority of Parliamentarians have the driving groups of this new law, following in a more concrete way the requests of the organizations and associations of victims of the franchise, well, therefore, do so and not following the recommendations made by some of the experts in their day. It seems good to us, anyway. We would have wanted you to make a more explicit reference to the Law of Historical Memory, to Law 52/2007. In this sense, we would have liked article 1 to be more null and void. We understand that this formula would still have given it more strength. He didn't mean to be like that, and, I repeat, he seems fine to us. In any case, as long as the final text of this law has substantially improved in its drafting in accordance with the original proposal, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group withdraws its reserved statements and endorses the opinion of the inquiry. I would like to acknowledge and thank the work done by all the members of the delegation, but I will not name them again, but I do want to make a special point to the rapporteur, Mrs Montserrat Palau, and to the deputy Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Group, who have been in good part responsible for the substantial improvement of this defined text and, of course, the pocket of the chamber servants and, therefore, of the readership, as has been said, by Miquel Palomares, and by the parliamentary manager, Mrs Dolors Balagué. We must congratulate ourselves on the fact that after thirty months of parliamentary proceedings we have been able to give an answer to a just demand, to a reparation that demands the victims of the franchise. With this new step, we are completing a little more – and now, from this Parliament – with the need for the victims to have the recognition of our democratic society, to have the truth, the justice, the reparation, and that among all, now and always, we guarantee the non-repetition of a black period in our history, a period that fortunately we have been able to overcome among all. We welcome a social and democratic state of law that has allowed us to develop politically, socially and economically comparable to the best countries in our circle, and we have done so in the European Union itself. A period of poverty and prosperity that is the responsibility of everyone and, let us remember, is the fruit of the work and democratic compromise of millions of Spaniards who have made it possible every day. To reiterate my recognition to the memorialist entities; to reiterate the welcome in this Parliament; to reiterate the congratulations of my parliamentary group, and I believe that from the whole chamber; to have finally brought this law into this Parliament today and to approve it as it will be approved after the vote, and more. Many thanks, Madam President, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Alonso. [[Greetings.]] Thank you very much, Mr. Alonso. Next, to defend the reserved items for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.131.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies and deputies, also greatly appreciate the presence here today of victims, family members of victims and associations representing victims or having a memorialist character. Moreover, these later especially thank them for the fact that they have promoted this initiative that allows us to witness today a day that, while it is still developing as it seems to be expected, I think it will acquire a special significance, because, if this chamber is able to approve unanimously the text that we are subject to Parliament's consideration, I think that it will actually take into account especially the subject matter of which it deals, a lot of good news. I should also like to thank the parliamentary groups that have promoted this initiative, not only the fact that it is being done, but also the predisposition that they have agreed to during the proceedings of the inquiry. It is also clear that the rapporteur and the group of Members and Members who have been involved in this legislative initiative have also made a point. Obviously, also to the reader, to the language service and to the manager. I believe that, despite the urgency of the process, we have been able to make a good parliamentary task in which we have not only talked, but have reached significant agreements that respect the contents. You know, the whole chamber and I also believe that the entities, because they were also all present in the debate to the totality that was held a few months ago, that the Socialist Parliamentary Group expressed concern about the theoretical thrust of the initiative, which we thought could raise some type of competition problem. And they also know that we have expressed to them that we share the ultimate objective of the initiative. That is why we have presented a series of self-constructed statements, and we are very pleased that we have also found a constructive predisposition on the part of the rest of the groups and that we have reached agreements in the form of a transaction, which have actually come to collect more essential than we have proposed through our papers, and that is why, at this point, reached this point, you have little sense of keeping the rest of our reserved statements, some of which are focused on aspects that with the current text writing are of little relevance and others that, let us say, insist on aspects that have already been collected in the solid transactions. That is why I am announcing on behalf of my group the withdrawal of the items that we had reserved and the assumption of the text as it is on behalf of our parliamentary group. Mirin, Law 52/2007, which was stated in the previous intervention, declared the legitimacy of the courts, juries and any other criminal or administrative body that during the Civil War was constituted to impose for political, ideological or religious reasons sentences or sanctions of personal character as well as their resolutions. And in fact it re-incidenced, declaring illegitimate by form and foundation the convictions and sanctions imposed by political, ideological or belief reasons by any court or criminal body or administered during the dictatorship to which they defended republican legality, claimed the restoration of a democratic regime in Spain or tried to live according to options used for rights and freedoms now recognized by the Constitution. It is also said in this Law 52/2007 that convictions, sanctions and any form of personal rape produced by political, ideological or religious reasons during the Civil War, as well as during the dictatorship, was radically unfair. And in the preamble..., at the presentation of motius, vaja, of Law 52/2007, it is said, that I believe that in a significant way, that it is intended to unequivocally overtook the current lack of legal force of those dispositions and resolutions against human rights and contribute to the moral rehabilitation of those who suffered so unjust sanctions and condemnations. And, moreover, it is also said to the statement of reasons, citing a derogatory provision, which expressly wants to deprive of legal force all those norms, dictated under the dictatorship, manifestation of repressive character and control of the phonenal rights, with the dual objective of proclaiming its formal expulsion from the judicial order, and preventing its invocation by any administrative or judicial authority. And so, and that is the feeling that the initiative we are discussing today, the question of nullity, without a statement expressed in the very articulated part of the law, has followed a controversial question and simply cannot be; it cannot be that the victims, the relatives of the victims, are still in the process of being a controversial question. That's why he gets a special sense of what the law we're discussing today says and what we're voting for, when he takes on the role of the Catalonian Parliament at the time of finding and declaring this nullity of the judgments and resolutions and the illegality of the organs and courts that dictated them. Look, the different methods of repression, and the organs that carried it during the Civil War and the Francoism, were an act of an all-embracing and self-critical power, which only proved to have an appearance of legitimacy and legality. But the truth is that, as explained by the very text of the law we are discussing today, in its presentation of motius, from the very beginning, it is possible to consider that these organs, jurors, courts, have absolutely a legal character, but they do not gather the least conditions in order to be able to consider that they could produce the effects of what is judged to be a matter of jurisdiction. Therefore, they lose their sense of the discussions that have taken place over the past few years about legal certainty, the thing being judged, and any other arguments of a similar nature which opposed the declaration of nullity of these judgments, of these resolutions, and which, in fact, was also intended to oppose, sometimes, the radical nullity itself, of the law, of the organs and courts; which is wrong to say "courts, although it was the name they had, because they could not be of any use to them. And that is why the law we are discussing today, based on this argument and on the combination of the legal order that includes both international and domestic law standards, includes Law 52/2007, in effect, finds and declares the illegality of these organs and procedures and also the nullity of the judgments and resolutions that will arise. In short, it operates what, according to our parent, is an act of justice and reparation, among other questions because it also includes the publication of a list of people retaliated in an act of disintegration that seems to us very and very adjunct. Look, today we honour the struggle of many people who have been trying to push for initiatives like this, and some of whom, as the rapporteur Member reminded us, have not come to see this day. I, if you don't know that hard, I don't want to mention it, because the list would be too long and I'm sure it would be unfair to forget many of these people. We also honor the memory of reprisals that come to everyone when we talk about situations like today, such as the very honorable President Companies, or the case of Salvador Puig and Antich. But I'm praying, I'm asking you for the right to be heard, without names and surnames, other cases that remain within, or even beyond the territorial scope of the law, and even more so, even beyond your material scope, first because I can't help but keep them in the head, and, secondly, because not all of the repression mechanisms have been hard to come by following an appearance of legality and not all of them have been conveyed through the concrete mechanisms that we are doing in this law. Look, I want to make a point of the conjunction of people who, in the early moments of the Civil War, suffered his arrest and disappearance. Many, thousands and thousands of people who suffered this fate in the first hours and the first days of the conflict. I think of this farmer from La Roca de la Sierra, in Extremadura, who lay down at the command of the people to demand that his son be freed and detained and that he was taken prisoner himself and that the French authorities let him die of gangrene in prison, while his other son was looking for the land he was laurinating at that time and sinking it, still do not know exactly where, without having time to see his own son be born. And this example is not so much just one of the many things that was given in the areas occupied in the first days of the war and the conflict to the south of Spain, to Extremadura, also to Castella and Lleó. In Navarre, Sartaguda, the village of the blind: eighty-six people murdered in a village of 1,200 inhabitants. The widows saw their homes looted, their colitis confiscated, and they went on for years of fines and humiliation. To the victims of the Desbandá, from Malaga to Almeria, or from our retreat to the French border. To all the people who spent time in the sun and serene, in the detention camps and in the concentration camps, many of whom died. To the people who died in the disciplinary battalions of forced labor. People who don't die there have been through a lot of bad months, a lot of bad years in these forced labors. To those who suffered repression and arrested not directly for a specific political or trade union affiliation, or for the fact of belonging to the masonry or to some belief that remained outside the scope of the Catholic national ideology and fetishist of the new regime, but to those people who suffered until the end of the dictatorship the repression and imprisonment for their options of life, of whatever kind, that were contained in this Catholic and fetishist national ideology. Those who suffered exile and died in exile without being able to climb their land again. Those who died in prison waiting for the outcome of these war councils and the series of proceedings that were initiated against them. To the dead, more so-called assassinates, in the concentration camps of Nazism, so many Catalans who died in Mauthausen. I also think on the net of Sant Feliu de Guíxols that just a few months ago he has recovered the remains of his bird from a communal pit in Andalusia. I also think of all those people to whom no one has returned an individual tribute, because they were anonymous, to the people I do not know, who now do not know a concrete person, who go, in the darkest moments of Francoism, to reorganize the organizations of trade unionism, of the left, who reorganize those groups and associations with those who share beliefs or options of life; those people who with the organization of waves, with the operation of the cycle, patinting the repression, passing through the Model, sometimes without detainees or tortured for the Germans Believe in Via Laietana have conquered for us the freedom of what we now enjoy. And to all these people retaliated for the franchise, today and here, honor and memory. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.132.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Joan Josep Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.133.0	Thank you, President. On the day of the plethora that began to walk this proposal of the law that you have given in this Parliament in that for if only it is worth being a deputy of the Parliament of Catalonia. I think, again, like that, today is another day of this. I want to begin by giving thanks to you, to whom you are here up and to the different rooms here in Parliament, listening to our interventions. Retaliations, reprisals, victims and friends and relatives of victims, tell you only that I am friends, companions and comrades, and that I thank you very much for your presence. I want to dedicate my words to various people. In the first place, at Enric, at Enric Pubill, because we would have liked everyone who was sitting here among us, and I'm sure a smile would have been on his face. Enric taught us a lot of things, taught us where to come from. Knowing where we're coming from is key to knowing where we're going. And today I want to dedicate these words to Enric Pubill. I also want to dedicate these words to Aunt Maties, because he's a man who made me sound like a soc, and that's something you never forget. And I also want to dedicate these words to the Republican women, to whom they were before, but above all to whom they were behind, to whom the families endured in the time of victory and also enabled us to be among you today. To all of them I want to dedicate these words. He said the Josep Cruanyes, who, as everyone knows, was the anime of this project, which the Ovidi Montllor in a famous song reminded us clearly that they have said that they are really special, as he said before. In his address, the Pep Cruanyes, on behalf of the Commission of the Dignity and on behalf of all the memorialist entities that make so many in Catalonia who struggle for a moment like this, or for a moment like this, said that the Ovidi Montllor song said that today would be a day that would last years. So, yes: today is a day that will last years, because we will remember it; a day when we return dignity to all those who lost it. It's not that they lost her, it's that they stole her, and so today we have to make them the stolen dignity. Yesterday the Congress of Deputies awarded a medal to the leader of the Falange Rodolfo Martín Villa, and today the Parliament of Catalonia honours the victims of the Francoism returning part of the stolen dignity. This is the photo we're staying with, the photo of justice, because what's going on here is no political miracle. I don't believe in miracles, but I do believe in justice, and today we are doing justice, with a capital joke, and I am proud of my Parliament and my country, because this has been done here and we have been marking our history ever since. We are now returning, as I said, honor to the anti-Franco fighters and their relatives, and I want to say four things to them that the law says, because they are also in the record, and because it is a solemn moment. The first thing I want to say to you is that, to the attention of victims and family members, it is that a rule with a law rank finally finds and declares the nullity of all those procedures, which can qualify as farce, and sanctions and sentences of hard consequences that will result. And I also want to tell you, second of all, that the restoration of the dignity of the victims is not close to revenge, but to truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-repetition. And I also want to tell you, in the third place, that this law declares the illegality of the courts and procedures and the war councils instructed in Catalonia from April 5, 1938 until December 1978, for the War Hearing of the Occupational Army, later called the War Hearing of the Fourth Military Region. And I also want to say, in fourth place, that the time has come to assume the historic responsibility of the Parliament of Catalonia before the victims of those trials, repairing the abuses committed by the Franco regime against judicial and procedural legality, and making the reparation required for the reprisals, Catalan society and international institutions. I would, of course, like to thank the honourable Member for her work. There are days like today, Montse, that more than ever, even though we are in different parliamentary groups, that I feel like we have the color on the left and the blood very red, and it's a day that's worth it. I also want to thank Mireia Boya for the work done, because with Mireia we always understand each other. And I want to thank Congressman Ferran Pedret in a special way, because without Congressman Ferran Pedret I am convinced that the unanimity of this House would be much more difficult. Thank you, Ferran. I want, of course, to thank them, to the electorate and to the parliamentary manager, the work done. I want to thank the Cruanyes and all the people that these days, for crying out loud, they've been giving us advice, they've helped us, they've told us to pull forward. And I want to finish saying that I return to the Ovidi, I always have to return to Ovidi to find the way. In this song – which the Cruanyes reminded us of, and told us that today would be a special day – the Ovidi said many things, he said: «.................................................................................................................................................... "We're tightening our teeth and we're tightening our punches. And he says: "Cryings and hearts and words will flourish. / In the day that will last years, / free arms and mouths and hands. MPs and MPs, serve your free arms, press the green button of yes to freedom. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next, in order to defend the items reserved for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.135.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. I begin with a thank you to all those who have made this law possible, and in particular to the company Pep Cruanyes, who is up here, and to all the Commission of the Dignity, and to the deputy Montse Palau, the rapporteur of this law. All the interbanks we've had, to persist is to always get it. A thanks also to all those who fought, who fought there, who did not fail and who were eager, tortured, murdered to defend some ideas; some of them, today present; a thanks to those who keep the memory alive. This act of reparation and dignity is for all of you and for what you are seeing from your own video attachments; for your families; for all those reprisals for a fetishist regime, which still today is gathering in the Spanish State, with its political police, its political courts, its tributes to fascists and its denial of our rights. Today our anonymous heroes and heroes, our maquises and our supporters will have the recognition they deserve. Today we are making an act of breaking with the rule, the rule of 36 and the rule of 78, the same; one, continuation of the other. Today this Parliament will be raised above the pantomime of the Transition, above the questionable Constitution, to the height of the necessary collective memory which, like the people, we claim, above the decaffeinated and insufficient law of state historical memory, that it did not dare to do to what today this Parliament will do: illegalize the courts and declare them null. Today this country is back to being a republic, which we were torn apart with a score of years ago. And to me, who like the numbers, because soc de cièncias, repeat the numbers: 63,961 war council proceedings made in Catalonia; 3,358 executed people– 3,341 men and 17 women. This was Franco's revenge on Catalonia between 1936 and 1975. Vengeance to which we have to add, logically, the lack of rights and freedoms, torture, persecution, terror, greed – physical and psychological sequels that have persecuted us for generations and that still persecute us today –; their laws, imposed over our own, girls to measure to convert the contrary into political prisoners, object of imprisonment in labor camps, concentration camps, under judicious summary or forced into exile. The wounds are open and we will never forget the pallids, the arbitrary denunciations or the special invisibility, as always, towards the women, with vexations like the carvings of hairs, violations or demands of public exhibitions of submission to a fetishist regime; 63,961, numbers with names. You saw a story behind you. An anonymously vulgarly imposed. Numbers that silenced impunity but cremated us in the hands, in the heart and in the fists raised; we declare them illegal, null and void. We do it because it's our duty, we do it because, like all their reprisals and family members, we can no longer support our consciences anymore. Particular patience and collection, unmasking of injustice, collection of dignity: 63,961. Try one, think about it, honor your record, keep your memory alive during this intervention and forever more. Because without memory we are nothing, we lose our identity as a people, our struggles, we forget the struggles of so many today have made it possible for us to declare illegal those Faixist judges, judges celebrated without guarantees, without defense, without time. We've made a legal act of enormous symbolism. And the names of these women and men are going to be public today. We approve of this law: individualized repair, beyond the numbers, with names and surnames, with visions behind names and surnames; socialization of these archives that keep evidence of those illegal judgments, and a recognizance of the archives and their pocket. And that's exactly why we're keeping an issue alive, because we want everyone to have access to the summary, and why we want to be the gatherings, the administration of proximity, those that certify the nullity of the courts at the request of the interested parties or their relatives. Forty-two years have passed since the dictator's death, and no one here has ever spoken of historical reparation or justice. Where's the forgiveness? End-point reading, 78 bailout silence pact, makeup and obliter, deafoid to family petitions, silence, amnesia. That was it. We have been late, but it is done by the Parliament of Catalonia in an act of sovereignty, of rupture with a totalitarian regime that is still well alive, that has perpetuated itself, that has made a change of name in the bad name « Transition, but that remains well in force. We're late. It is done by the Parliament of Catalonia because the State has never done it and will never do it. We did so because they would never ask forgiveness: neither the State nor the king, both heresies and you collaborated with the Franco dictatorship. And the dates of the nullity of this law speak for themselves: from 38 to 78. Yes, after the death of the innumerable continued the dictatorship. Yes, the Borbo allowed the torture and the execution of the regime's dissent. Yes, the monarchy is also a heritage of fascism. Yeah, this country doesn't have a king or a tea for it. And he'll never have it after this act of sovereignty and reparation. And yes, that's why the Bourbon doesn't want democracy either. We'll check it again yesterday. It brings totality to injustice. Amnesty, for us, never meant impunity and humiliation. In the Catalan Republic, there will be no cover-up of Francoist crimes. The Catalan Republic will be judged by the perpetrators and the murderers. To our republic there are no bewitched tributes to bewitches like Martin Villa, nor life pensions to Billy the Child. In our republic the Francoist lawyers who dictated those sentiments, those that today we annul, like Carlos Rey, would have been disabled. Vote 'yes October 1' is also that. Maybe in a few days they'll tell us we don't have any skills; maybe they'll tell us that this law we approve today isn't constitutional. We will take the interview and remove it, because the Spanish court is entitled to annul this law. And, if they do, let them pass the shame of saying to the world that they do not, that they ratify the Faixist courts and their sentences, that they want to continue humiliating reprisals, that the crimes of the dictatorship were legal, that democracy and justice are technical questions and not fundamental principles of all society. They will be able to suspend and cancel our laws but never, ever – they will be able to end our memory. And in this republic that we cement today, much work remains to be done: to remove the Feixist names from our streets, like Lleida; to throw down the monumental shame that Tortosa has in the middle of the river; to open the pits and return the dead to the families; to repair the cleansers for the Francoism; to collaborate to extend this law fraternally to other territories, to repair not only those Catalans jutjates outside Catalonia, but all the fighters and fighters retaliated from other peoples of the State, people who defended, that defense, options of anti-feixist changes – let us say more, anti-feixists, because the Francoism was Feixism–, anti-feixists who wanted a better world. We will regain the strength of the causes that move their lives and follow them: values of constancy, vehemence and enormous transformative generosity. Let's give them thanks. And yes, companion Nuet, today will be a day that will last years, let's keep it. We keep it in our memory, we raise the head, we raise the punch, because today we have won in dignity, justice and freedom. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.136.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Next, in order to defend the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si, has the word Ms Montserrat Palau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.137.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Deputies, again, say hello to all the public you have here today, to the Chamber and to other rooms of this chamber, victims or relatives of victims of Francoist councils and members of historical memory entities. I don't say names either; I don't want to say names because I'd give up a lot. I am relieved, I will be forgiven, to say concrete names, because, if you have to say all the names of the condemned and executed people for the Franco Councils, it would take me – I calculated it – more than an hour. If I made 63,961 councils or persons convicted for these councils, physical persons and fifteen legal persons, it would take more than thirty-six hours. A barbarity. If, moreover, we add to these figures all the people who suffered from exile, who suffered from concentration camps, all the people who are still on the road or are buried in pits, who have been cleansed or expelled from their place of work, who have suffered appropriation or economic sanctions, and we can follow; in short, we would – in the door – bear a barbarity of time, like barbarism and cruel folly of the Francoist dictatorship. A crime against humanity. General Mola, the main organizer of the 1936 military coup d'état, wrote in various texts that «the action must be extremely violent and that « terror must be sown. And so they did. Just another criminal, Adolf Hitler, made sure Franco had a hard color. The Franco dictatorship was instrumental in repression and terror, in generating by, and consolidated with a character of repression and of total and mass gain, with a systematic act of extermination. For our group, for Junts for Yes, today is an honor to approve this law. I repeat the thanks and thanks to the memory entities, and especially to Josep Cruanyes, who promoted this initiative. Thanks again, companies Joan Josep Nuet, Mireia Boya, because we have been very clear – this very red blood that runs in our veins – the object of the nullity of the sentences dictated by some illegal councils and the need for memory and repair. Thank you, Ferran Pedret, as I said before, also, in the intervention, for being able to reach agreements and transactions. And I also congratulate the Ciutadan groups and the People's Party for voting in favour of this law of justice and reparation. Let's hope, therefore, that this unanimous anti-Franchist, which connects with our republican origins, is maintained and continues with other laws or initiatives of this chamber, or in other chambers in which our political groups have been represented. For Junts for Yes, the excuses for not opening wounds are no longer valid, because these wounds have never closed; nor for resurrecting fantasies, because they are still well alive. It is no longer valid to speak of oblivion or forgiveness while Martín Villa, that murder of raons and vines, is decorated, or the Francisco Franco Foundation rep grants more than no presuppost have the policies of memory of the state government. It is no longer valid for us the report of the Transition, in our case, which was done in a determined context, with cowardice, and with fear, and in the name of conciliations that have turned out to be a deception, that have been the consecration and perpetuation of an anti-Democratic fascism and authoritarianism, sometimes disguised or imagined, but quite often still today and present. As yesterday the deputy and companion of Junts per el Si, Carmina Castellví, referring to the Pla de foes that the government has begun, the Transition is the result of a reform of the institutions of the dictatorship carried to term as if democracy was a natural evolution of the dictatorship and not its antithesis. And we know well that she can't be a democrat without being an anti-feixist, or, what's the same, anti-Franchist. I'm not at that moment, though. It'll take on the historical memory and make clear and repair the crimes of the dictatorship. The amnesty law wasn't a point and an end, and the transition wasn't a model, but it destroyed the republican memory. And, despite the years, we haven't made it clear yet, we still have a lot of work to do. The 2007 State Memory Law has been discussed several times. This law, for our group, is insufficient and has not unfolded, and even laudable initiations that have come from this same chamber to change it or to deploy it have been axles. Let us remember, for example, and have also remembered other companies and companies that have preceded me, the repeated warnings of the United Nations to the Spanish State to eradicate the Francoism, which have been disappointed and incomplete also repeatedly; or the approved proposal on the dismantling of the Valley of Fall, which the People's Party Government has already said that it will not carry out; or the non-acceptance has been delayed a few days ago from a proposal not of law to cancel the trial to President Companies. From our group's appeal to the sovereignty of this chamber and to be able to draw up the law of Catalan integral memory, which contemplates the nullity of councils, but also other causes of other courts, such as the Special Court of the Repression of Freemasonry and Communism or the Court of Public Order; a Catalan integral law which contemplates various initiatives, some of which this Government is already beginning to carry out, such as the case of the location and the opening of pits or the genetic identification and the DNA bank. But today we take a first step, a very important step, and we pass with the franchise and the 78th rule exercising our sovereignty. As this law says, the Franco Councils are illegal, and therefore we declare their feelings null and void. The Councils and the causes and the legal proceedings were null and void; illegal because they violated the republican law and the powers of the State; illegal because they held no legal guarantee, denying and exceeding human rights; illegal because of the lack of legal resources and only for political and repressive purposes; illegal because of the international law and human rights; illegal because they were a planned strategy of institutional violence, a planning calculated to end physically with a good part of the civilian population. From 1938 until 1978, therefore, proceedings were held which, in addition to being null and void in applying the legislation of the time, did not have any respect for human rights, and which, in violation of the fundamental norms of international law and human rights, are crimes and crimes of inhumanity, which they have not prescribed or prescribed. This law, in addition to the nullity of the sentences, also contemplates the reparation of victims, of all persons retaliated. We'll have the strength of some shocking figures; I'm talking about thirty thousand pages, with the whole relationship of the Franco Councils from 38 to 78. For years and years, the silence was imposed. From the decade of the Norse and through a series of investigations into the judiciary to President Companies, a series of surveys began. And thanks to the work and surveys of entities and associations of memory, of the Democratic Memorial, of the university research groups, of the study centers or individual jobs of the country we now have a lot of documentation, but this law and the publication of all the councils and their feelings can be seen in its entirety, in conjunction. These reports have also provided us with a lot of documentation, and a lot of documentation to show us through the witnesses the cruelty, the bestiality of those Francoist councils that we today declare null and void. Studies and witnesses describing councils that already had pre-filled feelings, that the same witnesses served various causes and lawsuits, that military lawyers did not know who they were defending and had only two minutes to do so. Or multiple councils: judgments of forty-five minutes made to thirty persons now, and of whom six sentences come out and sentence us to death. And who signified these feelings of death, the "caudillo by the grace of God," walked under the pal·li. This law is also, as I said, a recognition and repair of reprisals and reprisals, making public their names. We were told to present this proposal of the Law months ago: we do not want to be accomplices of the banalization of evil, of that evil that is normal, but we bet for the need for justice, for the repair of some victims and of a justice that was not such, but an arbitrary and authoritarian farce. We shall approve a just and necessary law, on the responsibility of our Parliament to put an end to silence and oblivion. We need to recover, maintain and transmit the historical memory as we are today. It's started by oblivion and it's over, and we can't allow that, with indifference. We have been late, we have to recognize it, but after forty-two years of the dictator's death, no indifference, no silence, no oblivion, on the contrary: the will of our Parliament to approve this bill. "Memory is an act of love," said Montserrat Roig. I serve, therefore, this law as the act of love. With this law of memory, as the later verses of the poem say« Now, by Miquel Martí and Pol, musiced and sung for our companion Lluís Llach, « we will turn the old pain into love and we will come, solemnly, to history. We honor this Parliament with this law and restore the honor of all the people who suffered, who wanted to suffer the advice of Francoism; we honor its memory, its struggle for democratic ideals, so that we honor ourselves with an act, a law, justice and reparation. It is their right, your right; it is our right. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.138.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palau. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.139.0	President, Honourable Vice President, Councillors... I would first like to greet the people who accompany us today from the rostrum, many of them family members of reprisals and victims of the Civil War and the dictatorship. We know his pain, we recognize his patience and we want to contribute today to relieve him. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Party will today vote in favour of this bill to respect the victims and as a step towards deepening the path of reconciliation that we started in the Transition. Certainly the pain of the Civil War is still very present to our historical consciousness and to our political culture, and it will still be so until a hundred years ago, that it is the time of living memory and time, when the memory has not yet been made history. Eighty years have passed since the coup d'état; a coup d'état that we condemn, a military uprising that we reject. We reject and condemn General Franco's coup d'état, as we reject and condemn the entire dictatorship. And we particularly reject the repression of the citizens of Catalonia and of our Catalan culture. I think I've made myself clear, haven't I? Ladies and gentlemen, we can say that, with the Republic, with the Civil War, with the dictatorship, we do not have a problem of knowing the facts; even though it seems the contrary, in the background there is a basic historical consensus and since the critical history of which were those years. The problem is not historiographic; the problem is community memory management and institutional relationship with the period. Each catal, each Spanish has a different memory of that time, and these memories are many times contradictory and even antagonistic. And I know that in your parliamentary groups, because I've spoken to a few... all of you, there are these antagonisms of memory. A memory, some memories of the experiences that have been experienced in those years; today we have not had an example with some Member who, without quoting it, has done so. But here we are touching something very intimate, very existential, very nuclear and personal. I can't tell anyone: "Your memory is false, because it's your experience, it's your life, it's your identity. And the big question, ladies and gentlemen, Counsellor Romeva, is how we build a public memory, an institutional memory that is not equidistant, that has clear responsibilities, that is high on democratic values; a democratic memory and democracy, and that is precisely why it is respectful of the complexity of history and the plurality of memories. And I ask the Romeva Councillor to pass through the path of a true democratic memory, that is, clear in his options of value, without equidistance, but always respectful of historical reality and the diversity of memories. That you can't recreate that to make up a memory report we gave up the critical story. That we don't remember with politics, but true historical memory to the service of truth, reparation and reconciliation. "But isn't that complicated? Can you say, it's not complicated things? Yes, but the historical reality is complicated. And man gives up when he reads, for example, the memoirs of the leading Republican leaders, from D'Azaña to Maura, passing through Pi and Sunyer or... Oliver; or when you read the articles that year 36 published a person you think very much, who is Rovira and Virgil, and he says things, and there you see the complexity of the facts. And what I'm asking is this: a democratic memory that I recognize and that I didn't give up on historical reality. And recognizing complexity is not a matter of fairness or relativism. Yes, it is, in change, it seems to me, to lay down the eyes of the actors of the Transition, curiously they, those actors. Certainly, a little more respect for the Transition, at least with its party partners, because at least Convergence and the PSU were the main actors and drafters of the Constitution; therefore, also a little respect for their companies when they talk about the bunker and the rule – to their companies. Strangely they, who had experienced the war of trenches from the trenches and from the fences, precisely they promoted that great agreement of the future. Yes, I know, it's obvious that there were some very important factual conditions, but there was something more, there was a clear, existential consciousness, a lot of immediate strokes, of what had passed, of everything that had passed, and of what could never pass again. And we will always defend that spirit of the Transition, which allowed us to set aside two centuries of confrontations, that Transition that has allowed us to start four decades of economic and social progress and a transition that I think can still accompany us in the turbulent times that we are living today. Vice President, councillors, deputies of this chamber, to make that transition was necessary very valiant; also the courage to lose the cause for the maximists, for the intransigents to accuse you of infidel and traitor. The Transition made bold that they were able to renounce the epic of maximalism and liked to compromise 'as well as the transactional realism of the common good. It could be a lesson for today. And precisely in line with the Transitional Expert we vote on this bill. We do not do this against the hope of the Transition, we do this as concretely unfolding, in this Catalan circumstance, of that spirit. And what we're doing is finding that, according to international and national laws, it's, like, Spanish, these judgments that we're looking at today are null and void. And so I can certify it and we want you to certify it to the Generality. It is not that Parliament declares them null: it is that Parliament recognizes that, according to the laws in force, they are null. The Law of Historical Memory, which was quoted, declared illegitimate the judges we are addressing today. Various entities in the State have already stated that they are out and expelled from legal order. And this Parliament interprets today, and we do it with it, that, according to these laws, according to the same Constitution, nullity would follow. The same prosecution has stated that these courts have an intrinsically unfair nature, are illegitimate and have essential flaws in form and substance. The Supreme Court also defined them as illegitimate, because they are against the law and because they are against the most basic demands of a just trial. It is true that there is a certain legal discrepancy as to whether these claims that I have cited and these laws that I have been explaining go directly to nullity. Look, this is a discussion between legal bodies that we respect and respect, but what we do today is above all a political position. We see the nullity of the judgment in Companies, among others. We think Company wasn't a good president, it was a bandol president. [[Funnel veils]] Not all Catalans, but his arrest...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.140.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.141.0	... his sentence to death and his execution never had to be produced. And today we precisely want to claim the spirit of concord that reigned in Catalan politics in the spring of the year 36, while the rest of Spain rode for the estimball. After the recent events, everyone had set up a climate of collaboration between all the parties. As Pi i Sunyer, mayor republican of Barcelona wrote: "Severally allied, Catalonia walked without a spirit of revenge and with afanys conciliatoris. Today we want to stay with the Companies of that period, the Companies that invited to make Catalonia – I quote – « an example of coexistence, ambition and overcoming. We're staying with this company today and maybe we're all forgetting other faces, because sometimes we also have to make this effort to oblivion in order to come to great agreement with today. Today we want to say that history is complex, very complex. But there is one principle that we would always want to follow: work for reconciliation. And this principle is expressed in very different forms, in every territory and in every circumstance. Today, here and now he goes to give support to this law and declare and recognize the judges of the dictatorship. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. First of all, we will vote on the reserved statements of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed ; then we will vote on the motion of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, and lastly, we will vote on the text of the opinion. So now, we're going to start voting for item 19. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's not going. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Now yes – now yes. We vote for Emena number 19. The vote begins. The draft was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 62 against and 58 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the item number 7. The vote begins. The draft was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 94 against and 16 abstentions. We shall then vote on the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposal for the legal reparation of the victims of the franchise was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats. The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Strong applause and perlongats. Crits of "View the Republic! In the public sector.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the health model]] [[302-00165/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the health model, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler. [[Widow's remorse. Long break.]] Mr. Soler, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.143.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the situation of the waiting lists in Catalonia deserves an urgent political response. There are many measures to be implemented. We know that more resources are falling, but today we want to talk about non-economic reforms. We haven't introduced any of them yet. Our law, for example. With some proposals, too, for a resolution to the Health Commission. Today we present what may be the most priority at these times, the transparency of the waiting lists. We can't fix a situation if we don't know exactly its magnitude; everyone knows that the situation is terrible, but we want to know exactly who the real numbers are in all places and you serve. I have taught here, at the Faristol, full derivation in situations that do not correspond to the data that is published, we see contradictory information, we know that there are subpoena papers; so I have denounced it many times. This motion begins when a parliamentary question from Ciutadans trigated set_months to be answered. I asked about the waiting time to be visited in Catalonia at the pain clinics and it took seven months to answer. The answer, in fact, can already be imagined, a great scandal. Catalans do not deserve to have this list of waits, and much less deserve a government that takes months to answer for a very specific and very concrete question of the list of waits. So, this is over. We're bringing a motion to this Ple to make an external audit of the waiting list. We want someone outside to listen to the real situation of the waiting list for all the specialties, serve and centers in Catalonia: who is waiting, what is waiting and where is visited. An audit that must have, in addition, as participating observers representing professionals and patients – what better way to give transparency to this audit? An audit with full guarantees that allows us to hold reliable data for all those changes that we know Catalonia needs. And then, in this case, we also ask for the creation of a transparency portal, because the data from the waiting list is published regularly. Catalans have the right to know how long they will be visited; Catalans will know, with this young man, when a surgical intervention or proof with actual and up-to-date information will take place; Catalans, from today, will be able to know the truth of the situation of the waiting list in Catalonia. And we take advantage of this young man, who will give healthcare transparency, to publish to the portal of truth five work objectives annually sign the directives of the public health system, and what is the degree of compliment they achieve. What the system directories have as objectives is very relevant to know which way they will take each year to manage. In Ciutadans we want a Catalonia managed healthily with transparency. And that's what we want to approve today. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.144.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Soler. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? [[Take Escarp Gibert says, "I'm slow.]] Don't worry about it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.145.0	It seems in a sense of humor, that those of us who dedicate ourselves to salvation are all fatal, but... [[The joker laughs.]] Thank you, President. Members, Members, today we are discussing a motion for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Before Congressman Jorge Soler gave the presentation, she is a young man who has become transparent. And when I said that, I thought that yesterday Councilman Comin told us, in a question that there was here in the plenary, and I said that at the end of July I would prove that I had fulfilled the forty commitments of his plan of government. Clearly, and I thought that these compliments of the commitments are very subjective, because the paper endures everything, is to say, if a present plans and powerpoints, then, surely, yes, but when it comes to our citizens and citizens getting better health services, reducing waiting lists, or returning CAPs or CUPs to lost services and times, or among other things that give us a chance to get to the first place, a time at 40 hours, or that we are only twenty-four hours at emergencies, so maybe things see a lot different. And, therefore, the analysis of commitments and what has actually been done is very different. Because we're already carrying some motions and some resolutions in this plethora that we don't see that they're complete either. It seems to me that Congressman Soler also gave it to this young man the day he asked this question. But, well, the reason we're talking about today – but it's worth commenting on, too – is to go deeper into two of the commitments: transparency, participation, and also the waiting lists, the shock plan on the waiting lists. It's not so much about creating a web where we can find the data, but how these data are processed and, above all, how they build the data, and how, somehow, the waiting lists that are in existence are made. I would like, first of all, to say something that seems to me most important, because after each of these facts we want to analyze there is a city or a citizen waiting for a visit to the specialist, for a diagnostic test or for surgery. And so, somehow, that's the most important issue. We also say – and we always say – that we like to be the best; and in terms of salvation, we like to be the best. But, well, we got to be the best with the worst, because, comparatively, this week, the data from all over the state and we're the worst on the waiting lists. And one of the other things that this young man poses is not just how much we are and how much we are of the truth, but especially at what point people join the waiting list. I think that – and my group has always defended it – we have to get rid of it once and for all not knowing, above all, how long it waits to be on a waiting list. And so, when we calculate the time, we have to compute from the very moment that the primary school teacher tells you what to do, and so let's start... And above all, we need to clear these suspicions more transparently, or certain ones, of not including or interrupting the wait list commuting when they are instructed to the professionals not to incorporate new people if they do not produce downloads. That's why the judge claims to do an external audit that proves all the concordance. For this, too, it is done with the participation of observers, as well as social entities, in the broadest sense. And here we have succeeded, I think that also with the good arts of the Soler deputy and of the deputies Eulàlia Regant and Anna Caula, make some transactions that allow us to make everyone feel comfortable and that somehow we also have external presence with an audit that we all want. In short, we also want to update the data in a much more periodic way than the current one and to know the derivatives that are produced from the public health system to the concertate, but above all not the global number, but which is derived and where it is derived, because this is the data that we lack. An incorporation that seems important to us is the incorporation of the age, the gene and the origin, because sometimes we bring some surprise about the face that each of the people on the waiting list has. And, therefore, it's important. Therefore, finally, the motion also proposes to make public the contents of the addresses per object and an issue that we have talked about here a lot, which is to take over the primary attention. In this sense, we have put forward a proposal to achieve much more than I want to say and to be able to do so. Therefore, announce the favourable vote of our group to the motion that is presented. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.146.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. He has also submitted papers to this motion the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed. And, in her name, has the word Congresswoman Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.147.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, Vice President. It's a little strange, intervening after the point before, and more when the hemicle is practically deserted, isn't it? I, therefore, it is complicated a little to address issues or it is difficult. But I think that's what he said, right? , we're talking about transparency in a department that transparency costs you a little. Because in more than one young man we have already approved things that, in the end, make public a series of information that they have not made public – the information – from breaking down all the presupposition intended to..., or still, of the Català Health Service for providers, to other things. And they have not made it public nor are they making it public in a clear and easy way to hear. But, despite that, we are still asking for transparency. In this sense we will give support to the young lady, despite the fact that at some points it has also cost us to decide or find certain fit. We understand that it is not normally a matter of external audits, because in the background it is not a matter of generating mechanisms that externalize things or generate things, is it not? , a chain of difficult follow-up. But, despite this, we are aware that currently the management of the waiting lists leaves enough to desire, no longer only managed it, but the information that is then left behind. Because, as the Socialist Party Member said, we know cases, or if more information does not arrive, if at certain times that enters or does not enter the waiting list or the amount of time you enter or do not enter..., there are differences. And so it's hard for you to do that from the same department. The same way we have cases that would please us..., that it's hard to know how people compute that they are on waiting lists since 2015 and that, for different reasons, they've been running out of intervention. And, therefore, the question would be at what time..., or from when it is counted to the waiting list, if at every moment that the intervention has been scheduled disappears and then appears again. Actually, yesterday Reus himself was reporting a person's case, wasn't he? So, that's waiting for an intervention since 2015, it's been scheduled twice, twice the operation has passed. And, therefore, it means that it has been more than two years than it is on the waiting list, after an operation that has had bad results and that, therefore, I need to do it again. And more, taking into account campaigns that have taken place for many years to raise awareness and explain the topic of waiting lists. In fact, we ourselves, the CUP, the year 2013 already started a campaign of "Don't leave without an hour, there's a right! And, in fact, this complaint from Reus was still coming through the campaign yesterday."Don't leave without an hour, there's a right! ; that's to say, campaign that we started 2013, denounces that yesterday we were talking about someone who has been waiting since 2015 for an operation and that has been happening. Therefore, we understand that an external audit is necessary in this case and therefore we also welcome the fact that we have reached a compromise at point 2, where this external audit incorporates this element of citizenship, this element of workers' movements, that it is also those who can put tools and elements to ensure that it is done as it does and that we actually have the inputs on the table necessary to know how we are making the calculation or included in the waiting lists and whether it really follows that determined. And by the end, we had a point that also caused us to doubt, in point 7 of Junts' message to the Yes to incorporate only or to make public the directions of the public sector. And here we have a doubt, why, what is public sector? Because sometimes the public sector is the concerted. And in this case, isn't it? I mean, but let's keep it... but let's keep an eye on it, huh? And so, that's why he was giving us questions, because we think it's necessary for this transparency and for us to put lights and tachographs on everything that goes on, because in many things when it's asked to ensure that salary tops are one at a time, it turns out that those that are arranged don't get into these salary tops, so he woke us up to two things that target or that the DPO were only public in the public sector. In this sense, however, we understand that we are talking about the Català Health Service and, therefore, we will finally support it. Just finally – and I'm done, now that the counselor has arrived – just say that at the last point it's starting to be time to put a thread to the needle, because the collections that make a_me are meeting with the counselor wait, one_me later – all that is not listening to me – that I complimented what made a_me say to the meeting. And that's why tomorrow they're going to focus on the CAP doors to keep demanding what they've been asking for and what they've been doing for a while, they got the councilman's commitment to pull it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.148.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes has also presented papers. In her name, there is now the paragraph of Congresswoman Anna Caula.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.149.0	Thank you, President. We simply take advantage of it to be able to answer some of the questions he left on the table, therefore, the deputy of the UPC. I would first like to welcome from our group, therefore, the good disposition of Mr Soler to have been able to reach agreement and above all that these agreements are realistic, so that they can go forward in a topic that brings us all, that are the lists of hope and transparency. Or perhaps, said in another way, and what we want is the transparency of the waiting lists and the willingness to build and make every time more powerful and resolve our health system. I still want to add a reflection. Last week my company, in Gerard Gómez del Moral, was talking about the opportunism of Ciutadans' motions. Today in this case, I hope I've allowed myself to be a little more distressed. Let's talk about the young man. It is a motion, certainly, of broad consensus, a consensus of all groups in addressing these problems and in the coincidence of solutions, as has been seen with considerations in which we have all approached it in the same way. And we also need to recognize, as is apparent in the presentation of a few papers, which is well laid out. Now, despite all this, you're back to being opportunists, and I'd even like to say that with this young man in some way you're validating government action. And why am I saying that? A little rebutting also his initial exposure, because what is asked at point 1 is already being done. Currently the public contract competition is already moving from an external audit on the quality and consistency of the CatSalut waiting list registry that is in processing process. An audit that will make special emphasis, among others, on the concordance of the date of inclusion to the length of the entire process in any type of waiting list, as well as the incidences that may affect the compatibility of the accumulated waiting time for each patient. All this, I repeat, is already being done. And what is asked at point 3 is at the point of execution, because, as has already been announced, from this same month of June this information will be made public with a monthly periodicity. Also point 4, because, as has already been announced, from this same month of June this information will be made public with a monthly periodicity. This information already incorporates the gender perspective and is expected to incorporate the age and enlargement perspective into a second phase, according to the agreed transaction, with the origin perspective. And we continue with its validation, as I said, of government action, because both point 6 and point 8 is already two in term. Finally, we also believe that with the joint work, as Mrs Escarp said, on the rest of the points, we have improved point 2, collecting the sensitivities of all groups and expanding it with the concept of citizen audience. And to thank the admission of the papers, we could say that techniques, at Apart 5 and 7. Also make or supplement the initial explanation that it seems that all start from proposals of citizens that probably the portal of Transparency – which is already in force – some virtue will have in the present government. For the first time, the waiting lists are published with open data. Also, in reference to what Mrs Reguant was referring to, it should be borne in mind that the new contracts signed with the concerted sector starting in 2017 also require these suppliers to comply with the same transparency standards in the public sector. This young man makes us go in the right direction, reinforces the different strategies initiated by the department, with the gathering of consensus, as you see in this young man, in a subject as sensitive to the citizenry as transparency in the lists of hope, making efforts to design a system that conveys security, knowledge and confidence to the user, attacking the problem of the different futures, optimizing the efficiency of the system, more public investment, and incorporating accessibility tools for the user. We therefore point out that the public system wants to achieve the ability to respond efficiently and transparently to the needs of the population. The entry to a waiting list, inherent in any public health system, affects the quality of life of patients and their plans for the future. Our aim, like that of the Government, is that the saying "lists of wait, you see in pause is reduced to the minimum expression. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.150.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. They now have the word, to fix their position, the parliamentary groups that have not submitted papers. In the first term, MP Àngels Martínez, on behalf of Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.151.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Good afternoon. I seem to speak of lists of hope, but to me it reminds me, I remember, when I read her, a warning that made me a great Basque and Catalan economist, Miren Etxezarreta, shortly after the crisis began, who said to me: "Don't you, Angels, that every once in a while the economists instead of explaining the causes of the poor, we are dedicated to counting poor? And of course, now we can say that very well, that we are going to audit and make the contradictions more obvious in the lists of hope, but, in fact, we have to go to what some compañeros of the 15-M of Sabadell and of the white seas did, that they made a magnificient study that they say in the graphs of the patience, because being in a list of hope is this, it is patience, it is uncertain, it is suffering, and that after coming to beautiful pages of counting by specialties, making graphics, etc., consult the Syndic of Greuges, arrive at a later page, page 29, in which they say, in some way, as this situation has come to mind. And these priorities are, and are, the very same as the first project we were talking about yesterday, and they are the same ones that brought Mr. Boi Ruiz, answering Mrs. Escarp, when the public sector or public health defined it, detailed it depending on whether they were accused or not. If they had accused it, it was private; if they had not accused it, it was public. And the conclusions they come to are that what is needed is more personal, resources, etcetera – things that are already done, things that are not. Above all, more primary care, home care – home care – that it is very important to get sanitation to where people can't get it; also attention to health care providers; recovery of emergencies – these things that we always talk about to the Health Commission. And then, in the small letter, you don't practically see but I think it's very important, you talk about the waiting lists of people who aren't waiting lists and I think it would be a great topic to deal with, and that especially if we make a commission or there's a commission to save money what's going on with the waiting lists is to see this waiting list, why are these people in this waiting list, invisible, that you don't see, where they are; and this other waiting list of people who have told you to operate at a concert, you don't accept it and then you go back to the public health community. They are lists of hope for a tremendous injustice that I think would be worth taking advantage of to put on the table. And with regard to the audience, whether it's external or not, I obviously don't think the audience is external. On the other hand, I do agree very much with this study by these companies, the Rose and Andrew, of Sabadell, that what they say is that it is a citizen's audit. Why? Because if the citizenry actually does these accounts, it's dedicated to counting what happens with the waiting lists, it's going to put the truth straight, from Bellvitge's ports of call or from campaigns like "No leaving without an hour, to changing priorities and, therefore, also changing policies and ending up with these patience figures, which are the waiting lists. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.152.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.153.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, a few days ago we agreed that sanitation, the Spanish Sanitary Junction was a public service very well valued for the Spanish City Junction. It's valued together. The specialized magazine Lancet placed Spain in the eighth position of a 195-country ranking, with a score of 90_on_100, and that could be said practically that Spanish sanitation was the fourth in the world, because the score was exactly the same between the quarter and the twelfth place. And this, in turn, contrasts with the fact that in our system you still have problems to solve, and we are willing to improve it, and we have, more than that, opportunities to improve it. And these problems, these shortcomings are quite well identified, largely: emergencies, a weakened primary, waiting lists and precariousness also in the professional field. In view of this situation, the Government, by Councillor, offers us plans, plans and plans. Solicitation, head, counselor; plans, many, and that's what I said a lot more than div_mesos: plans, many; solutions, head. Presuppositionary effort, counselor, cofoi. And that worries us. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I say the councillor co-op because we have seen the inquiry that was made fifteen days ago, and the councillor co-op. To advise that it is certainly in time of countdown. Yes, because he was a _monthly advisor and at the inquiry he already threatened us that from August onwards we would have to continue to question him. Well, and we're worried, we're worried because we're probably going to keep up plans, we're going to keep up diagnostics, and we're going to keep up more resources for the tax agency than not for the primary care; more resources for the tax agency, counselor, than not for the primary care. And that's a reality. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, that's right, counselor, and you know it. And if we weren't in public, I'm sure you'd recognize me. About the young man, you will allow me, Mr. Soler, to tell him that I believe that a little has become infected with the experts of the same government, a government that wants to diagnose, diagnose, diagnose, diagnose, but does not end up providing solutions. And you propose to us a young man who proposes to us is that we diagnose, that we diagnose the waiting lists, huh? No, it doesn't seem bad, no; it looks like a point of resignation. Because, in the end, a lot of democratic mandate from this Parliament..., pass the motions, pass the resolutions and, as at least – as at least – as at least – which is with sanitation, few – few, few – are completed. Other things that may interest you most certainly have more in their mouths, but those that refer to health and health, therefore, seem to us not to matter much. We have skills in sanitation. The Government of the Generality has jurisdiction in sanitation. The problem is that, in sanitation, the Government of the Generality is proving to be quite incompetent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah..., underfunding, counselor. Are we talking about infra-financing? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're all right – you're all right. The problem with infra-financing is that you don't have the strength of your government enough to give it the resources you need to provide the sanitation needed to address your problems. And you know that this is perfectly so: the assumptions grow more than the assumptions of the Health Department do. You have the young man ask us to audit and ask us for more transparency in the waiting lists. He's asking for more diagnostics. We don't have a problem. We'll give you support. We have the waiting lists wider than all of Spain, and with the audits, surely, we will see that this is not only true, but maybe they are still longer than they tell us they are, because they also say that there are waiting lists to access official waiting lists. And that's the situation. We'll give support to the young man. It will be approved – it will be approved –, I think even unanimously. There will be no applause, there will be no hymns, there will be no arms up there. After having approved this young man there will continue to be more than eight hundred thousand Catalans waiting for some day to cry them out to be listened to by the specialist or to be surgically intervened. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.154.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.155.0	Well; many thanks, again, President. Now, Councillor Comín, deputies and deputies... well, many thanks to all the interlocutors that this young man has had; well, and especially, many thanks, too, for his remarks. MP Anna Caula, MP Eulàlia Reguant and MP Assumpta Escarp, many thanks. And also, allow me, without bothering MP Àngels Martínez, to whom I also give thanks, but wanted to give thanks to Deputy Albano Dante, now I will explain especially why. Well, I'm starting, so, for the graces, and first to the group that supports the government. We've accepted the papers. I think, and that's what I want to point out, that it's been easy. So thank you, Mrs Caula, you have been very conciliatory; you have helped me, moreover, very much to manage the transactions, and, therefore, everything on my side is gratitude. Now, let me, looking at you, but not addressing you, and I think you understand me perfectly, we want to see the things you said, huh? I insist, I'm not telling you – thank you, counselor. And that, so, well, I won't discuss it any more; in any case, for what you said, if that which you have guaranteed here that you are already and that you are so sure, I don't think the counselor has taken seven months to answer a miserable question. Thank you, Mrs Reguant. And that is why he said thank you to Mr Albano. Their four exams have been incorporated. I think they've given a lot of value to this young man. And, in fact, the reflection that yesterday late we had together with Deputy Albano Dante for me was enriching. It was based on the outside audience. We tried to work, even though, I recognize, it didn't go well. Why did we, and so we agreed, what we wanted was a truly impartial audit, for that external, for more than that, huh? I think the government has understood that, at least we've privately taken care of it, and I understand that this is a people-to-people deal, and if they do, then it's fantastic and, if not, we'll be there to make it happen. Congresswoman, too, at the concert hall. Why be clear and recorded in the record. We haven't reflected on it like that, but those of us who understand that it's a public service, we understand that. And, as always, in the end, MP Escarp – already starting to be a classic too of my motions to agree with you, so, it is again simple – we have also accepted your arguments, because they were perfectly uncertain. MPs, MPs– thanks, president–, we celebrate that in Catalonia the transparency of the health waiting list has enough light to be able to improve it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's go vote the Moció on the health model. The vote begins. The Health Model Movement has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public workers]] [[302-00166/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government about public workers, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they're quiet. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, when you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.157.0	Thank you. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, well, you will recall that fifteen days ago we brought an inquiry to Parliament asking Councilwoman Borràs whether she was able to ensure that public officials would be able to exercise their functions without fear of finding themselves, let us say, in situations that could harm their professional expectations, that could lead to sanctions, that they could be pointed at them with their finger by their superiors, that they could motivate their legitimate expectations of promotion within the administration tomorrow to be damaged, and why does it bring citizens to Parliament such a question? Why has it been necessary for us to bring something to Parliament to vote that supposes that it mistrusts a government with regard to the brete, to the problems it can put its officials in? Well, well, for something as simple as meeting a government that doesn't respect the law. And by not respecting the laws and saying that they have in a drawer a law that is magical and that when it is removed the Statute of Catalonia and the Constitution will be repealed, a law with so much legal power that it will repeal that which needs a majority, as it is logical, to be repealed and broad agreements to be amended, for, before a government that is able to say that it has that little paper that we all do not know in a drawer, we had to go out to defend the officials and that this chamber, this Parliament, which represents all the citizens..., and I believe that the people, the Catalans, understand very well that those officials who are working in an administration deserve to have a work environment free of pressure, and to maintain an absolutely neutral public service in the service of all the citizens and not obeying a government that does not respect it and does not respect the majority citizens, because it has become necessary for us to present this motion. This motion has a lot of simplicity, because it is six points and, apparently, odd points could arouse the support of the camera and even points not. The odd points are those who speak, in sometimes more precise and sometimes more diffuse terms, of the respect that officials deserve and their working environment. There is a first point that is of recognition to public servants, a third point in this motion, point number 3, that the mandates of the Parliament concerning the recovery of the extra payments of officials are fulfilled, that we already have some motion in Parliament adopted not only with regard to 2012, but also to the years 2013 and 2014, and what we ask here is that the timing of payments to officials is respected which was agreed precisely in other resolutions of the Parliament and which has not yet been implemented and recognized by our Government, by the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia. And point 5 relates to the General Bureau of the Civil Service, so that, no more or less, officials can, without short notice, have meetings with the Government concerning the public service in which the issues of interest of officials are addressed, which are not only their working conditions, but also their wages and the payment of whatever is owed to them, but also what they are now concerned about, that their compensation as civil servants is respected. Therefore, points 1, 3 and 5; the fifth in particular with the support of the trade unions with whom we have had the opportunity to discuss it; the trade unions often said: "We are tired of talking so much about us and no one talking to us. We need to talk, and that point 5 talks about these negotiations with the unions for the public service. We hope to gain support on these points. There are others who, unfortunately, points 2, 4 and 6 already speak of compliance by the Government with the laws. And there, therefore, unfortunately, as that is already more difficult, that our Government and those groups that give it support, and those that without giving it support embarrass them to say that we have to comply with the Constitution and the Statute..., we may have more problems in the even points, 2, 4 and 6, for them to be approved. Anyway, we've had the talent to mix 1, 3 and 5, and those do seem to be going to pass. We will then comment on the amendments we have accepted and on the cooperation of the other groups. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.158.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. To defend the papers presented for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.159.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, the Citizens' motion raises two different issues. Let's go into the first one by listing a series of undisputed facts. The Generalitat de Catalunya is part of the General Administration of the State and is affected by article 103 of the Constitution; it must act with full compliance with the law and the law, equal political positions as officials. In order for a law to form part of this binding legal body, that law must be adopted and in force. A law approved and annulled by the Constitutional Court is not in force. The Constitutional Court is entitled to annul any law that contradicts another of higher legal rank under the principles of normative hierarchy and legal certainty, as is the case in any rule of law. It is highly foreseeable that the secret law of legal transition will be annulled as quickly as it is passed. Therefore, if the Government intends to hold a binding referendum supported by an annulled law, this referendum will be illegal. And any person, political or not, who collaborates will be collaborating with illegal action with all its consequences. And anyone understands that an order to an official covered by this annulled law is anti-legal and not mandatory. You have to ask for it in writing as evidence and report it to the judge. Having said that, it is very serious that in a rule of law public officials are willing to issue anti-legal orders knowingly. It is improper, disloyal and denigrating for the institution that they represent, be it the Parliament, the Generalitat or a city council. Explain, as the Government does, that the Parliament is going to pass a law of legal transitionality, which by definition will be contrary to the Constitution and the Statute, and pretend to convince someone that this law will cover an illegal referendum is very naive or denotes bad faith. I'm naive, if anyone really believes it; bad faith, if it's explained to intoxicate, deceive, or knowingly confuse. An illegal referendum on secession is no smile. It's not peaceful, even if no one throws a paper on the floor. It is a provocation and an attack on our democracy, violating even the core our legality as a framework of coexistence. And that's why he doesn't have any international support to boast about. It must be made clear that those responsible for bringing us into this situation of confrontation by stretching our democracy to the limits are concrete people, who occupy or have occupied our institutions. They, and only them, will have to answer to the Catalans and to the history of the conflict that they have generated and fed. Some already respond to justice on the grounds that they did not know anything. Two more notes. First, if the process is impeccably legal and democratic, why does the Government say that the responsibility will be assumed by politicians by leaving officials on the sidelines? The normal thing, if everything is legal and democratic, is for officials to perform their function normally. Two: to date, the only threat to officials has come from the deputy of Junts pel Yes Lluís Llach. Comillas: "As soon as we have the law of legal transition, this will force all the officials who work and live in Catalonia. Any person who fails to comply with it shall be punished. You'll have to think about it very carefully. I'm not saying it's easy. Conversely, many of them will suffer. Close quotes. Therefore, those who threaten sanctions and suffering, who pose unilateral illegal action, are you: the Government of the Generalitat and Junts pel Si. Well, and the CUP, that's not hidden in this. But, in spite of you – in spite of you – public workers can be very calm, because things are very clear and the legality that binds us too. With regard to the second issue of the motion, here is Motion 121/XI of 18 May, very explicit in the terms in which Parliament urged the Government to restore conditions for Catalan public workers..., and to stabilize staffing. Here's the compliance check, the poor compliance check, that the government sent us on June 8. Finally, on 16 June, following all deadlines, the Bureau met and signed some very few agreements. Again, the Government shows us all its incompetence or lack of will to agree on the issues approved by Parliament, to comply with the motions that we approve and that we find it difficult to reach consensus. After our appeal to the Councillor on 26 April and the debate and approval of the motion of 18 May, little more can be added to defend the justice of these claims that we support. We can only demand today, and again, once again, that the Government comply. Curious that the Government feels more linked to the, they say, democratic mandate of the plebiscite on the secession that they lost on September 27, 2015 than to the democratic mandate that this Parliament unanimously approved by practice on May 18 for the benefit of Catalan civil servants and public workers. It will be a matter of priorities and style of government. Do not doubt that we will continue to insist and that people are taking note. Thank you very much, Counsellor, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.160.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.161.0	Thank you, President; good afternoon. Counselor, MPs, MPs, we find ourselves a Citizen's Movement that, reading the content in most of its points, and surely with the object you're pursuing, a, in a normal world, I think I'd think you're a total outcast. Because, of course, they say here some obvious things... some of us who have studied in the Faculty of Law have to think about why we should approve things that are the legal order, that are the state of law, that establish the principles of democracy, right? Well, it's weird, ending up voting reality, isn't it? But, well, we are in this dynamic, in which they surely have put us together for the Yes and the CUP, in which constantly – constantly – they have two legalities, constantly generate uncertainty and legal uncertainty about the compliment of which law is the correct one, and which ultimately causes some groups in the chamber to be obviated to vote, and we hope to approve. The surprise will be that it doesn't come, which is what will happen. As Mr. Carrizosa said, the odds did and the pairs didn't. It's just that the couples are the ones who talk about the legal order, the compliment of the laws, the democratic state of the right, which, of course, thinking that we've been talking about for a while about what we've been talking about, it's quite surprising that there are groups in the chamber that don't vote for 2, 4 and 6, right? , of the points, precisely, that claim to complete the laws. Laws are guarantees of democracy; laws are the guarantee for the most vulnerable, for the weakest. If we don't have the law... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, if we didn't have it, there'd be a lot of people who wouldn't be defended. And, therefore, it is surprising enough that we have to present this and that even some groups vote against it. The case is that the laws may not please us, but they may change. That's why democratic processes have been created to change them, isn't it? , to change the laws. I think what you want to do is something else, Mr. Salellas. But, in any case, we shall vote in favour of it, as it cannot be otherwise, the whole House. There's only one point we haven't just heard, but it's a little detail we're going to abstain from. The rest of us will vote in favour. We agree that the laws, the legal order, must be completed, that if we do not like to change it. And, therefore, in this sense we must protect the functionaries, that in the compliment of their obligations they must, obviously, be protected. And if they don't, then under their responsibility. In any case, what we don't want is for no one to be pressured not to complete their duere as it will work, which is more than the promise when they occupy a public square, isn't it? There are other elements that are parallel to this motion that we obviously also vote in favour, that are those that call for an explicit recognition of public servants. I think we've done it in a lot of places when we talked about the rights of public workers. And it's true that we wouldn't have... but let's insist on the compliment of the motions again, Mr. Sabria, because the government isn't fulfilling. We've approved two motions, one from the 2016 generation, yes, and the other from a few months ago. You haven't completed a few points, but not many. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, not many. And, therefore, what we are asking is that all the points of the calendar are completed for the return of the 2013-2014 pay, those rights suspected that are not yet incorporated... And, for that matter, it would be worth it if we speeded up a little bit of this, huh? So much haste that we have in some matters... it would also be good for us to have it in others. And, therefore, as long as we give and recognize the public servers and the public workers the task they do, man! So I'm not just here in Parliament, with our oral communication, but I'm also doing it with concrete things and we're going to have to get it back. So, too, the vote in favour of these points, which seem very important to us. And, above all, this calendar of meetings of the General Bureau of the Public Service, because it is certain that there was a meeting a while ago in which a little progress was made, but we would like to see that progress can be made in all the meetings that are being planned. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Sabrià – Mr. Sabrià – who knows that it's very hard to find yourself, that it's very hard to reach agreements, that it's very hard to talk, because there's usually a front, and what we want is a dialog, in which we try, after talking, to wake up. And waking up means giving up, too. And, therefore, it seems to me that this is what it is to do to a government. I'm not saying you don't want to, huh? That's always true, she has a lot of good will, and I also want to thank her as the congresswoman. But we want the government one more step. And, therefore, we complete the motions, we complete the timetables and we try, more than verbally, to thank you for the work you do..., which we also thank you for the way it works: with the return of the payments and with the return of the rights suspected, that some are worth very little resources, when it is usually the excuse that you possess. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.162.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. The words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.163.0	Thank you very much, President. Deputies, well, the young man doesn't start badly. Surely, because it starts with a signal point, and we've made a lot of difference between the signal points and the pair points, in this case. And, therefore, it begins by making a defense and a recognition of all public servers, to which we can only add ourselves, too. It seems to me – and it goes for the three people who have intervened before me, Mr Carrizosa, Alicia and Mrs Cuevas – that a little bit is over, too, the young lady. Because we've been wrong for a week and so we come to an agreement. And it's true that we have suffered a lot in this very room and that we have tried to "squeeze a lot, because we have a work that is not simple, that is not to supply the work that is done at the union table, and therefore the work that is done between the department and the unions... but, in change, if we push and... Did it cost him? Yeah. We'd already like you to go away, in some cases, more quickly. Also. But, with them, we come from a very important agreement – very important. And so, things that we've talked about a thousand times, like IT, today are out of control. We have done something that seems even more important to me and that in some moments it has seemed very difficult, like jumping from talking about payments from 2012 to 2013. Is it pac? Yes, but it is more of a recognition of this willingness to recover everything that was lost during this more complex stage and throughout this stage of crisis, where we asked the public workers for a lot of effort. And, therefore, so I..., it seems to me very good this beginning, it seems to me very good this first point where we give them a recognition, but it also seems quite important to recognize from here that the steps are fan, that the will is clear and that we talk about a lot of resources, a lot of millions, and that, therefore, we have to go taxing. And what should there be more meetings? Maybe so. And what more do we have to agree on? Maybe so. And what do we have to close a calendar to get to the end? I'm sure it is. But it's not easy and that efforts are good and that voluntary displays are clear as well. So, I think this week would have been a good time if, along with the three sets of pairs we're talking about right now, it's clearly said that it's been a week..., or it's been fifteen days of very, very important adventures. And, therefore, this should also be made clear. And when this part of the pair is closed, I'm not going to get too deep in the odds, but we're gonna have to give it a ride, too. I would like to thank Mr. Carrizosa who has shown us during these fifteen days, both at the time of the presentation of the motion as today, all his concern for public workers. And I thank him from here, and I want to say that I don't feel sorry for him – that I don't feel sorry for him – that I don't feel sorry for him. And I'll give him a few motiuses. First, the government and public workers will always act under the law, always. And they have the relevant organs that guarantee it, that's what. Therefore, the first reason why I did not suffer and the first reason why perhaps this inquiry was not necessary, and perhaps if it could have been removed. And he gave it to the same Mrs. Romero, of..., maybe not calya, because it doesn't bring us anything else, but, anyway, thanks for the concern. That they do not suffer, but there is also a time when it seems to you that you are concerned that day 1 is a vote, that you will vote, and therefore that you are concerned that you are voting with all the necessary conditions. And here we tell him that he's not worried either, because we're going to vote on how it's always been and we're going to organize the election day the same way it was in the next 30 years. And that you didn't run away because this law doesn't talk about you working and, therefore, neither is it pathetic; at this point, neither is it pathetic. And that at all events there will be accredited people, that will give all the guarantees, that will be qualified, that will be formed and that, therefore, will pass exactly as the Spanish law says and, therefore, another reason why you do not have any sense of anxiety or patience. The only difference, we know – and we don't have to give it more times – is the threats, the constant pressure of the Spanish government, and before that we always act preserving the maximum..., the public workers. And ultimately, in a demophobic state, which will do everything in its power to prevent us from voting, we will do everything in our power to triumph over democracy and, more importantly, we will do everything in our power to preserve it at all times. And lastly – and lastly – he says: "We don't make a record of how you're going to work... Listen, there's no record of how you're going to work in the local administration; the only one that's integrated into the state, and so, if you have any doubts about that, you can perfectly explain it to them because many years ago they existed. And, therefore, you started saying: "You will work with by. So, no: you would work without and without any type of harm. Stay'stranquil. Thank you very much for your concern. Thank you very much. We don't seem to care. Let's hope we've made it easier, we're open to explaining anything to you about any doubt I have. And to Mrs Cuevas, I believe that what we always say to her: that voting is democracy and denying the opportunity to vote, so it is not democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.164.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.165.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs, MPs, this is a traditional trap for those who are used to presenting often, if with the excuse of defending one concrete theme do not attack another for the tangent. And besides, as you said, they sweep it with concrete elements, with symbolic elements of ideological position, beyond the senars and the pairs, so that you can argue that whoever does not vote the literal text is because it does not defend the concept, that it is what I suppose they will do after knowing our vows, even though it is obvious that in a political agreement as a young man counts the text as much as the intentions attributed politically, that it is what we do. In this case, with the excuse to defend the working people and to present some points already approved for this Parliament or others that are in full negotiation process with the workers, with recent agreements, and that, therefore, as points of the motion have no transcendence, you which I suspect – I suspect – attack are the statements of members of the Government, or of deputies who support them, appearing in the communication media according to particular criteria of these media. Deplorable facts, all three of them. The first, that there are public people who are scalded in their mouths and you make comments more distressed than they would if they did a preliminary reflection. The second, that all communication means, to one band and the other of the Hebrew, interpret to the liking and convenience the declarative parcel that interests them, burying a little more the necessity of objectivity; and the third, that is the hardest, that you use these situations, that in a normal political time would not pass from anecdotes, as ammunition of their party mantras and, moreover, make it worse the uncertainties of the collection of functions when they say they want to defend them. He concluded with a triple band: let's leave the public workers behind – let's leave them alone – who are not underage, who know their obligations and who want to do their job voluntarily and with the dignity that they give work rights and a decent wage, if they have them. In this sense, to clarify, we have tried to present him with some points, which have not been accepted, because obviously the object of the motion was another. Let's go for the pams. The first point is rhetorical: show recognition to all public workers. Very well; we will vote in favour, but I suppose you know that you are tired of the government's recognition of your effort to speak, but that you do not return the one that was taken with facts. Right, we will also vote in favour of point 3, which claims to complete the agreements, and point 5, which claims the negotiation at the return table of which it is deut. Point 2 is one of the cheating points. Make use of the word "right state" and invent consequences. From the outset, they say that defending him is a duty; man, of course, but it depends on what you understand by being right and defending him. For this reason, to clarify and to make it simple I went to search for the definition in a book of ESO that I had at home and presented the definition as the right-wing theme. Because, effectively, you understand how I say this right-wing state links all public powers and all public workers. Unfortunately, they did not accept it and therefore we cannot vote in favour of it, despite what the final wording says, with the views of other groups, which is still a legal obviacy. We will abstain; and we will abstain because it has a clear intention that we do not share. Understand our abstention as a passing of this debate. Another cheating point is point 4, because it comes into stark contradiction in itself. He says that laws must be opened, but the Administration will not be able to ask public workers for personal responsibilities. So, look, you can't just have to ask your workers for responsibilities in case they don't complete the laws. And there are some, of laws, above all because you speak of the Constitution and the State, which are legal generals, but it is left all the laws that must be deployed to this legal mark and which, logically, must be approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, which is what we have presented to you as a rule, but which has not accepted us either. Again, they have changed the text, and again the text remains as a legal obviacy with political intent that will also deserve our abstention. And the third point in discord is 6, huh? Because, among other things, it doesn't mean anything; like me, modestly, I don't understand anything. I suppose you should want to say – I don't know, because I'm sorry – that the government doesn't make lists of good and bad, of bad and bad, that it would be very hard, obviously, and that we would agree. But he didn't just say it, and he claims he doesn't make records of you running from other administrations. Home, I don't know, if it's for a better administration function and they agree with the legal framework, I don't see why these records can't be done. I only bought him the final part, when he said that "cooperation and loyalty are fundamental principles of the relations between the different public administrations. Totally fine. And he adds that this is to be done to all administrations, which, as you know, are often oblivious to this basic principle so much as to please the citizens. He didn't accept me either. It also remains, like the other two points, with the transactions it has made, and unfortunately it will also follow the same criteria that I have explained. Therefore, Madam President, we are asking for a separate vote on points 2, 2a, 2b, 4 and 6, with all its points, which can be voted together. Many thanks, deputies, deputies, councillors.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.166.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Then, to fix his position, has the word "Mrs. Mireia Vehi", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.167.0	Thank you very much, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, we have another motion on public workers, which, if we are not mistaken – public workers and workers – there is one at each Ple. They are motions that are based on a legitimate basis of labor claims, but that, in reality, they are going to draw a confrontation between the official body, the public body, and the key moment that this country is experiencing, that it is self-determination and that it is at the door of making a reference. Look, public service is also very important for the CUP - Constituent Creed. In fact, it is one of the trunks of the Spanish State and also of the Catalan institutions that has suffered the most from the detail and followed the people who have had to hold public services despite the decrease in resources. We will never turn the screen to this legitimate claim. Now, repeating one motion behind the other with this biachista doesn't do them any favors; in fact, it only makes them put in a shit when what is needed now are clear things, clear information and know where it is and why. You present to us this young man, who is very similar to those brought to us by the People's Party here, to the plenary, under speeches of defense and protection of public workers, they make them serve as a tool of war. Barregen, I have already said, the self-defense of labor rights, the need for compliments of parliamentary resolutions and political interests, and it is a whole revolution that the only one that does it is that you are doing well, in terms of party and ideological, to put the public workers here in the middle. Mirin, let me tell you, first of all, that there are many of you working in this country who firmly believe in the right to self-determination, which, as Congressman Marc Vidal said, are not minor. People in this country know what they're doing and what they're not and who the limits are, and we hope that on the 4th we'll have a clearer picture of who the risks are and who the guarantees are and who they are. Another thing, public service workers are not their army against the independence process, nor are they theirs, nor are they governed by a vertical logic where you are the command and they obey. And a third thing, which you do as a transmission correctness of certain unions, certainly doesn't do the thesis of these unions much more than repeat it one time and another. Therefore, we will give you the support to point 3, which is already an approved resolution, and we will abstain at point five – already ask for a separate vote, President, if you please – because this timetable that you are asking for is already established and, moreover, a union like the IAC has not signed the agreement of the Public Service Bureau because it considered it insufficient. So let them see their defense beyond the public sector and the public workers that neither, let's tell us, go all the way up there. I'm done. If we want to repeat the mantra of "we need to protect the public workers, we need to protect the working ones. It is a mantra that is repeated in this House very often and to each House. To us it seems good and we would add another: we must guarantee the right to collect, to work and to the people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.168.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.169.0	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the amendments received, I would like to thank the People's Party and the Socialist Party with which we have been able to negotiate a great deal of amendments and have improved the text. Also thanks to those who have presented them and it has not been possible to trade them, to Junts pel Yes and to Catalunya Yes it is Pot. And then he replies that, to the speeches, succinctly, regarding Mr Sabrià, he thanked us for the concern for the officials and tells us: "Relax, calm. Nothing's gonna happen. Well, look, it's unquieting that in the end you don't subscribe to such simple points of law enforcement, because compliance with the law, that you were able to subscribe to points that, as Mrs.Alícia Romero said, are obvious, and also Mr.Marc Vidal said, legal obviouss, so, that gives tranquility – tranquility – to officials. If you can't subscribe to even points, which are those who talk about law enforcement, that generates uneasiness. And then, thank you for your good intentions, but you have not reassured me, and I do not think you have reassured the officials, who, I repeat, are waiting for you to come out with that secret and ultra-powerful rule that will repeal laws, constitutions and legal systems with the small majority that you have in this Parliament, provoked, moreover, by the unjust electoral law. We also wanted to refer to Podemos and its confluences. Mr Vidal said: 'We have moved on from the debate, from the debate on law enforcement. It is not that you pass the debate, Mr Vidal, that you do not like the debate. And that is why you are not all at times, and at other times you are, and it is that, as you think differently, the debate does not suit you. Then, with regard to the UPC, Mrs Vehi, you spoke of "the ein of war, of" using the workings as an army... This war language is not the same as Citizens, we are more of the culture of peace, disputing it. [[applause]] And I also believe that yes, that officials are indeed older and that they will like someone to defend them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.171.0	By allusions, President, of Mr Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.172.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.173.0	Thank you. Well, Mr Sabrià challenges me by saying 'to vote is democracy. Mr Sabrià, a referendum was held in Spain on 6 July 47, where he won the "yes" with 93_per_cent. I do not think that you are so convinced that there was democracy in Spain on 6 July of the year 47. And it's that democracy is not voting, democracy is that no one is above the law. And I repeat, and I challenge you: if everything is so legal and democratic, why do you turn away from the officials? Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.174.0	Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.175.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 6.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.176.0	6.b. Mr. Marc Vidal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.177.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.178.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.179.0	Thank you. Miri, Mr. Carrizosa, let's not pass the debate. Let's get out of the debate, get out of their spots, because they're tired, and they make them serve you forever, on a subject that's obvious, like the mantra. And that's what we're going through, not the debate. We're serious about it, we're serious about it, but not this way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.180.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.181.0	To answer Mr. Vidal, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.182.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.183.0	Yeah. Mr Vidal, they are not mantras, they are questions that you, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, divide them, and I understand that for you they are problematic, but it is simply a question of complying or not complying with the laws, it is not an idle debate in Catalonia today. [[Give me the applause. Marc Vidal and Pou ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.184.0	That's it – that's it. Do you know what's going on? That if we don't, we'll be all the same. As you can see, a separate vote has been requested on points 2, 2a, 2b, 3, 4 and 6. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mr. Vidal, have you asked me to vote separately from points 2, 2 bis, 2 ter, 3, 4, 5, 6...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.185.0	2, 2 bis, 2 ter, 4 and 6.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.186.0	Excuse me. And then they asked for 6.b. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Every point? All points, separately? Yeah? [[Pause.]] So, I don't know. We're going to vote all the points separately. Yeah? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Home, no, the 6th and 6th, 6.b and 6.c; but... why, you see, those that Mr. Vidal told us, the 2, 2 bis, 2 ter, 4 and 6, can they vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, yeah, let's go vote them separately, 'cause we're done before. Go on. Begin. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 49 votes to 69, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 2a point. The vote begins. Point 2 bis was rejected by 49 votes to 69, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2b. The vote begins. So we could have voted together. Point 2b was rejected by 49 votes to 69, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 49 votes to 68, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 59 votes in favour, against and 69 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. Can you vote together? [[Pause.]] No, no, Six what? 6th? [[Pause.]] So, we're voting point 6.a. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been rejected by 49 votes to 69, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. Point 6.b_has been rejected by 33 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.c. The vote begins. Point 6.c was rejected by 49 votes to 69, with 10 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the democratic practices of the Generality]] [[302-00167/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on democratic practices to the Generality, presented to the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. To expose her, the word is Ms. Andrea Levy. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.187.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. In the interpellation with which he causes this motion, the Transparency Adviser and suspensive points have already been submitted late. Today he does not even want to be present in the debate, which demonstrates the great interest of this Councillor of suspensive points in terms of the democratic quality of the Government and of this institution of the Parliament of Catalonia. I was commenting on the question that the policy of the Government of the Generalitat cannot be based on post-politics, where objective facts do not influence decision-making... [[Widow's remorse. The speaker is addressing the president.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.188.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.189.0	Thank you. Whenever you want, huh? It only goes of democratic quality, which you do not care about, with which [[applause]] I understand that you don't listen to him – I understand that you don't listen to him. Even the counselor does not come; imagine the respect you have for this. Well, with which... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I come more than some of you, I come more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.190.0	I'm sorry, Miss Levy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.191.0	But, well, let's go to that. I would review them... – listen, listen, which interests them – I would remember them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.192.0	Lady Levy, I remind you, please, that, you see, you could feel it perfectly, huh? I mean, we don't have to overdo it either. I can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.193.0	If it bothers me, I'll understand...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.194.0	I can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.195.0	All right, they don't care about democratic quality, all right. I'm celebrating, I'm celebrating that you don't like it. Finally, I invited them to put themselves..., to reflect themselves in the mirror of democracy, to see if the practices carried out by the Government of the Generalitat are indeed democratic. And, finally, I made them a decalogue, to which a new point could be added today: the point where we have known that only those media that advertise the referendum will have subsidies. That is to say, the information quality in the media simply interests you to make pamphlets of agitation and propaganda; it will be that Denmark's democracy of the Mediterranean will rather be of another kind of countries and regimes. I told them that they should indeed monitor the democratic quality of the Government of the Generalitat and, of course, move away from blackmail, so that we can talk, so that we can negotiate, so that we can discuss those issues that concern all the citizens of Catalonia, and also the rest of Spain, because in the rest of Spain also – also – concerns what happens in Catalonia, because they are part of Spain. And that's why we encouraged them to go to the Congress of Deputies to talk, to discuss their proposal; to discuss the, so that they would listen to it not only, but that they could confront the, which seems to be what bothers or does not like the President of the Generalitat. You cannot change the system simply by temporary, short-term majorities, because you don't like it, because the system protects you just from whims and vavancies, because in politics what is not possible is false and because you constantly need this generation of confrontation to survive, because when no one confronts you, when you are invited to dialogue, when you are invited to negotiate, there you leave the chair empty, there you don't want to introduce yourself. And that's when you start to see the weaknesses of the process, that's when you start to see, as we're getting to know these days, that they're not even able to find companies that make those famous ballot boxes of illegal referendums and when they put at risk – when they put at risk – the officials of the Generalitat, who no longer want to participate in their shows. I invite you – I invite you – not to be so independent, but to be more democratic, that your passions cannot be above your public responsibilities and that your actions cannot be ruled by risk. Because what they are doing right now is putting at risk, from the policy they are carrying out in the Generalitat, to the whole of Catalan society. Don't be independent, be democrats. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.196.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. The words of Mr. Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this motion by the People's Party has three parts, which we share, more or less, in a part of diagnosis or findings; another, which seeks to have the Parliament make certain political statements, and one, which is intended to urge the Government to do according to what things. With regard to the diagnosis or findings..., we are going to vote that yes in bloc to this motion, although it would certainly have been desirable to refine a little more, perhaps, in this part of diagnosis and findings. Because citizens would not have put in a motion that "the independence forces lost a plebiscite. Well, they considered that they were making a plebiscite, certainly, in their keys and in their terms and in their framework; if we are to enter it, they lost it, but it is that Citizens do not want to enter that framework. It's just that that's not about winning or losing a plebiscite. It is simply that what affects all the Spaniards, we decided among all the Spaniards, and then they would have won, lost or left what would have come out. That was an autonomous election which resulted in a composition of a democratic parliament. And that's the important thing. So, to put that on record... well, yes, we vote, it's true, they said it... but we don't think we should get into this... make a similar statement in Parliament. But, well, certainly, that's what the independence forces considered. Then, with regard to the diagnosis of being out of the legal framework, they have certainly been out of the legal framework. But does the PP say that? No, no, Is that what Citizens say? No, no, It says... who says it? Well, the Constitutional Court says that, and the Council of State Guarantees says that, and the Members of Parliament say that. And the only ones who don't want to recognize it are those who are just breaking the laws and running over them on a daily basis. And given the diagnostic part, we move on to the Parliament's statements. Well, what are you looking for in this other part? What does it contain? For, basically, that the Parliament declares a commitment to democratic principles and the search for consensus; the principles that everything has room within the law but that in order to modify the things that we do not like we must do it through the channels of the law; that everything can be discussed, beyond the mantras – that is that they are mantras, from Junts pel Yes – that they claim that "here is a freedom of expression threatened and such and, well, this..., we already know that of freedom of expression threatened none. We're talking about everything here. What happens is that no one can skip the laws, no matter how political, and that's what we're talking about, that the reforms of the Statute and the Constitution must always be done by the planned ways, that you listen and remember that it's not only the Spanish legal evil order, in the eyes of Junts pel Yes and the CUP, who opposes you to skip the laws; it's not that, this order alone. It's the Venice Commission, it's the United Nations – which Ban Ki-moon said: « Catalonia has no..., self-determination is not among the legal assumptions. It's just that you're more alone than one. And then, in the part of the statements of Parliament, it would be desirable for this motion to be signed by all of us. Because this is a question of democracy, and of law and law, as is understood not here in Catalonia, not here in Spain, not here in Europe: in the world, in the whole world. Therefore, diagnosis, statements in Parliament and, finally, urge the Government. What is intended? Two points: ensure that the Government will comply with the Constitution, the Statute and the judgments. Where's the bad stuff here? Where is what you cannot vote for? What kind of government do we have to question whether the Constitution, the Statute and the sentences are going to be complied with? What kind of Parliament do we have, in which we have to put this to the vote and we know that those who govern us will not vote for it? How do democrats and minorities feel when there is a government, which has power springs, which refuses to subject itself to the rule of law, as we are to subject ourselves to all citizens? I would be ashamed if an opposition deputy came the day we govern... – and thanks to you we will – I would be ashamed to come and get the colors out of me telling me that I am a government and I am running over the rights of others and that I do not comply with the laws. This is what we are going to put to the vote here. Finally, we must improve democratic quality and transparency. And that the rules, plans and actions aimed at modifying the legal framework established by the Statute of Autonomy, therefore, go according to our Statute of Autonomy. I know that even in the CUP, although they are very disobedient, there are people who have studied law and who are jurists, and I am surprised that these things do not see them at all; even in the scientific aspect, they do not see them clearly. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.199.0	Thank you, President. Members and Members, well, the People's Party presents to us a motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the democratic practices of the Generality, it is the literality of the title, which, for what it does to its content, is reproduction of various parliamentary initiatives that have led both to plenary and to various parliamentary committees, in addition to the Committee on Institutional Affairs of good security and with a sign similar to the Committee on External Affairs. The structure is simple. There are three points, in the first point there is a factual report that we don't share, not basically because we radically disagree with what you say, but because we are mostly missing a lot of things that you don't say. And in the next two points, the second and the third, there is a series of considerations of legal status, with which we cannot do anything but agree, because they are a finding of how the legal order is structured. In any case, we need to discuss the opportunity to bring this type of text back and forth to Parliament, especially considering that the configuration of the majority parliaments causes them to be lost repeatedly. It is to say, to bring a finding of how governments should behave according to the law once or twice, taking into account that often the majority of the government's parliament claims that they want to ignore them, so this may have a sense to mark a proper position, and also to mark or contrast with the positions of others. But carrying them repeatedly to lose them, he began to fall into the land of futility, didn't he? Because it's not that..., look, Mrs. Gabriel and the MPs and MPs of the CUP, or the MPs of Junts for the Yes, the MPs of Junts for the Yes, are perfectly aware that the legal order says that. And it's not that, let's just say, there's a discrepancy... – I don't know if it was Mr. Carrizosa who said "scientific," right? – No, they don't have a technical discrepancy. Surely, if you were to build a hypothetical Catalan republic, you wouldn't establish very different principles from these – go, I hope, eh? – in a hypothetical Catalan republic. No, it's not a matter of disconnection, it's a matter of having a political conflict, of dealing with it politically and resolving it politically. And that's why I'm telling them that we're missing a lot of things in the relationship, because if we're in a conflict situation like we are, probably the People's Party – I'm sure everyone else has a good share of responsibility too. I'm not a little – not a little, huh? So, let's just say, I know it's a lot of effort to ask, but in future factual reports, it would be good if we had everything we've had until the situation we're in. And I say that because this exercise that suits us all, certainly, the Socialist Party of Catalonia also has responsibilities in the situation in which we find ourselves. But tell us that we have not made self-criticism, and we have given up criticism as if there were implert, let's say, cartipassos and cartipassos de critiques. We are well aware of the mistakes that have also contributed to the current situation, but you are now in a special position of responsibility, even ignoring the most recent past in our country. Why? Because they govern Spain and have the opportunity to change the perception that many Catalans have respect for the combination of the Spanish political situation. They know that sometimes I have denounced, let's say, this one I don't know if to tell us half-for or parable that sometimes they use the independence sectors say that Spain is a wall. No, Spain isn't a wall, Spain doesn't have a single will, does it? No, this anthropomorphism is absurd, Spain is not a wall, but the PP lets it run, huh? Then, if we could somehow unlock the political situation and there was a genuine willingness to talk about those factors that make many Catalans and Catalans at these times think that the best solution is secession, we could begin to see, aspire to, some final dialogue, a pact, of the institutional and political blockade in which we find ourselves. I don't know if I'm a genius, an optimist. We are used to the fact that, from their group, sometimes, they are 'institutlli' – well, and from others – of ‘useful fools to independence. It's the same, because from the other side they tell us that we're the worst of bailiffs and unionism and so on. We're in this position. We are demanding that we unblock an extremely complex political situation. We know it's hard, but it's that the other solutions, the other scenes that are on the table are frankly much worse than this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.200.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Then there is the word Lluís Rabell of Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.201.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Well, our parliamentary group after giving it a few times gave up on the motion proposed by the PP and we decided to vote against it. And not so much for what you say in many of your statements strictly sensu, huh? , but more quickly by that, all that, that he refrained from saying. And it is that the whole logic of the young man has a set of traps, and they present us, to say the least, a mosaic, a mosaic of fragmented assertions, some that could certainly be in general, even though they would call it dull, but that end up composing a mental_marc that overlaps with a concrete reality that is much more complex and that in a woman or in a reading that is absolutely skewed that distorts the perception. And, let's go on: the motion begins to question the legitimacy of certain actions of the current parliamentary majority, underlining, right? , that the independence forces did not win the plebiscite that they themselves had planted as such on September 27th. And it's true. The fact of not wanting to recognize the result as such..., to make a certain reading of the result of 27 September, acting as if the current majority of exemptions corresponded to a social majority, or, even so, as if in certain cases equivalent to a qualified majority of the chamber, is the basis of erratic behavior of the government and has marked the entire legislature. But, at the same time, and this is not the case, we cannot ignore the deep discomfort of Catalan society with the current political status quo. A discomfort that is reflected in the composition of this chamber and with the results of that September 27th. To the point that a very important part of this Catalan society has fixed as far as independence is concerned. And this is a reality we cannot escape. And a government responsible for Spain, and you are the party of the Government of Spain, can't turn the scale to this reality, nor can you just invoke the Constitution, often more like a criminal code menu than a co-existence_mark in which we would have to design and build political solutions to conflicts of political nature. That the current majority has more than once ignored the criteria of the State Guarantee Board – do you remember that? – and so much, that has obviated it; at last, a part of the majority will be charged, the Council of Statutory Guarantees. We talked about this yesterday. But here we can also avoid the institutional tension escalation that began with the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the dynamic state, in fact, the balance and consensus on the relationship between Parliament and the Congress of Deputies for decades. An escalation that continued and worsened with the transformation of the Constitution into a disciplined body clearly directed by the PP government against Catalan aspirations. This can't be ignored either. They cannot act as if they are not part of political reality. We don't pretend that one thing justifies the other. And we clearly oppose both the drift of the Constitution in this sense of punishment as, in the debate of the Parliament of Catalonia, the understatement of the Council of Statutory Guarantees. One disorderly behavior nods the other. And it is, therefore, to hear the half-stasis that is taking place, in a minor corrosion effect of this dynamic on the conjunction of our institutions. And this dynamic raises the urgency of political solutions. You say in the motion that the majority..., I quote: "Most Catalans are opposed to the split of Catalonia with the rest of Spain. Maybe so. Or maybe not. What seems indisputable, however, is that a majority, a overwhelming majority would like to be able to pronounce on the subject. And we need to articulate politically, therefore, the possibility of giving the word to the citizenry. We propose a reference; other political forces propose the way of a previous constitutional reform. So, well, let's discuss it. But what we cannot do in any case – in any case – is to interpret the will of the Catalan society without giving it the word. They say that all policy options have a link between the constitutional framework and that they can act in the legal framework and even refer to the Venice Commission. Lately, the Venice Commission complains to everyone, but many consider its code of good practices as a way to base Chinese, where you find yourself at all costs and where you get your hands on what suits you, huh? The commission, worth remembering, rightly criticized the biaix that printed the arbitral function of the Constitutional Court, the last express reform of the People's Party. Indeed, it is the law, but, obviously, it is not enough with the law. The problem of foundations, beyond the very critical management, in our opinion, which the Government of the Generality does, is that the atonement of our society to a full national recognition of Catalonia and the consequent development of its own self-government is bearing all the seams of the current legal order and constitutes the cornerstone of the social and political crisis that we are experiencing. And that's what I'm asking. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – and I finish with this idea – political and not judicial solutions, because there is no justice there can be no right. That is why we will vote against the motion that is being put to us. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.202.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.203.0	Well, good afternoon. We know, because we have not only legal knowledge, but also many other types, that the texts are used to being advisable to analyze them in their complexity, in their integrity and in a global way. In this case, we will not do so, and we will focus on some of the aspects that you think are appropriate for Parliament to manifest or for Parliament to urge the Government. Talk about compromise with democratic principles, talk about guaranteeing rights, imagine referring to people's rights or people's rights, and also talk about guaranteeing the compliment of court rulings. With regard to these points of the text, allow me, therefore, to quote some witnesses. « The second interrogatori began. It looked like it was in the past, even though it was different. The shots to the arms and the cams were accompanied by shots to the genitals and to the head. These last ones were made with a telephone guide. They'll apply me on repeated occasions to the boss and continue the shots, tell me that I know everything, and that, besides, they'll carry my companion. This affects me very much, and they will get along, because from this moment on I made the constant threat, and I was allowed to make statements that she explained everything and that other people also involved her. This lasts like an hour, and then, and always with the head side or covered for the Texana, they put me in a cell in the pits, from which I felt like different civilian guards were spying on me for a rexette and insulting me with words of son-of-a-bitch, terrorist, killing him, you have to do it. This is only two of the many witnesses that we could cite from the so-called "Operation Garzón", an operation that held forty-five independenceists between June 29th – and today we commemorate, therefore, the beginning of the race – until July 14, 92, a few days before, you will remember, the inauguration of the Olympic Games. The one that surely claimed to be an official operation to dismantle Terra Lliure, but that to the practice it was, also, an operation of pain, of lack of guarantees of the state of law, of denunciations of despair and of extended impunity. "Of the people who appeared before me, not one – not one – denounced torture. This is the words of Mr. Baltasar Garzón, former judge of the National Court. Paroles declared on 16 December 2012 during an interview with journalist Jordi Évole. Where was the People's Party when all this was going on? Where was the concern for people's rights, for the correct functioning of the State? By the proper functioning of the body and security forces? The Spanish Constitution, first section, "of fundamental rights and public freedoms", article 15: "Everyone has the right to life and to physical and moral integrity, without under any circumstances being subjected to torture or inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. What did you do before those people who suffered torture? We talk about torture, we can talk about other rights that are also provided for in the Constitution, that are not guaranteed and that we do not see that I instinct with the same vehemence: "living, equality, work, so many others. Were we going to be the motions, the statements of support or the instructions that tax investigated what happened in these barracks of the Civil Guard, in these transfers to Madrid? A few years later, you had access to the execution in '96, and you had the opportunity to investigate all that happened. The verdict of David Martínez Sala and others against Spain of November 2004 – and later came from others in 2010, 2011, 2012 or 2014 – certify that the State did not investigate torture, that the State did not deal with persons who complained of torture at the time they could do so, because unfortunately, when the 2004 ruling also went up the European Court says that it is no longer time to verify whether it actually produced it, but we do know that Judge Garzón signed due diligence when detainees reported torture, despite the fact that he said that he never – ever – reported torture. Not only did they do nothing at that time, but the People's Party and the Socialist Party have at least pardoned thirty-nine police officers, squad movements and civilian guards convicted of torture since the year 91. The People's Party is responsible for the indult of twenty-i-sis agents; the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol, of thirteen. Ángel Acebes, in a moment, threatened to denounce even Iñaki Anasagasti because he accused the Civil Guard of torture, and announced legal actions. You will also announce legal actions against us today to say that the Spanish Constitution, despite saying that torture is prohibited, is not complete? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.204.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. The words of Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.205.0	All right. U: the syndic of Greuges detects democratic regressions of the State that affect especially Catalonia. Two: these regressions are legislative restrictions on the right to freedom of expression in the Kingdom of Spain, such as the Law of Citizen Security and the Criminal Code. Three: restrictions on judicial independence to the Council of Europe in the so-called Greek report, in which it criticizes the Kingdom of Spain for not having complied with the recommendations to strengthen judicial independence. Four: the reform of the Organic Law of the Constitutional Court, the Venice Commission observes the responsibility of the TC to ensure the execution of the first sentences in the execution of the comparative right. Five: the judicialization of politics, as the Attorney General outlined the main plan of the prosecutors of Catalonia with the 9-N report and, moreover, there is a subsequent resignation of the Attorney General and the President of the High Court. Six: Operation Catalunya. Set: Villarejo : « Operation Catalunya is Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría. Vuit : Villarejo : « I was told you pull, but if you get caught I don't know anything. Nou : Fernández Díaz : "This is what the prosecution tunes you. We make a management. Deu : From Alfonso to Fernández Díaz : « We have destroyed their health care system – Mr Fernández Díaz continues as a deputy to the Congress of Deputies. Eleven: false reports against Xavier Trias. Twelve: false reports against President Artur Mas. Thirteen: Strasbourg condemns Spain for blaming Atutxa for disobedience without a fair trial. Fourteen: judicialization, judicial offensive against Catalan politicians. Fifteen: Constellera Borràs, these last few days, accused by the prosecutor to buy ballot boxes. Setze: complaint against the secretary general, also, of the Department of Governance. He said: the TSJ disables President Mas. Divuit: the TSJ disables Vice President Joana Ortega; the TSJ disables Councilwoman Rigau, still here MP. Vint: The Supreme condemns Homs to a year and a month of disqualification by 9-N. Twenty-i-u : admitted to filing the first lawsuit against Forcadell. Twenty-two: the TSJ admits to filing a complaint against Borràs, already filed for the prosecution, for the purchase of ballot boxes and six MEPs from six countries denounce it. Twenty-three: the prosecution denounces the date announcement and the reference question. Twenty-i-four: At first the prosecution leaves Mr. Nuet out to be independenceist. Twenty-i-five: the TSJ deals with the second complaint against Forcadell and the Bureau, and Mr Fernández Díaz continues as a deputy to the Congress of Deputies. Twenty-i-sis: pressure from the Spanish Government to the Venice Commission. Twenty-i-set : from the Council of Europe to the reform of the Rajoy CT. Vint-i-vuit : judicial independence: « Spain, at the tail of the European Union in judicial independence. Twenty-nine: Justices of democracy denounce judicial interference. Thirty: The Government has rejected five notices from the Constitutional Court of criminal consequences if it does not obey it. Thirty-u: Notify the presuppositions for including the reference. Thirty-two: TC's notice to the Constituent Procedure Study Commission. Thirty-three: TC's notice of the resolution of the general policy debate. Thirty-four: TC notice for resolutions approved by the Ple of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thirty-five: Parliament approves the conclusions and Bureau rep a notice from the Constitutional Court. Thirty-six: CT's suspensing the Exterior Councillor's office. Thirty-Seven: Freedom of expression: the prosecution quotes López Bofill for her Twitter comments. Thirty-night: Joan Coma: "To make the trout they have to break the eggs, and have a judicial process. Thirty-nine: persecution of the stelades, not only at the gatherings and at different municipal buildings and municipal spaces, but also to ban the stelades at the end of the King's Cup of Football! Forty-u: and this diumenge, in Valladolid, at the end of the King's Cup of Rugby, the police expelled and denounced two followers with stelades because they followed those flags inciting violence. Certainly, when President Puigdemont went to Madrid to make a conference there were unconstitutional Spanish flags with the ally and no one said anything, and Mr Fernández Díaz continues as a member of the Congress of Deputies. Forty-two : Court of Auditors : when the Spanish justice exonerates the fault of the malbaratament of 9-N, the one done by the Government, by the mouth of Mrs. Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría, it is to say: « We will ruin them for what they have done on 9 November. Forty-three: The Civil Guard quotes the Generality's officials as foreigners. Forty-four: a campaign in favor of the vetoed referendum on state abst radios. Forty-five: Civil Guard sends reinforcements to Catalonia. And it will. Those two days they were questioning... We will vote that not simply because democratic quality and the People's Party is an oxymoron. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.206.0	We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say my points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.207.0	Point 1, so sunny.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.208.0	U?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.209.0	Point one, yes. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-29-3802.210.0	A separate vote has been requested on point 1. Therefore, we will vote first on point 1 and then on the rest of the motion. Vote. The vote begins, point number one. Point 1_has been rejected by 33 votes to 75, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the democratic practices of the Generality was rejected by 49 votes in favour, 75 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
