ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Asking the Government about children at risk]] [[300-00118/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on children at risk, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, councillor, guests... Counselor, we'll be back here to report again that the child protection system doesn't work. At present we have a care model that in a way derives from Francoist hospices, when what we should have is a preventative and community-based model. We have to go, counsel, to a model that does prevention, that works on families and that devotes resources to them. And the centers must be only the last – last – appeals, as the law indicates. Today, in addition to reminding him of this, that we want the model to be redesigned, I also want to convey the complaints that have been brought to me by people who work in the centres, people who work in the unions, lawyers, families, former guardians and guardians, complaints that can be summed up in four points and complaints that are very coincidental, so I can summarize them in these four points: one, lack of legal certainty; two, coercion; three, lack of transparency, and, four, breach of the family bond. Start with the first, lack of legal certainty. Families do not have, for what they do to the procedure, this legal certainty, because they consider that they are in the hands of the DGAIA, that they are not sufficiently escorted, feel helpless, and with reports that are often lacking in objectivity, and because they do not have a _second instance in the declaration of unemployment, as would be desirable. Says a family lawyer: "In the disempairments often they are vulnerable to phonenal rights. They also lack legal certainty workers and workers, because even if they observe irregularities they cannot denounce them, since they are at risk of losing their place of work. Workers working with young conflicts also run the risk of being denounced for them. Children and young people also have this disempowerment, or this legal defence, because in case of risk, they are there, counsel, risk, not damage proven, they are declared in disempowerment, which means that they belong to the family, to the school, to the barri, to the friends, and they are integrated into an institution. Says lawyer Silvia Giménez-Salinas: "In the case of adults, in doubt for the defendant, but in the case of infants it is exactly the opposite. If there is a risk – he says – "the risk should be eliminated, and the child should not be removed from its usual surroundings. As a result, many children and young people, when transferred to centres, feel alienated and punished, not protected. Second place, coercion. From the outset, the families are told by DGAIA that there are no co-workers and they are not co-workers. And it is not those who bring a trial against the DGAIA or do not do everything that the DGAIA tells them. And coercion is that they won't be able to get the baby's tutelage back. They're also telling the guy they're trying to talk to with communication media. Workers and workers also have to be coerced so they don't report, under the threat of losing their place of work, or to force them to falsify reports. Third, lack of transparency. Families have difficulty accessing their consignors, and when they access them often there are missing pages that have mysteriously disappeared. They also have difficulties in relieving answers to questions they make to the DGAIA. Workers and workers are complaining of lack of transparency for which they do barems at the time of granting the concertation to a center, as well as lack of transparency in management and lack of transparency in expenditure control. For the last time, break of the bond. Children, families and workers are concerned. Do you think, Counselor, that you can keep the family bond for an hour and a half to find yourself in a place under the supervision of an educator? More: they don't let them have objects from home, they only get fifteen minutes of weekly phone... Listen, convicted and convicted prisoners have more rights than our children in the centers. Are the Germans separated... Do you really think, counsel, that with these standards, standards that are the administration of handcuffs, they try to make sure that the child can return with his family, that when he spends his time in the center and when the family has solved the problems he can return home, or more quickly give in fact that the child will hardly be able to return to his home? In this sense, I would like to make an incisor and explain to him a question that I think brings light to this aspect. There's a data that can scandalize, but don't be surprised. I'm not going in to explain why. Disadvantaged school children tend to get worse grades than their most privileged companions. Now, there's another time that costs more to believe, and it's that the most disadvantaged socioeconomic class students have a better chance of repeating courses than the privileged class students have the same level of competition. Do you know why? For the different expectations that the teacher has respect to the type of alumni. It's not just a teacher's problem. It's a question of how our neocortex works, which learns, classifies, and that's very useful to us, but it can also help us, as we do, to create harm. Say another way: people don't react to situations, just the way we perceive them and the meaning that we give them. This is how it produces what is known as self-realized prophecy. It's like, a prediction that a little bit is in it itself the cause that's real. This can happen in many ways. Now I would like to focus on the centers, which should be the last – last – appeals. I remind you, Counselor, that you create two-hundred new places in centers, I understand that, because they are overworked, but we don't redesign the model. I'm not going to generalize with what I'm going to say now, but there are things that do happen in some centers, and there are things that do happen in others... I'm not going to generalize with what I'm going to say now, but there are things that do happen in some centers, and there are things that do happen in others... Many of the great ones and those who are managed by religious orders do not have such a good deal of pressure. Certainly, Counselor, can you explain to me how they just opened a centre, a macro centre, in Girona fifty seats? Is it true or not that the international recommendations and here they advise centres of only two children that allow an affection and personalized treatment and integrated centers in the territory? I remind you that the centre of Girona is located in a tour where you can only access it with a private vehicle or a public transport that spends a few hours every hour. I detail the problems of the centers, even though, I insist, I don't generalize. There is overoccupation; there are children living together with young problems; there are situations of violence; there is learning of undesirable models; stealing and eating of poor quality, in many cases of benefit. The physical aspect also stigmatizes, will advise. And by the way, where are the money going to stop the centers when they grab the food from the food bank or the second-hand stuff? Lack of supervision on the part of the prosecution and on the part of the DGAIA, possibly due to lack of media; suppression of the medical educational module, which would allow to face eyes, orthodontics and special educational needs; lack of the figure of the procurator, which must be a reference for children and young people, to whom they could address when they have doubts, when they have problems, but in this sense they find themselves defenceless. At the same time, the centres are supported by dedication, commitment, effort and resilience of educators and educators. But they have them abandoned, Counselor. These are some of the hard work of the workers who must resolve with celerity, on the margins of those I have mentioned before. 80, 85, percent of workers, workers, don't have fixed contracts. Many of the workers suffer from physical and psychological attacks, and this causes anxiety, depression and depression, and falls, which often are not covered, which causes children to be alone or to be divided between different educators. There are workers and workers without the relevant title, contracted as assistants but working as educators and charging as assistants. Workers and workers feel professionally powerless, they lack resources at all. There are centers where there is a computer_sun per center, or there are centers where they are in such a way that they force educators and educators to clean up themselves. Finally, I would like to make a special mention of the CREI, where we have basically teenagers who could not be controlled by the CRAE. I would like to point out to him, he advises, that today's teens and teens have nothing to do with the twenty-five years ago, even though it is only because of the acceleration of life or because they have been educated without any resistance to frustration, at "I want it, I have it. The CREI, however, continue to operate with twenty-five years ago programs back. These centres, therefore, have not adapted to the current needs. On the other hand, young people who stop at these centres may simply be undisciplined, there may be a hard fault, or a fault, may have hard behavioral problems, or may have mental disorders. Having them all together does not favor solving problems, and if they are not resolved is their last chance, and if you do not succeed, counsel, they will become adults and unfit adults, when they have declared them to be out of work precisely to avoid this possibility. And, finally, counsel, the question is to separate children from the family and institutionalize them, but in most cases the results of their employment do not seem better than their biological families would have achieved. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. It has the word Mrs. Pains Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.4.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member, for your intervention. Look, I'll just say one thing to you at the beginning: it tastes hard, because the way you talked about it, it seems that the centers of children follow the apocalypse, with what happens. I will only start with a given: of the disempairments, which is what you are talking about..., of the open expedients that there are, the disempairments represent 0.13_per_cent. In these moments, of 1,390,956 infants in Catalonia, we have 13,661 dispatchers open for some topic; with protective measure, 6,898, which are 50,5_per_cent, and of dispatches of unemployment there is a little more than 1,000. But, in addition, I do not say, from the past year, from an inquiry and from a motion of this Parliament, it is said that we are doing the most transparency. The maximum transparency means that there is a monthly statistical report, open to all the people of Catalonia, that every two_months, or three, I don't remember if there are two or three, it's up to date, where you will find the whole issue of all the unemployment that is new, what is the detection or reporting system and what is the result of the cases of maltreatment, the number of children, those with protective measures, the name of workers, whatever the way an expedient is working, as is done, with all the numbers updated at every moment, also all the professional resources that exist. So, what you're talking about today is what you were talking about: this 0.13_per_cent of what the DGAIA represents. That said, there are some fears you're right about. But I'm sure that what they want with this inquiry, beyond this negative view, is to build and find common paths of work, so long as we can find fraternal alliances to make the most of the progress possible to make a system of care and protection for childhood much better than we have now. And with that we agree. I'll never say it's all right, it's perfect, but we're trying to change it, and I'm sure with the input to the premise. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You will vote in favour of it, because the increase in childhood concerns is an increase that had never been the case. So, we're talking about spending time for childhood and adolescence programs, 237.5 million, explaining it the other day at the presupposition session. It represents an 11_per_cent more than there is now, but more than that, much dedicated to prevention. Yesterday, in one question, he explained: "We don't talk about child protection. Let's talk about the law of the five. The law of five people means, first of all, prevention, and acting in prevention, and that's what we've shown with the program contract. We put a lot more professionals into EAIA, and you know it, according to locals. We get to the roads that the law says, that it never got there. So, first of all, all the prevention. Second part, participation. We have again accelerated all that is the participation of infants in the subject of the Council of Children, in the subject that the children can say their own, both from the centres and from outside the centres. The third part, promotion of rights, where we are also working; protection that does not mean only the centres, means all measures, means that, with this assumption that it gives, of creation, 8_million to 210 new residential places; creation of 48 places of CREI, 80 places of individualized protection routes, 80 places of reception centres, 30 places for therapeutic centres, 16 places for children's homes, 60 places for residential centres of educational activity; 314 new places that, as you see, are not in a centre and close, but only takes into account all that is the protection system. He said earlier: for prevention, funding of childcare and adolescence teams – EAIAs –, 6.5_million additional. The creation of a specialized service for minors new strangers. As you know and have said many times, we have a hard problem; when you look at the data you will see that we arrive at a few figures that had never arrived. This year 2016, seven hundred minors have arrived in Catalonia. The xifra there was until now, any rere year, there were three hundred at the most. Therefore, these, what we can say to MENA – smaller non-accompanied – have doubled this year 2016. But we are also talking about the deployment of socio-educational intervention services, to support families of infants from zero to three years old, to intervene in families and adolescents, to support socio-educational support for adolescents, to assist with travelling socio-educational intervention, to promote family reunification, which I assume has been listening to the campaign, and it is one of the points that we have always said: from zero to six years should not be in the centres. Therefore, first of all, the unemployment, which must be done..., must go first in families: families around, extended family; if there is no extended family, try foster family, and if not, small family units. But, in addition, 1.7 million are destined for the creation of new complements of service, also, to these foster families, because they can, therefore, improve the name but also the quality of foster families. From the department we continue to work first of all to align common strategies of the Directorate General of Child Care and the Catalan Institute of Reception, because we believe that this is the only way we can have comprehensive protection. We continue to work for children's rights, deploying the Law of Rights to the opportunities of childhood and adolescence, as well as the Covenant for Childhood. We are pushing and improving effective detection and protection mechanisms in the face of child and adolescent abuse; for this reason, as I said in principle, we have expanded the service of specialized attention to children and we are creating a research centre on child abuse. We continue, therefore, to reinforce all summer measures for children and young people in a vulnerable situation so that they do not have to come to protection. Therefore, what we do is to understand the protection of infants from a global prism. Again, the protection system has been able to meet, for example, as I said, twice as many unaccompanied minors who have arrived home, and that is protection. I have said this on other occasions: we are not running away from reality. That's precisely why yesterday, as you know, we had thirteen young girls; no one missed the impact that this has. And it would be much easier for the generality to say: "From then on we will not disperse anyone, who, when they are heard, the centers are already full, to the centers there are already people. Our obligation is, first, the infants, and, therefore, we will be there. But also the success model, which with all its vision has always been the negative part. The protection system is also successful, and never explains. For example, twenty-five young people who arrive at the university every year, who get a scholarship; this is twenty-five success stories of protection in Catalonia. We are compromised in the better of the protection system, and it will give fruit in the future. And that's why he encouraged him, as the premise is vital, to vote the premise, and he'll see how the changes will be clear. We are implementing a new model of centres, with fewer places, that allows for more personalized attention, with a vocation of community integration, as you very well said, and children's homes are an example. We individualized protection itineraries to map out a specific life project for each young person, moving from training to employment. This program at these times, implemented very recently, counts with eighty young people, we are working hard; they are on floors, therefore, they have the recovery of professionals, and we are invested above all in the prevention box, to avoid institutionalization of minors in a situation of risk. You've told me about the professionals; it's true, it's a task that's often piled up for complex situations and punctual episodes of unprotectiveness. We will continue to work with them, as we have done so far, but above all more still, because we recognize that professionals are the spearhead of our welfare system..., and remember that, in the category that you have – you will function, whether you are interested or personal – are qualified for the work that you are doing, which does not happen in all the others...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.5.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.6.0	...sectors and in all other spheres. Keep going.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.7.0	Got the word Mrs. Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.8.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, I'm talking about people, you're talking about expedients; maybe because I'm talking to people and I'm talking to you. And yes, my group is here to work together to change this system that we find that doesn't work as it should, that needs another model. Obviously, she will advise, in the event that there has been an abuse by action, to take custody of the adult and try to find who can bring these children together. I, if there is no solution in family, as the last extreme is to pose in a center. We, however, speak of disproportion. They cannot say that they consider themselves more – as we have been through – to sin in excess than to fail, without suspending the sentence that falls on the infant and his family. They are professionally based and centered, and lack territory and proximity. It's okay for me to say they're growing, we know that, but we still need more, much more. We also believe, counsel, that the system must be effective and just, and not a judicial system. It is you who tell the families when they remove the guardianship that if they want to recover it they must go to court. I want to remind you that you on a television show said that you only had a 0.8_per_cent error, referring to the cases in which you bring them to trial and the judge gives reason to the family. There are very few families who initiate legal proceedings against DGAIA, because DGAIA threatens them and because the vast majority of families are of a social extraction in which they do not have economic resources, contact resources, or training resources. Therefore, there are only a few families who do have resources. This 0.8_per_cent of errors would increase significantly if all families could plant them face. I'd also like to give you some examples of what I've said before, just to be pedagogical; I know they're irritating the examples, huh? But it's because I want to be pedagogical. Miri, when I talk about subjective reports, I refer to observations like these: "In this way you have intense impairment at the emotional level, with difficulty to connect with sadness, with manic mechanisms, denying dependence and running away from adulthood. Listen, nothing you say here is observable and measurable, it's all a pure perception of the person who made the report; it's a description, it's nothing. When I tell him that centers aren't the best solution... I'm sorry, but you're just talking about success. It's all right, I think it's fantastic that there's a success, but there's a lot of failures, too. For example, the only report on what we have been able to access – because there is none, not because we have them, I suppose, but because there is none – is a work from the University of Girona that talks about the level of studies that make children and children who are in foster care. Look, it's a report that puts the hairs at the top: only one of the children goes to the course that touches him, or a 16,5_per_cent are absent and only a 27_per_cent up to a quarter of ESO, and, from these, not everyone gets the graduation title. Another example: the young people who are in CRAE and CRAE – teenagers, huh? – they need, with more motivation than any other, a good emotional education. Do you know what happens to guys and girls when they run away and they're a_me without being in the center? That when they come back they make it with money, and you can already imagine how they got them. But, in terms of good emotional education, you can find, as it happens in a center – in one, I don't say it happens to everyone – that they don't want to give to girls, "because they're a mess. They can also find that they separate the Germans or prevent them from speaking between them in their mother tongue, if it is different from the català or castella. When I say that there is a specific idea that respects families, I refer, for example, to the fact that investigations are secretly initiated, and this directly affects the perception and diagnosis that the various professionals in fan; it is what explained them before the self-realized prophecy. On the other hand, social workers who examine families should not only have training, but also experience. A person who is not a mother or a father, or has not gone through a similar experience, and who has not had to deal with teenagers should not report on unemployment; he should have vital experience to do so. And, of course, what I told him about the proper title, is certain: Ricardo Calvo held a union meeting on November 2016, where he recognized that this problem existed and that he would give three months of moratorium to resolve it. And it hasn't worked out yet. On the other hand, I remind you that the past July approved a motion of ours in this Parliament in relation to the disempairments, from which it has just appeared, very recently and as a bulletin, its control of compliments, and the contents seem written in a hurry and currents and to complete the dispatch, but I do not practically answer to what our motion demanded. When you want, let's know and talk about it. And already, he advises, that the motion that we will present will end today's inquiry will have a _only point: create a working group attended by Parliament, Government and civil society, so as to review the model of protection to children in unemployment. We want to rethink between everyone and all the model. We cannot continue to close eyes or stick to a system that affects the future of children and young people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.10.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. For us, the system is not just protection, I've already said it from an iniciator. Therefore, if you only have a point for protection, we go badly, because what interests us first is prevention, before protection. So, here we start badly. I'd appreciate it if, instead of a point, we could do two things, and what we're doing between all of us is see how we prevent ourselves from protecting and having to do the disempairs. That's for a band. On the other hand, this tells me that it appeared as a bulletin... listen, this report is the compliment report of a young woman we were going to present on July 28, which I myself reviewed, which was a compliment, at the end of the year – so, six_months – and brought herself to Parliament in date and form. The one that happens, that is neglected to say that all points are complete. "Develop within four_mesos a protocol of actions. The DGAIA has set up a working group with all the techniques of different teams, which are preparing this basic document. The contents of which it was marked have been reviewed. It's backwards all that was in the young lady's room. It is working so that the Sini @ – the information system of childhood, for which they do not know – can collect these points. There are evaluation summaries to be communicated to all professionals by March, as we were going to be. We are working on a first draft of a document, in a phase of consensus with all the teams, so that they can make their contributions. We were asked for a summary of the reports. At the moment it is already taken into account, it is attached to the synthesis of all the technical teams that carry their reports to the rest of the teams. We are told that in cases of unemployment there was a lack of economic resources at the family unit and at the combination of measures. In all the reviewer summaries there has been added the report prepared for the resulting social services... You, when you talk about unemployment, it seems that there is a person who makes a report, and with this in our regime. Pardon me: all the jobs come before the social services; therefore, there are many people who have reported, and all are specified. And the report also contains the situation of the families, the situation of the family nucleus, as well as the actions carried out for the social teams, before sending it to the EAIAs. An individual action plan? The team has already proposed and awarded with the family what it should be, the plan this; it is known to the family, is reviewed to assess the level of compliment of the agreement. I guess when you talk to the unions you haven't finished reporting it, but you're selling it yourself, you're selling it past, I've been meeting with the unions; you've given me the documents they give them as best, we've agreed that we're studying them one by one of the points; some of them have recognized the same unions that we've already put them on the march, and so I can look at it on the list of people who are with me and will see exactly who we were talking to and what. Referring to the centre that explains Girona to me, he informs me well: it is not a new centre, it is a center that has different plants, it is a center that was very devalued, that was very bad; it was agreed with the technicians and the people that there were in the center that it is a third part of the children, that it was taken to another center; for four or five years it has been doing all the restructuring, and now what it is going to do is to return to the center completely separate; you know that they are working two floors, it will work a third totally separate pis, with units of small coexistence in which we have to finish agreeing with the professionals in the way that we do. So, let's not open a macro centre, one way or the other. Our idea is to reduce the centers every time. We've said it since the first day and we're doing it. I invite you to do once for CRAE, CREI..., which I don't know if you have done it, because, as far as I know, you have the reports, you have the news for reports, you have the news for reports, but I invite you to come, and, if you want, we go together, to all the centers that are in Catalonia and then we can see the way professional people work, to whom I want to launch a launch..., because the reality is that we only have to rely on their work, only thinking that their great task is what makes the system endure..., for a very clear reason, and it's what it says before: they arrive much less unaccompanied than we need to do, and we don't need to do it by obligation but because the protection system in Catalonia is continuing. But for us, first prevention, participation and entourage of infants, and then protection as last resorts. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mrs. Lienas, why are you asking me for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't think questioning is usually given the word for allusions. [[Question to the Government on the Dignification of Child Care]] [[300-00119/11]] The agenda item is: Asking the Government about the dignity of child care, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. Today, Counselor, for a double game. By luck – I don't know if it's by luck or by misfortune –, being the second has done that many of the things I wanted to say have already been perfectly planted for Mrs. Lienas; therefore, I may go even a little faster. Counselor, it is not an apocalyptic situation, but what is certain, and you know it, is that various information has recently appeared about the situation of the child protected in Catalonia. Professionals, trade unions, the syndicate of Greuges, many families have expressed their concern about the situation of these children. Do you want us to talk about cases of assault or rape, cases of rash against the smallest rights of these children? And the situation gets worse day by day until it has reached the limits that you and I have commented, that they are not only unsustainable but that they are already almost explosive, not to say explosive at all. Therefore, after talking to this group of actors, we have been able to make a composition of the current situation in which the system is found, this system of protection from childhood that must guarantee the maintenance, dignity, freedom, welfare, pleasure of these creatures that the Directorate General for Children and Adolescents has not taken care of. But what we've known and what we've known and what we've listened to, what I've listened to, it negates me, I'm very concerned and even I can tell you that in some cases even outrages me. Get in there, then, go. The Directorate-General for Children and Adolescents has four types of measures to complete their protective care for foster children: simple or permanent family support, cohabitation, cohabitation in the centre, pre-adopted support and transition to adulthood. Now, he won't deny us, he can't deny that this whole system doesn't effectively protect foster children and foster teens. And this you know perfectly well that this is so; that is why the council is deeply concerned and that is why the council is taking action, in some cases even drastic, before certain abuses. Why? Because reality shows us that it is not effectively protecting all children and adolescents who are under guardianship. Because from the very beginning the privatization of public centres, the outsourcing of child-care services, was an option – which you know perfectly well – implemented from 91 to 96 for the general secretary of the students, Mr. Felipe Puig, and the adviser Antoni Comas, this option – this option – has not changed. There have been changes, no one denies it, but changes that are not deeply significant, because they do not change structural aspects for what makes the reversal of a privatizing and mercantilizing option of the patience, discomfort, the disempowerment of our infants. And obviously this situation was much more acute with the 2012 crisis, when after the Council gave the green light to the efficiency measures; we are clear: to the retail measures that have only made the situation worse in an unjustifiable way. And I just want to quote some consequences. First, the worsening of the working conditions of workers and workers. Or, we don't take care of caregivers, we don't protect protectors, we don't cover the replacements of low-income or licensed educators, we don't respect the education programs, we don't respect the agreements of the convention of the social action of Catalonia, etc.; we reduce the expenses of the basic daily services of the houses, we have already said: quality of food, clothes, restrictions of basic consumption, heating... And that's to both concerted centres and public centres, and in principle they're much better. The reduction of out-of-school activities; essential because the children, our children, our girls can have access not only to the law, they have all the right, but also to socialize their abilities, their possibilities, their interests. They have increased the management competitions of delegated centres – sub-directions, we would say –, without any type of audience or taxation on which it is made, how it is done and in which these three_ thousand_euros are undertaken for the month that it is reben. I want to recall a phrase that seems to me very explanatory to Carmen Orland, a jutgessa of juvenile jutjat, in an interview, who thought about an Amnesty report respects the maltreatments, i said: "We are betting on privately managed concerted centers, they are becoming multinationals of treatment of minors, because although they have to be non-profit entities, in fact they are business. This is all a tinglado. Carmen Orland, jutgessa [[some applause]] The juvenile jutjat. What faults and shortcomings do we have? In the first place, the absence of an independent study explaining the consequences of the efficiency measures implemented by DGAIA since 2012, both in the concerted centres, as well as the difficult retailing and privatizations in public services. The saturation of a protection system, you know – uncomplicated rates, massaging, barrage of types –, made worse, as you very well said, by the number of young people who are not accompanying us. The contradiction, and I'm sorry to say it there, with the syndic's recommendations; I was right; I agree with Mrs. Lienas, because she continued to bet on high-level centers, she continues to bet. The centre of Girona, as many plants as it has, continues..., a centre that is difficult to manage and which is therefore difficult to develop consistently in the face of this help that they need. The lack of centres specialized in therapeutic and containment treatment, the only adents for minor psychiatric conditions, while one of the last reports of the syndicate, as you are well aware, shows that 40_percent of the children protected by the DGAIA are users of the child and youth mental health centre. The absence of contract of professionals, psychologists and therapists that you serve as a special treatment directly to residential centers; the unacceptable tolerance... – let's say so, counsel – the unacceptable tolerance of DGAIA for cohabitation in the same center – we speak, for example, of Sant Andreu, if flying – of adolescents of seven, told and divided years with heavy mental disorders, habitual consumers of toxics and highly sexualized conducts, with aggressive manifestations, which coexist with infants of four and five years old, sharing mixed washes and subsequent rooms. The breakdown of places on floors for young people to arrive at their majority of age or extolls. The real reduction of family ties and deficiencies in the follow-up of this system of marriage for private entities, enterprises that have to compete periodically in order to manage these services. The supervision of CRAE's educational professionals, especially those managed by religious orders, to ensure that all concerted places occupy them a person with necessary training, a social educator, and not religious who lack the preparation that is required. The disparities in the daily lives of children protected by resources and care qualification if they are public centres or concerted centres – also explained by Mrs Lienas. The absence of a public assessment system, audit and audit of activities and management of public concerted centres capable of identifying incompliments, practical shortcomings or deficiencies in which they may fail. Review contracts signed back and forth with certain entities. Finally, we believe it is necessary to make a profound rethink of the whole system, of its means and objectives, of its shortcomings and possibilities. This rethink must be based on a deep, realistic and distressed analysis and reflection, as I said, where the interests of infants and the well-defined technical criteria define and prevail over ideological, economic and business positions, always starting from the evidence, it has also been said, that the best place a child can be is in his or her own right, that the best place to develop is in his or her family environment. Now, the reality of the wealthy infants cannot wait for us to end this process; our protected creatures, the professional teams that accompany them, the workers and workers who facilitate their lives cannot wait for a more social, more redistributive, fairer, more democratic Catalan republic to be able to exercise their rights as children and as working people. There are needs, shortages and risk situations that need to be addressed as soon as possible. The childhood of these minors is exhausted as we speak of which is the best way to protect it. And in order to solve a problem, one must first know what the reality is and what to do. As Carlos Ruiz Zafon delicately writes, one of the traps of childhood is that he can't understand anything to feel it; for when his reason is able to hear what the wounds have passed to the heart they are already too deep. Avoid the wounds, make them authentic subjects of rights, to them, to their caregivers and to their guardians. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.13.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. It has the word Mrs. Pains Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.14.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, because you didn't make this vision as apocalyptic as it is. We all agree that we need to change our fears; we all agree that there have been a few years that have not reversed what should have been reversed, and I have said that from the very beginning. For this reason, from the outset, I gave to the honourable Member Lienas that what she wanted and thought we should do was build and work and find common work paths, alliances, all together, for a system of care and child protection much better than we have now. I don't know if I've given the feeling that we're doing all right; no, because precisely what we're working from the department, from a long time ago, with both professionals and unions, is to see how we can get better, how we can reverse everything that seems to us not to be okay, and that's why I was talking about that for us it's priority, not just protection, that it's all over, that's why we have to focus more on prevention on issues that have been left behind for a few years, that's for economic reasons, that's for what it's for. The theme of participation; let's have a look again at the children, whatever I gave you... And above all the issue of provision of resources, very important. Therefore, I continue to encourage the two deputies who approve the assumptions, because it is essential for us to this part of Childhood. But beyond that, we don't need to talk about money and we can talk about systems. What are we working with professionals? - We're working directly on it. Measures to dignify the work. What's the big deal? So, we have the hard problem in public centers, and that's what the professionals tell us day by day, but a problem; a problem that is that you will all work well. They say they can't take care of the children's needs because, you know, the situation of infants and teenagers has changed a lot when they come in. The middle of the function is fifty-fifty years, of the public centers, and, therefore, here we are working. We're working with them on an action protocol to give more of them educators who can see settlement situations. We are working with them on the Breath project, intended for those centers where there are situations of temporary conflict. This will allow temporarily some infants or young people to be joined by a particular entity and be able to decongest the pocket that professionals hold. We're incorporating forty interns into the Generality's workers' body. We're working to see if there's a possibility, that it's not legal yet, but we're working with the public administration because these older people who are working or working in the centers, who, as the law says, can only attend directly, can become technical, that's what they would want and would like, and so we can change the public centers' seedlings with young people and with fewer children's lives. Thus, as I said, the RLT of public workers, concretely of social educators. This, for one thing, would enhance and dignify the issue with public workers. For another band, I also say that, acting from the perspective of professionalism, the obligation like the Government is to act and always intervene in favor of the rights of children. So, what model do we have? And here, in relation to what Mrs Gabriela is presenting to me, the model of care and protection of children we have in the department will not be a radical change, I say it now, not to be the public model it must be better than the model that is arranged, concerted with public control, effective and real, day by day. And that's what you and I have talked about on a number of occasions. We talk and discuss how we can improve working conditions. We talk and discuss how to improve the situation of infants in between centers, but let's not confuse public opinion. I would therefore like to launch a campaign in favour of the concertation model, always in the social sphere. We are working with a wide range of entities, associations and foundations in the third sector. There is no centre manager who is not a foundation, cooperative or association. I think that public opinion also needs to know. Not a soul of luster. Therefore, thanks to the collaboration with this concertation system, it allows us to quickly cope with social emergencies. Listen, as we speak, this week, forty younger people in the company? Thirteen more people, infants and teenagers, and three more at the airport, which you know they've said. How do we get in a 50-week public centers already at the limit, if we don't do a social concertation, of the social emergence of the time for intervention? We have great planning, and it's true, but you know that we need to act with spaces of embrace and protection. Second: territoriality. The country is worthy, and we are aware of the reality, that the process of transparency is as clear and obvious as possible, but that it has territorialized the whole country to care for children and young people. Third most important thing: expert. They can't open centres like that. You know, bureaucratically, how long there is to open the center. That we can go more to the public center, I agree, that we can work more in this sense, but at hours of this time – you have the numbers, because more are more public – at these times we have two centers close to 210 places, centers where the professionals are there where they say that there are more problems, not more problems than children but professional ones, as I say, the ratio of ages. We need to completely change the employment relationship in these centers. Delegated Centres, 12, 251 places; Concerted Centres, 75, with public control and evaluation. The same goes with the CREES. With BREI we have a close and three concerted center. What have we done? Improve assessment, have more day-to-day control: all accredited persons; the professional in the sector can be without proper accreditation; inspection and evaluation, even in the new assumptions we reinforce the inspection service appropriate with a sanctioning regime to be guaranteed. Therefore, what would become obsolete here would be that omnibus law which has to be done at a certain time and which now returns with a much more secure situation of public control in order to continue to dignify the service of attention to childhood and adolescence. If the service does not work and the users, therefore, the adolescents and the infants, do not receive worthy attention, they deserve that we have the ability to catch it, to rethink the contract and change it. Until now we can't do it. With the measuring law, I think that we can reverse it and we can do it. Therefore, we agree that we need to improve the system and here we are. We will work to improve it and in which it is at our hands that we will be open to all the nine implants, to all the nine ideas that bring us, but day by day means that we have to meet all the infants. We're working with the unions, we're working with the staff of all the centers, and we're working with all the entities that are supporting this social concert system that we have right now. We'll improve it and we're working on it now. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.15.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a word from Mrs. Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.16.0	Now I'm going to get an embolism with so many papers, because, like I had to go through with it... advise, not pathetic, that we'll soon know what's going to happen with the assumptions. But what's not fair is that every time we talk about some things being modified, some things being improved, you put in some assumptions that you have a basement, that you have some limitations, that you can't push taxes, that you can't change the IRPF, that you can't change the law of estates, that you can't make the law of assets... Look, just that you've come to terms with it – I've been there – our proposals to redistribute the same money we have, like redistributing it, your advice would get 6_millions and an outflow of euros to be able to distribute it all just by paying additional salaries, protocol attentions, the CTTI this fame, 6_millions that could cover a lot of these expenses. And don't tell me either, counsel, you know, that only the concerted or delegated management centres are cooperative, foundation and association that respect criteria, principles. Miri, I'm gonna put a case on him. You heard about the Petit Príncep, the CRAE of the Petit Príncep, which jumped to the fore for a lot of things. Well, the former director of this center charged a sum of 64,508_euros per year, even though the convenience of this type of centers establishes a sum of 36,503_euros. Therefore, it will not deny me that some misappropriation of public funds exists. I will not deny that certain manicisms in the concept of foundation, of cooperative there is. No one has said, or much less, that all cooperatives, all foundations are of this kind, but you know perfectly well that these practices exist and that these realities are there. I gave it to Mrs. Lienas before, and you're right. Even so, we have found cases where people who have been able to report these situations have lasted in their place of work that lasts a couple times – now I don't know if they're xupa-xups – a couple times at the door of a college – now it has to be something else, because now they're eating some other things, children. That is why I told him that in which he can make a profound progress he is in the existence of a public system of evaluation, audit and taxation. Because you said, "No, no, everyone here meets standards and so on. No, it's not. Mrs. Lienas gave him an example before and I don't want to remember another. Why do they ask for supervision? Because above all we would like, connected with a debate that there was yesterday also provoked for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the supervision of professionals educated at CRAE, especially those managed by religious orders. Why? To ensure that these places are well girls and to ensure that there is no constant and constant struggle, reactionary, patriarchal... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, listen'm, now you've carved me into... it's that you've said a horrible thing. Well, you know what I mean. It's just that he always poses... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We cannot preserve the reality, and the system, today, is not a system that gives satisfaction to which it must give, which is to exercise guardianship with full guarantees of effectiveness, with full guarantees of accompliment and with full guarantees of control of what is done in all and each of the centres that are under the supervision of the DGAIA. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.17.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.18.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. I think I explain very poorly, because I didn't come here to defend that everything is very and very well, and I said it as much once as ever. And I said, "Listen, we agree that we must move forward, we agree that we must do this together. I told them: "I invite you to join the CRAE, the CRAE, the children's homes, which we personally detect if they want to, and so on. Studies, there are not many; they also recommend reading the study of the subject rights; exactly, it is said The subject rights of the guardianship children, which puts in comparison the themes of happiness of the guardianship children in centers and those at the level of Catalonia, who are the situations facing the school success of some, of others. I also recommend that the legeixin, that they see that you differ, as close as possible, are not there, but they are not in an exaggerated way. I just come to say two things. We have to move forward, and we have to move forward together. We're working to improve it. It's true that he might have done it by now. The situation in our country did not allow it. So now we're on condition that we can do it. And they're not all money, and I've said it for a good start. Now, for example, we cannot impose any more control, we cannot impose penalties when there is a reality that we don't like and that we don't have to be in the centers, at the concertation, if in the law of measures before we don't have the penalties. Therefore, all this year when there was a situation in a concerted center detected we could not reverse it because there was neither the law of measures; it could not do this penalty. So, that's what we put in. But, listen, what I'm coming to point out is that the reality of the protection system isn't as black as you present it, nor do I want to make an allegory that is the maximum white. As close as possible, there are matizable greys and, therefore, we are because the darkest grey is converted into white as possible: 3,793 young and young children in family homes, 55_percent of the protected ones; 2,957, and I am not talking about dispatches, I am talking about young and young children, in foster homes, and 148 in other temporary measures. That's protection. This is protection beyond the centers. Of the hundred and twenty existing centers, you speak of two, and three more information has appeared. We are working, for example, in a center like Can Rubio, which knows that there has been some information, that you have made me arrive some day. We are working to convert it; to convert it into a subject of mental salvation, because they know that we are working, together with Greeting, as we can go forward here. Reports and inspections of the centres do not corroborate what you describe either. And that's reports we don't do directly to the department. Obviously, I will finish my intervention saying that everything is better and that we are working a lot because it is better. The protection system is also successful and has to be said – we have to say the negative part and we have to say the positive part. And above all, from the point of view of professionalism, I want to point out again, as I have always been, that it is thanks to its great professionalism that the system of all Catalonia stands; because, for a lot of planning that we do, when seven hundred children and adolescents arrive, that we protect immediately, four hours after detecting them, it is complicated to carry it forward. We're about to work together, we're about to move forward, and here we are. We can't improvise; we play life, we play success, we play the right subject of each of the children who need protection. First, family; then, extended family; then, welcome and protection in the centers as worthy as possible, as if they were in families. Small family units, and here we go forward. Tomorrow we cannot change everything, but we are working and I invite all the Members to work in the constructive line that the best protection for children in Catalonia is what we are doing, and that, therefore, everything we see in denial, between everyone and everyone, we can turn it back into a position. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the protection of public workers]] [[300-00116/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the protection of public workers presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.20.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... Honourable Councillor, we are here today and we are asking you to talk about workers; about workers like the vast majority of the citizens of our country, who are workers who each morning rise up to earn a living, to support their families, to pay their taxes, to help the productive and social fabric. In short, that majority of workers who make our land as it is and that it is better every day. There are salaried workers in their enterprises; self-employed workers, who each day raise the blind of their businesses playing their money to earn a living, and also, and to them is destined this inquiry, special workers, who, we can also say so, raise the blind every day, the blind of the Administration, the blind of the public services. Moreover, we can say that it is not that they lift a blind, it is that they keep it open 365_days a year, providing us, among other things, security, health services, infrastructure, education and the rest of public services. They are public workers; on the one hand, our civil servants, and all other people who every day, whether they are civil servants or not, work in our public services. Well, those people, those workers, those citizens – who are also, "citizens" –, precisely for working on what interests and what affects everyone regardless of their ideology or any other condition, have specific obligations, on the one hand, and also, more importantly, specific rights to their bosses; their bosses who are you, the government, and specifically you, counselor, as Governor's Councillor. But the relationship with their bosses is also a particular relationship, the relationship of these public workers with their bosses is a particular relationship because public officials or workers are not strictly owed to their bosses, but to all citizens, without exception – to all citizens, without exception – think what they think. And public workers – like all citizens, but, logically, more rightly – have the obligation to comply with the law and the legal order, which they do every day, giving example, by the way, to their government. The problem for these workers – and here we want to go – occurs when, as in Catalonia, the government has the explicit and declared will to fail to comply with the Constitution and the laws – explicit and declared – and this creates a serious problem for these citizens, who in Catalonia are, no more than about 230,000 people. Because all the action of the Administration, that is, all the action of the Government is carried out through the officials. The Government may not act in any area of its management without giving orders, instructions or any indication to its officials. And those orders, in principle and logically in any democratic system, officials are obliged to comply with them, is the normal functioning of an administration. That is the case, but it is also true that the times of blind obedience have already passed in democratic systems such as Spanish, fortunately, and public servants cannot be required to obey orders contrary to the law, the Constitution or judicial decisions. Some, such as you or your governing partners of the UPC, call to disobey democratic laws, but the only legitimate disobedience – the only legitimate disobedience – is that exercised in the face of orders or instructions contrary to the law. Because look, Madam Counsellor, yes, there is a legitimate, perfectly legitimate disobedience, a disobedience that is a guarantee of democracy, and it is so legitimate that in democratic countries like Spain it is precisely provided for by laws; it is provided for by laws. I will read to you one of the principles which, according to the law, govern the conduct of public employees, and is in article 54 of the basic statute of the public employee, which states that these employees, these citizens, these workers must obey the professional instructions and orders of their superiors, unless they constitute a manifest violation of the legal order. There is legitimate disobedience to orders that are illegal. I hope that Article 54 should not be applied, because that would be bad especially for these citizens, but I ask you to take into account what you say. As I say to you, I do not want that time to come, I do not want to call on public workers to exercise that legal right now, nor do I want to have to do the never and never have to do the ever. I only intend that you, that the Government to which you represent, the Government of all Catalans or that it should be the Government of all Catalans guarantee us, and above all that you guarantee to those public employees, that you will never give an order, an instruction, a recommendation to your officials to violate the Constitution, the law, and therefore to put these workers in a very complex thesis – in a very complex thesis –; in this case, vital, because they are people not like you, politicians, they are people who make a living and who have a salary to reach the end of the month, to carry out that task. And if I ask you that, it's not because it's an occurrence, it's because your government gave support... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If you'll excuse me, I'll continue the interpellation. And then, if you want, the counselor will have a chance to answer me, and if she wants to do what you can, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.21.0	Please, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.22.0	And if I ask you that it is not because it is an occurrence, it is because your Government gave support and approved a text like this, which says: "The Parliament of Catalonia reiterates that this chamber and the process of democratic disconnection of the Spanish State will not be subject to the decisions of the institutions of the Spanish State, in particular the Constitutional Court, which considers lack of competence and legitimacy. The Parliament of Catalonia urges the future Government to comply exclusively with the standards or mandates emanating from this chamber. I mean, the Constitution here is not good for you. And you have not given up, much less, to that, and if so and you tell us, for I will be delighted; but I do not believe, because you have a supermegasecret national transition law that will culminate in that disconnection. You will therefore understand that I am concerned about the situation of these workers, because in order to carry out their purpose, as they need to give these instructions to the public workers and put them in a very complicated thesis. On the one hand, failing to comply with an order from a superior – i.e. from you – which could lead to disciplinary responsibility. But, of course, as you are so intelligent and foresee everything and have a super-mega-cathedratic, Mr.Viver Pi-Sunyer, you also intend to give the appearance of legality, which will force these workers to decide, sometimes without the necessary legal training and immediately, whether or not to comply. Also because failure to comply with your orders can amount to discovering your position on the constitutional primacy that you deny as a political position, so basically you would also be forcing you to mark yourself and identify yourself politically, which is nothing but a violation of a fundamental right. Worse still if the Government, in an act of shame, refuses to issue an express and written order and does something like an oral recommendation, placing these people on the edge of a precipice, and transferring the burden of a breach of their duties, without even allowing them to accept what would be due obedience. An unacceptable coercion that would put them between the sword and the wall. In short, it seems to me wrong for you, as a government, to disobey the Constitution, but what I want at least to be able to ensure that you alone assume the consequences and do not transfer the gravity of your actions to people who have nothing to do with your revolutionary obsessions as an official car. Because you, from the official car and paying 100_000_euros a year, would put ordinary citizens in a complicated situation, citizens who earn a modest salary at the end of the month. And those workers, those people, those citizens, mostly, unlike you, want to continue working for all citizens – for all citizens – regardless of what you think. I only ask you to assume the consequences exclusively and therefore to ensure that this Government will not give orders or recommendations to its officials who contradict the law, resolutions or the rest of the law. And if you don't take on this commitment here today, you will be neglecting hundreds of thousands of people over whom you, as a governació's advisor, have a great responsibility. And if you assume that, which is what I hope, we will have the opportunity to vote on the motion that will follow this inquiry. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.23.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.24.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today you are asking me about the public workers of the Generality, and you are giving me the opportunity and opportunity to do various things, aren't you? In the first place, a recognizance; a recognizance to the task that realizes this collection, which I certainly believe is certainly a task that is not sufficiently valued by the same society. And so, in this sense, I believe that at a time when we have had a difficult economic crisis and that if it is true that the difference between the rest of the country's workers, therefore, they have not suffered for their work strictly, they have suffered the consequences of a difficult crisis and this has led, therefore, to a loss of rights, which they are recovering, and that, therefore, in this sense, I believe that if it has kept the welfare state, that is, it has been thanks to the firm commitment of the public workers. Well, you've been telling me about the defense, and your questioning, haven't you? It is about the defence and protection of public workers, and I ask that we do not put them in a situation of difficulty and that, therefore, in this sense, we guarantee them, therefore, that they will be able to do their job with complete peace. Well, listen to me, this is a topic that the government has expressed from the right and the reverse, and this is a topic that today – and it will continue to feel like this – so there is no threat to public workers. It is more, I believe, with all sincerity, that the only threat that has been posed at these times by public workers is that you are asking for the People's Party to do about public workers. They want to generate the por, they want to generate the por, so they want to generate the labor hard to term by the public workers, and you have clearly demanded that maps be sent, one by one, to the public workers of this country, so that you put them in alert state so that I don't know how many things. But you know, precisely, that the unions – the unions of this country, the majority unions in Catalonia – do not stop or listen, we might say, to their speech of the por, and therefore, they are part of what this National Covenant is for the right to decide. And in the National Covenant for the Right to decide, therefore, you know that there is the General Workers' Union, you know that we also count on Workers' Commissions, there is the Workers' Union of Catalonia and the Interunion-CSC..., why? Because they certainly answer to what is the majority view of this country, which asks, more than 80_percent of the citizens of Catalonia, that a referendum is possible in the long run, that we can vote on what we have to decide in the future. Therefore, this is the situation today. Our government, as I said, has not, and will not, therefore, put a worker in a risk situation. And, therefore, in this sense, I ask you to be calm. Believe me, there has been no report or instruction that I agree to fail to comply with the current law, nor has there been any concrete instruction that prompts public workers to disobey the state of law. This is a fact that does not exist, and therefore in this sense, also tell him that he is very calm. We know, and we are very clear that the Administration acts in accordance with two principles: one is the principle of hierarchy, logically, but also fully subtly to the law and the law in force. And that is what it will do in a constant and permanent way with public workers. Here it will not be asked anyone, believe me, that I disobeyed and that it is based on what is the function that is close to the whole Administration, that it is the service to the city, as you said, and serve the laws in force at all times. This is the reality in which the Government of Catalonia will respond. Therefore, we will do nothing but do the right thing girls, which is what must give the full guarantee that you will work. And, therefore, listen to me, we, I insist, give this guarantee. And it's not pathetic, it's not the people who will work, but the people who will vote; it's the citizenry that will make the result work, and we have guarantees that this process, in addition, we need to be able to do it in a clear, transparent, effective and effective way. The strength of this process – no one can question it – is precisely the strength of the people, and that is what has been shown. And from here, listen to me, we insist, we guarantee and guarantee that you can work with peace and independence, and I would very sincerely like you to stop using them as a political tool, because that's what you do in a continuous way, isn't it? I believe that we should let work quietly and that, therefore, it would be good for you, in this sense, to take another attitude, and allow public workers to work quietly. You, in fact, don't know how to put up with the reference, and so what they're doing is looking to bring to court everything they can and have in hand, right? But, listen to me, you were talking to me, therefore, about a resolution adopted in Parliament and telling me that the government is acting in a way that cannot be done. Listen to me, what you were talking about, in concrete terms what you were talking about, is a subject that has been approved here in Parliament; therefore, it is not a mandate of the Government: it is a mandate of the Parliament to the Government. What you were saying to me: "You, at the same time, etcetera... No, you, I don't know whether, at the same time or at the same time, you have approved a resolution that asks the government for a whole series of actions. And that, which you think didn't work out well... what do you want me to say? It's the result of democracy. Or do you not accept democracy? What this Parliament has approved is the fruit of democracy, and so I understand it, you are in a minority and you do not like what has been approved, but listen to me: believe it or not, in democracy? You think what needs to be done is what you want from those who voted, so they gave sovereignty to this Parliament in Catalonia? Or is it that you don't believe democracy? Or does it turn out that you only believe democracy when you're handling your theories? And it turns out that you just think you have to do what Parliament sends when it's what you like? So, no, democracy isn't like that. Democracy means that if this Parliament gives a mandate to the government, whether you like it or not, it is a democratic mandate. You know what? If this Parliament makes a mandate to the Government of Catalonia, you must respect it, because this is a mandate that this chamber has democratically decided. And that's how democracy works, and here's where, it seems to me, the big difference between what you're exposing today and what I'm exposing myself to. What leads to democracy is obviously, in the first place, the will of the people, which is demonstrated through..., of various ways. One: logically, through the votes; two: through these votes, there is a democratically chosen chamber and it is this chamber that has made a concrete mandate to the Parliament of Catalonia. Listen to me, don't tell me that this is a government's will, this is a parliament of Catalonia's will, that the government, therefore, obviously assumes, and that therefore it is committed to pulling it forward, but I insist, you insist, the only one that you want to do is to move away from the public workers; you the only one that you want to do is not accept democracy, because you don't accept the mandates of this Parliament, which has been democratically chosen, is not to accept, I insist, democracy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.25.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. Next, there is the word José María Espejo-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.26.0	Well, I discovered today, Commissioner, that you are a high-level political philosopher: "Democracy is me and what I say, that is your approach. For, no, democracy is something that has been described in political philosophy for a long time – a long time –, long before, even, that this Parliament of Catalonia, very much, and democracy in modern political philosophy is the fulfillment of the democratic law, of the democratic law that is the Spanish Constitution voted overwhelmingly by the people of Catalonia. That's democracy – that's democracy. [[Greetings.]] Look, overwhelmingly. Doesn't it embarrass you – doesn't it embarrass you – to say that we use officials as a political tool after saying publicly...? , Meritxell Borràs : « It is normal and necessary that you operate agafessin party to accompany More, is it not embarrassing to say that we use officials as a political tool after saying this publicly? [[Greetings.]] That is to use the officials, not as a political tool, but as a clamp for a political option, which is much more serious, especially when said by a head of the department who directs the officials. That's what's serious and that's what's embarrassing – that's what's embarrassing. And as for what you say about the unions, which support the pact for the repetition of the 9-N... Look, that's legitimate on the part of the unions and it's legitimate for every official to think what he wants. I don't get involved in what the unions think or what each official thinks, you get involved in that, which is what you have argued here: "No, it's that the officials... It's not that the unions representing the officials think so. No, no, no. I'm not getting into what the officials think, I'm not like you. What I am saying is that they guarantee to officials that they will not give them any instruction, no order, no recommendation – not contrary to the current legal order, because we could enter into a discussion about what is in force or not –, guarantee that it will not be an order contrary to the Constitution. Are you prepared to tell us here that you are not going to give any contrary order or instruction contrary to compliance with the Constitution, which is the supreme norm of the Catalan and Spanish legal system? Can you guarantee this to us here or will you not do it and will you vote against the next motion we are going to put to Parliament, which is going to ask exactly that question? Because I already know that you in an act of political shame have a law of legal transitoryness that you do not have the courage to teach; you do not have the courage to teach the instrument on which you intend to base yourself to complete that impossible process of disconnection. An instrument which, on the other hand, will not serve them, as none of the innumerable political and legal events they have had so far have served them. It has served them not one and will serve none, but at least have the courage to show it – have the courage to show it. I..., obviously it is very clear that the position I maintain regarding your will to disobey the democratic legal order... – it is very clear – and I have said it and I will say it a thousand times and my group will say it a thousand times, but I have to do one, let's say, praise the coherence at least of your governing partners of the CUP, because they do not hide. They defend a political position, which I certainly cannot be further apart from, but they do not hide. You do, you hide day after day and you make speeches that you can't fool anyone anymore, in fact you create major tensions with your government partners because your partners don't hide – they don't hide. And you have a supposed law of legal transitoryness – let's go and find out if you have it, because [[the timer riu]] is that something that is said "we have a law of legal transitoryness... so, teach the, if nothing happens, assume it – but do not make people who have nothing to do with their political obsessions of official car and 100_000_euros a year pay the consequences of their actions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Answer the councillor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament... listen, Mr. Member of Parliament, as a philosopher, but I do know how to read and listen to what I read. And, therefore, I will read it, because it seems to me that it will be the easiest and you will give me more credibility. Do you know what the Royal Academy of Language says about democracy? So, miri, because there is no doubt I will read it directly there, says: "A form of government in which political power is exercised by citizens. Political doctrine according to which sovereignty resides in the people who exercise power directly or through representatives. So, that's, that's what I gave him. That's what's going on in this room. That's what's there and that's what you don't accept. Do you know what's going on? Democracy was born long before the Constitution, and this you should take very much into account. And, therefore, in this sense, what is democracy? So, that's it: it's the people's voice that ends up, so deciding. And it's what you want to prevent from everyone – it's what you want to prevent from everyone – that you're judicializing everything – that you're judicializing everything. And he says, "Doesn't they shame you, your statements? Not one, on the contrary. Listen to me, before the fact that a political fact has been judicialized, before the fact that they have judicialized and brought it - they have brought - to the courts, against those who were at those times the prosecutors of Catalonia, that they will have to change the entire prosecution of the country in order to be able to carry it before the courts, it turns out that when they bring - therefore, yes, there is a court - President But, Vice President Ortega, Councilwoman Irene Rigau, therefore, yes. I say, before the question of the journalist who says to me: "Listen, would you see that the public workers agafessin a day of subjects suitable for going to support President Mas? , I say: "Yes, I would find it well and including necessary. Well, yes. And if you're scathing, then it's hard for me, but it's my opinion, and so here we are. Now, the big difference is what you do. And you say you don't tell him you're using it as a tool. And so much, so much, so much, so much, so much, so Miri, I read it too. You, Mr. Rivera, concretely, who expressed himself very critically with the inaction – inaction – of Mr. Rajoy during November 9, 2014, placed the Spanish Government to deploy a card-sending campaign as a preventive measure to avoid the reference: "Citizens want the Spanish Execution to use Administration and Justice to double the pressure on the Generality's officials to warn them of the missive of the consequences of disobeying, etcetera. The only one you want to do is generate by. And you know what? The unions in this country have answered them in the most peaceful and wise way, which is part of the national pact that we have put forward. Therefore, listen to me, you can go to whatever you want, what you have to do is to accept democracy; what you have to do is to accept that you are in a minority; what you have to do is to accept that this Parliament – this Parliament – has made a mandate to the Government and, therefore, what it has to accept is that this country has to be able to decide, this country, like any other, that it has to be able to vote in freedom and without its threats. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.29.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Borrás. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into agricultural, timber and forestry policies]] [[302-00084/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on agricultural, ramadere and forestry policies presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, she has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.30.0	Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President. First of all, to greet the representatives of the rural agents of Commissions and Asparc who accompany us, and to reiterate their condolences for the assassinations of Xavi and David, two people, in addition, of the member, many compromises. The Xavi had been here in 2012, when we made the appearance, and I think we can move forward today, and the best record honor we can do is work them all out and move forward to resolve all the challenges the body has, and I think that's what we're going to do. Well, to thank everyone you've submitted papers, too, because she was a childish young man, I admit, she was long and complicated. Maybe that's why we can't talk many times about agriculture or the first sector in the House, so when we try, right? We put in all the model things that concern us and, well, I recognize that I've got a little bit of a clamp going and I've done a really long job, so it still has more value, and I thank all of you who have submitted papers, and with which we were able to negotiate and trade, especially in the Carmina; also in the department's relationship head for the effort to reach a consensus and agreement, which is not easy – which is not easy. And before you tell me who you're going to be talking about, I'm telling you: this young man, we have to look at him globally, and I think we've been trying to reach consensus. You can tell me: "Oh, you're very patient. Well, then, yes, I certainly do, but I look at it as a whole and the one I tried to... Well, first, there was a part that was out of time, because remember that this young man we introduced to the beginnings of November, when we were still with all the presuppositional debate. So there was a point that they were very related to the premise and that I think I didn't even get it right now because we're holding it in another context, this debate. And so, I wanted to look globally and I wanted, above all, from the different models that we have each other, that we have to recognize and it's legitimate, we have them, we don't have the same model, maybe for what it does to water, for what it does to water, for what it does to the key themes, right? But there are some common ones, some very common denominators that I think we can find because they can move us forward and for the sake of the sector, and because that's what they're asking us all, the ramaders, the rural agents, the ecologists who live with the ramaders, the ones who..., all of us. So, with this idea, that's what I've been trying to work with, that's what I've been trying to work with. And it's obvious that there's not all that our group, Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, we'd like it, as I suppose the government had to give in to things that aren't what they'd like either. And they also recognize that it's hard to turn a department that over the last few years has gone in one direction and that I understand that there are issues that they want to change and change, and this is not easy – this is not easy – and it needs to be recognized. So, I, it's in this sense that I want to put this young man in value. There are key questions that I think we have advanced and that, as counsel, we will be very fond that the vagina complements them, related to historical requests and that they are also in the presupposition. For what it does to the protection of agrarian soil, access to the earth; I think we have advanced in the matter of discharges, commitments. Also for my important point, the issue of the Garrigues, that if it audits, that if it does not audit. Well, I can make it clear that these accounts, within Regsega, within Infrastructures. Cat, they're already being heard, and that, somehow, that's a compliment to what the CADS report was saying, so it's a question that calms us down. After we have to see if we have to re-finance the whole economic plan, that's what we have to be on top of, but I think it's already a guarantee that we have an independent auditor who's telling us whether we've spent too much or not; it's also a question that we'll have to see, because it's a great work, and maybe refocusing on the needs. For what it does..., there is a theme that for me is also important, which is the theme..., it makes us move forward on the animalist theme, on the subject of animal welfare, which is the subject of hunting birds, which may seem a minor theme, but which concerns a sector and which I think we are taking a step further, even though in the subject of weapons permits and animal maltreatment the powers of the State itself have them. So... but in this sense I also say that our group, United We can, in the Congress, concretely the Urald, the Equo, is also working, is presenting a GNP to work in this sense. And that makes us move forward, that we in Catalonia have always been advanced in fears of animal welfare. Also the understandings that we have reached with rural agents and that I think they are the beginnings of a job that I know you will start with the body and that we hope you can give fruits to develop the CAR. I was running out of time. In any case, after that, it will be concrete. So repeat thanks to all groups. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Mr Óscar Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.32.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, members of the Government, representatives of rural agents, welcome, thanks, of the different entities. To start, as it cannot otherwise be, from the Socialist Group, giving sympathy for the two murdered agents and at the same time of recognition of the great task of the body and, therefore, I believe that the unfortunate accident has occurred I believe that we must all reflect calmly on how we can guarantee the safety and conditions of work that are added in the future, and above all to listen to a group of things that do a lot of good work, but that surely it is not enough to take account of the later years and, therefore, to update the demands, the support and the resources needed to continue doing their work and that their good name, therefore, continues in the line that has been the last years. Secondly, what we also want to do is, coincidentally, that today we have started the page march – we have already said this – in which the agri-food sector, the agricultural sector and the branching starts a series of mobilizations today, tomorrow and tomorrow, from Catalonia to Barcelona, to demand the sector's economic, social, territorial import and to settle the different issues they have pending. In the third place, as Hortênsia said, I believe, Hortênsia, that it is true that you have passed, because a movement of eight pages, so extensive, there is a lot of reflection, it is fine, but then, at the time of realization, it costs a lot. It's all right, in any case, that the day we make a farm movement there is the necessary reflection and, therefore, surely that day we need to talk about everything we care about. In any case, you know, with all the ‘kindness and that we agree on many things, we find ourselves missing... We will vote practically on many things that yes, some fears that we have not just seen, have been implemented a little or that we certainly do not agree with the general reflection and, therefore, in some ways we will abstain, but we do think that, from the Socialist Group, we think that, well, we have accepted a few points from the Socialist Group, some yes; two, it has been very unanimous with Junts for the Yes, which is quite legitimate, but we believe that there is certainly a need for more concrete action in some respects, for more to be taken in the presuppositionary parties and for more to be assessed if this year of governance, so, which things have worked, which have not worked, which policy have not worked. And as we also say in committee, those indicators that are working, but those socio-economic, territorial, page, land income, land abandonment, which have worked and which have not. Sometimes it gives us the feeling, which is here where we don't agree, apart from making the motion more concrete, with concrete presuppositions, with more concrete programs, especially with criticism of what is not working. Sometimes there is a lack of a not-so-romantic, not-so-conservative view of the territory, just because, for example, we say that we need to promote accessibility to the land. We say: "Home, the most important thing is that people don't leave the land. It is much more expensive for a new person to go to work on some land, that he does not try to make those who are there a living, that the land is productive, that the territory is competitive and that our businesses, apart from doing ecological agriculture, that they can do it, but there is also space because from the end of the territory they export from the world, there are competing products, different prices, different qualities and, therefore, not only a romantic, conservationist vision but also a competitive, value-added, export visit. And, therefore, from the small, medium-sized agricultural, branch or food industry to the large, so I think that here there is a lot of recourse and in which each one obviously needs some concrete things. As, of course, also a comprehensive and broader view of the agri-food sector, of the territorial sector, in which different infrastructures, different investments affecting different departments, affect, as we have already said, carts, infrastructure, mobile telephone coverage – which we find to be lacking, with the fall of the reversal of the last years, which also speaks more. Therefore, presuppositional measures. We believe that it is necessary to ask, once again, that the decree on the disposal of branches is present and is approved as soon as possible, because we are at the end of the legislature in the terms in which the Government had proposed it. Hunting Law: It will be more or less complicated to do the reflection, obviously, but we cannot continue as we are, and with the Hunting Law we make a reflection of many of the themes that we have on the table and that we still have pending. Therefore, concrete investments; encouraging that people do not abandon the land, that they do not abandon the farms; forestry profit with concrete measures; the payment of the MCPs, which we have demanded so many times. Therefore, we will give support to most of the points of the motion. We have certainly found a more critical view of the government, that you accept some more than our group. In any case, obviously, we are moving on working all folds. Many thanks, deputies, deputies, president. Rural agents, we are with you to continue working for the good of the body. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. The words of Mr. Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.34.0	President... welcome all guests of the Rural Agents Cos. Unlike my predecessors, I will talk about rural agents at the end of my exhibition; I have reserved myself a space for the body. Congresswoman Grau, thank you for this young lady, because she gives us an option to talk about what we want, because she practically touches all the agricultural issues. And thanks for the work of seeking the maximum consensus and what parliamentary arithmetic is about; my recognition, at least, for the work that has been done. I understand that many of the items and transactions that have been incorporated are better in the text, and others are not so much, or I understand that some even make it worse. In general, I believe that, to the extent that it is approved, the whole and the completion of many of the points has been reduced enough. A concrete case that I wanted to explain, because it doesn't fit, because with the length that is not giving me time, it would be an example that..., you introduced a question where is barricade what is country, what is government... And it's just that it makes me feel like the government doesn't seem to like having government projects. Instead of government projects, it turns it into country projects. And it's a way that... well, we understand that there's life beyond the government. Don't confuse what the government does – what the government does – and what the country wants or what the country does. In this sense, there is a point that spoke of the promotion of ecological and traditional productions, of quality, and favoring the trade of proximity and local products, which is..., I think no one would vote that no, and it is transformed into a transaction of the group that supports the Government, and starts talking about following a country project, of food sovereignty, understood as the right of any people to decide their own agri-food policies... Are we losing our ear: if we're talking about promoting eco-productions, why are we doing all this advice that has nothing to do with eco-production? I understand that this is a way of sweeping it all up, and in the end we don't know what we're voting for. But let's go over a little bit of points. Let's talk about agricultural assumptions. He's already spoken. The Government allocates approximately 1_per_cent and we would like to arrive, as in the Aragó or the Valencian Community, at '1,6 or 1,7. This determines the importance that the Government gives to agriculture. Rural development programme. At this point and in the past, I think we need to reflect on where we can work, which is the assumption. Therefore, the band that I stayed here approved, has to reflect on the presupposition. Protection and uses of agrarian soils. Okay, access to the land to guarantee the generational replete, a model of food security... with twenty-four more hours we could have approved it all, but we needed a few more hours to talk about it. Model rowing, leaving rowing: a step forward to approve some concrete, quite transcendental things. Water and regadius, has been approved at the end, or will presumably be approved a very correct political text, but a little bit of... Perhaps, with this audit that is said to be coming to an end, it would be worth informing to know what is being done and not to ask again, if it is being done. Forest management. The chief of staff... I also understand that the government must lead the struggle against the chief of staff more strongly; because when we talk about the Delta we are not only talking about agriculture, but about the natural park, the tourism linked to the natural park and the landscape, the economic activity related to the hostelry, the muscles... It is all the Delta that is in danger, not just the farmers. And the last minute, for the rural agents, I'll dedicate it to... It's obvious that twelve points is a long way past, but I'd say it's literally abandoned again, at least it's not paying attention to what this thing deserves. As a summary, it would be useful to look at Moció 35/XI, which speaks of the Cos d'Agents Rurals, which speaks of the staff, which speaks of the deployment of professional categories, that it should increase the staff– the under-inspectors, the basic agents–, of the specialized formation...; but also of the means– equipment of the vehicles, the installations, that not all are as worthy as they should be –; the dignity of the body: the visibility of the cos, the corporate image, the diffusion of their task, both externally, in front of the outside, as internally, between the same department. And then, the weapons regulations, which are hanging. The Mayan has already been approved, but I don't know if he's done anything to solve this issue yet. Now it's not up to me to debate whether short weapons or long weapons, this is already going to be debated, but the rules should be created. And last but not least, a prec to the government. I think that the government should bet on the body, that they believe in it, and that, only though you are in Agriculture, you work for Agriculture, for Territory and for the Interior and for other aspects. For such a good job, you do it with good media. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.35.0	Thank you, Mr Dominguez. [[Some applause.]] Next, has the word Ms.Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.36.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, good morning to everyone, and a very special greeting to the members of the Rural Agents Cos accompanying us. A few months ago, my companion, Anna Caula, found out that she was a lençol young woman. You've got Hortánsia, and I'm telling you with all my love, you've turned our bet on us and brought us all the way out. I know that a sector so important to our country, such as agriculture and forestry, that it has never been recognized enough, we have to ventilate in a youth like this; a movement that goes from the RDP to the poma cargo, the dumps ramaderes or the Segarra-Garrigues channel, through forest management, access to land, the agri-food sector or rural agents. All these issues are important enough to deserve an individual treatment on which we make an amp debate and will be and will not have to speak at all superficially to defend or reject a whole series of heterogeneous proposals in five minutes. And that's not it, Hortênesia, we need a strong, competitive and quality agricultural sector, with access to the best marketing channels for our products, without losing sight of the sale of proximity and the zero mileage, where we are pioneers with the seal of proximity. This, I repeat, requires a country debate, in which we analyse the great strategic lines that the sector must follow and the concrete measures that it can take to achieve the objectives that we set ourselves and in which we can, among others, define where we want to go and how we should be one of the most important product sectors we have. In any case, be thankful that you have accepted many of our ideas, that you have not negotiated many others, and above all – above all – the attitude you have shown and the wills to reach agreements. Most of the House will vote in favour, but I would like to have a brush stroke, even though it is very short, to the different aspects that include the House. We shall vote on point 2.b, which refers to the RDP. We understand that there is no need to submit any changes to it, because the priorities already meet with the premise agreed between the agricultural organizations and the department, and, in any case, it is repeated from the apartment to. And this 2016 has broken records for young people's benefits and better and agri-environmental plans. Moreover, I have never heard you complain about the reduction in the contribution that the Ministry of Agriculture makes to this programme: from the 230_millions of euros that the State has put for the period 2007-2013 to 53,3_millions of euros for the current period, 2014-2020. They left us with a quarter of what was there, and I didn't hear you protesting about it. The generality has had to substantially increase its contribution in order to try to compensate for this reduction and that the sector does not have such a strong substratum. On the subject of access to the land, we believe that the access of young people in the sector..., of all young people, with independence from the place of origin, whether from the city or from the rural world..., in any case, to help them have beautiful agricultural schools and even there is a farm school, that of Tarrega, which does specific training for young people who do not come from agricultural origin. For what it does to the rowing and waste management model – I'm very quick because I'm going to stay out of time–, the motion doesn't differ between two completely different types of rowing – the extensive and the intensive–, implanted in diverse geographical spaces and starting from different realities and models that don't have to be countered but complementary. We're wrong if we start from the base that one of the two types is good and the other pain, and it's not fair or convenient that the promotion and promotion of the extensive store is to be done to the detriment of the intensive. We need the two models so that both of them, within their respective spheres, generate occupation and rich economics in the territory where they are located, and both of them must be sustainable. For the use of watering planning, we could say they're already being done. And, for what it does at the water prices of the reg, now the price of the water use is divided into a fixed part, depending on the surface of the reg of the farms that give high to the system, and a variable part, depending on the consumption that is carried out in them. In this way, it is intended to reflect, for one band, the fixed costs that are produced throughout the water distribution system, and, for the other, who does not pay more. Moreover, the Generality is already taking over and advancing the share of the pages. And I wouldn't want to end... lastly, all the recognizance of the Agents Cos..., the essential thing that's CAR, and a record of rural agents murdered last Saturday. All the support, affection and recognition, my and my parliamentary group, the families and the company of victims. Xavier, David, may the land follow you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Castellví. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.38.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, first place, I also want to give a greeting to the members of the Rural Agents Cos who are accompanying us today. And well, before I get into the matter, then, one more time, show my condolences and that of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party to the relatives of the rural agents murdered on the 21st generation and to all the company of the body. Okay. Mrs Grau, this, as was said, is a full-bodied young woman, a minimum of nology that the same Mrs Grau had to detail because there were questions, therefore, that had already been dealt with in the assumptions. Basically most of the proposals, one way or another, so they've already been dealt with in the presuppositional framework and the different groups, so we haven't been talking about this framework, have we? Another thing is that the government complements – complements – with the commitments it has made, and that the majority, therefore, are already coming from far away. We remember the monograms of 2010 and 2014. And, look, I'm going to go into Mrs. Grau's office, and I want to thank her for finally being able to discuss it here today, after all the perpecies that have gone through, so I want to start with the end, right? , by far the point, which is the one dealing with the cos of rural agents. And in this sense, we have the petition of the Asparc, and it is the Government of the Generality who, at this very difficult moment, is standing at the side of the body and agreeing to strengthen it with an increase in its staffing proportional to the exponential increase in the number of posts it has assumed in recent years, such as the attendance at 112, with the deployment of the professional categories that it has pending since 2017 and with the commitment to equip it with the training and the means that are needed to exercise the surveillance and control tasks with greater security. I think that's all there is to it. Well, back to the beginning of the motion, at the first point, which deals with assumptions, is a statement of intentions that most groups have already manifested on various occasions, and it is this desire that this department increase its resources to face a series of shortcomings that directly affect Catalan pages. And in this block I want to highlight something important for your day-to-day activity that doesn't cost a single euro and that is the fact that all media is put in place to improve administrative simplification and manage aid better. Precisely, one of the usual complaints in this sector is this lack of speed on the part of the Administration at the time of processing shippers, awarding grants, etc. Only by correcting this would we do our farmers and farmers a huge favor. As for the RDP, we also told the councillor, as an elevator in the sector, that these assumptions do not fit the real needs, and therefore need to be changed. Mrs Grau, I have also asked you to quarantine the government during this first semester of the Agrarian Space Bill, and before that doubt, and until we are clear, we will abstain in point 4, on access to the earth. We matter the whole apart from safety and food sovereignty. I share that which exposes the motion with the incorporated documents of the different groups, but, if it allows me, I think we have a state mechanism, the Law of measures for the better of the food chain, which allows for the first time... – I want to emphasize that it has no precedents to the European Union – therefore, which allows the installation of approved contracts, is to say that, between the parts, between the one who comes and the one who buys, freely agree conditions for what makes the price, the terms and the way of payment. This agreement between producers and buyers is an obligation for both parties, which must be completed. In short, one of the main objectives of this legislation is to prohibit the sale of products in supermarkets under the production price. For example, all white brands, therefore, cannot be sold under the cost price. I think it's an important advance on this issue, don't you? And, therefore, this law that we already have to exploit, therefore, through complaints and everything you need for the benefit of producers. Another important question: he managed it from the Ramadere dumps. I take advantage of it to reiterate, don't I? to reiterate our disagreement with the sanctions that the Council has planned to apply to the Ramaders. And I also transferred it to the councilwoman in the debate of assumptions: applying sanctions and taxes we think is a way to hold the owners of ramadere exploits accountable, that they have been waiting for a solution to a problem that every time is more complicated. We have been waiting for a regulation from now on that I have ordered this question and, as will be approved in this case, and assuming it is complete, we may not have it until July. Okay to most proposals on the efficient use of water and irrigation planning, also to the promotion of forest management and to the eradication plans of the cargo ship, and to the proposals that make reference to the protection of animal welfare, we will give support in the majority and we will abstain in the later point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.39.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.40.0	All right, thank you, President. All the groups have already said this, it is a very long young man, it is the small farming man; it has eleven apart and forty-six points, finally, as it has remained, and it is practically the same in terms of points to the original, and therefore it deals with a wide range of aspects related to the rural world. And we will find issues, therefore, presuppositions of the department, the Rural Development Program, protection and uses of agricultural land, access to land, changes of agricultural model, food sovereignty, ramader model, efficient use of water and irrigation, forest management and valuation of forest products, caragol apple, protection and animal welfare, and rural agents, at last. I take this opportunity to show our best record for the two rural agents murdered this past week and also to give a lot of years and a lot of strength and a strong embrace to family and company, some of whom are here today. As CUP we share the immense totality of the points that are presented, for their content, and we will vote in favour of almost all of them, as well as a series of considerations. Most of the points refer to pal·liatius aspects of the model that patim, an agro-industrial model that is socially precarious, environmentally polluting and entrepreneurially concentrated, and, in the background, if we don't change this model, we always go putting pieces, and a little printing it, so it's that this young man is going to put these pieces, perhaps as the first measure of content or complementing other questions that I will also mention. Because many of these points have already been approved in different parliamentary spaces. Without going any further, like CUP - Crida Constituent, the first motion that we presented in this legislature already makes reference to some aspects that refers to the motion, concretely the case of the Segarra-Garrigues, that we asked for a review, that it was approved, and from this review we do not know, or at least we have not said anything today, and will do almost one year, because it is a motion approved on February 17, 2016. In another second motion that we tabled on May 5th we also referred to the Land Use Law Project, which I will specifically refer to at the end of my intervention. The Ciutadans Group also presented a monographic motion on the Rural Agents' Cos, which was positively discussed by many groups, among others for ours, which were accepted many reviews and which was approved by a very large majority in many of those points. It's a young man who was debated and approved, I mean, almost unanimously on May 18th of last year. Similarly, as at CUP we have presented many of these points to the Bill of Presumptives and the Bill of Measures, concretely the creation of a land bank, which has been partially accepted by the Government for the time being; content and reversal of detail to the vulnerable sectors of agriculture and the ecological and mountain areas, which has not been accepted and which, in part, is all causing, therefore, this page mark which we will have, which we already have from the day of today and which ends this disbandment; expenditure control and audit of the Garrigues Segarra, which has been accepted a theme which we have made to the partially presupposed; imposes on the emissions of the intensive shoots, which is accepted by the State of the present. Similarly, many of these points have also been dealt with by the Committee on Agriculture, in particular those relating to the content and reversal of the detail to the vulnerable sectors of rural and ecological agriculture and mountain areas. And we have voted many resolutions in this sense to the Committee on Agriculture. Despite that feeling, isn't it? , of frustration, even waste of time that we often have while we go here approving a lot of things and then we see that they are not applying or that they are not fully applying on the part of the government, despite all this, we will give support, I say, to most points. Mos abstain – President, if you wish to vote separately – at point 3 and at 6a and at 10.c. The 6th and 10th are referring to asking for things in Madrid, and you yourself have already recognized that this will not have practical effects – we have long since stopped asking for things in Madrid – and point 3, that I will briefly comment on what is relevant to the question related to the Law of land use alone. It's a law that year 83... the Law of Territorial Policy already said it was to be done, this plan of land interests. It was derived from the General Territorial Pla of Catalonia in the year 95. This general territorial plan was derived from the fact that it was done through a sectoral plan, and from all the sectoral plans that gave that general territorial plan of Catalonia that had to be done, the only one that did not follow this, the only one. Thirty-four years later, we can claim the most absolute lack of respect on the part of all governments with respect to the primary sector in the absence of this plan. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , and that affects a lot of people in this parliamentary arc. And just to point out that we presented a motion, we accepted a joint motion for the Yes that said that this plan was to be carried before six months – we accepted..., we gave three and we accepted six. This deadline for bringing this bill here to Parliament ended on November 5th; therefore, three months ago we were waiting for this bill with a statement from the same group that supports the government. And that's why we're abstaining at this point, to demonstrate this criticism and this, say, lack of consideration for things that we're repeatedly approving here and that we're going to approve again today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.41.0	Mr. Saladié, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.42.0	...and there's no way the government would just push them. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.43.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Then you have the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau" to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.44.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... very quickly, in two minutes... to the lady, to Congresswoman Carmina Castellví. You see, we are complaining about the contribution of the PDR, and we are not just complaining, we are presenting parliamentary initiatives to Congress, which now its representatives in Madrid have the opportunity to vote, to review, eh? , with the United We can. There's another question. You say: "Compare the two models of rowing, and here come the differences of pattern when the two are good. No, look, there's one question, there's one evidence: the intensive rowing model has caused a problem of contamination of vulnerable areas, aquifers, etc. And the extensive rowing model has a few other ties. Another thing, and here come the ideological differences that exist in this room, legitimate, is that you defended a model, we believe that you could change the model, on the line of which the company Sergi Saladié gave. Therefore, they cannot be equated. One, one branch, favors the common good, the other does not; the other, the benefits are left behind private and outsources environmental costs. So, it can't be the same, the model. For what he does to the company Óscar. You see, I don't have a vision, I don't have green happy flowers, it's not true. [[Rialles.]] I look at – and look at – concrete measures. We're talking about direct sales, we're talking about putting the workers as there are in other areas of Italy, we're talking about not being able to sell under the cost price. Therefore, there are concrete measures that may be pal·liative, the Sergi is right, but I trust that they can improve the model and that we must all combine because they improve the model. And by the end, there's a question. I think it's true, we've approved it many times, we've voted it many times, but not to insist... I think we have to go through with it, we have to keep insisting because that's why we're here; we're here to move on and get things done. Perhaps with today's motion, which has the opposite of going complete, plus the mobilizations of the page march, today the 26th, that have come out of Pirinaeus, of Ponent, of the Lands of the Ebro, that we will find all the dissipation in Barcelona, so, perhaps between everything we can go just a little bit to complete all these points that, well, they will have to change the model, but, Mr Saladié, his model and ours, that it is very seeming, we need to be hegemonic to change it. So, for the moment, with no sound, palliative cures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.45.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Ordeig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.46.0	To ask, president, separate vote of point 1.d, point 4, point 6, apart b, c, d e, point 10...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.47.0	Please, see... did you tell me 1.d?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.48.0	1.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.49.0	Again, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.50.0	Yeah, point four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.51.0	Point 1.4?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.52.0	No, point 4– 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.53.0	The 4th all the way?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.54.0	Yeah, yeah. Point six...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.55.0	Yeah, this one's already in. Point six, all right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.56.0	No, no, I'm sorry; from the 6th, the b, c, d e apart. And point 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.57.0	Still honest, point 10?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.58.0	Yes – yes, yes. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.59.0	Mrs. Castellví, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.60.0	Separate vote too, yes, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.61.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.62.0	Point 2.b– 2.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.63.0	Yeah, the 2.b, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.64.0	7.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.65.0	7.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.66.0	7.e., 7.f. and 10.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.67.0	Mr. Fernández... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Fernández, did you ask for the word? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, let's go over the points that have been asked for in a separate vote, because like there are so many... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.68.0	Yes; also to ask for separate vote from paragraphs 5a, 7d and 7.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.69.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.70.0	All right, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.71.0	See, a separate vote has been asked... I'm going to say the points; please, we're paying attention because there's a lot of them. Point 1.d, point 2.b, point 3 all sentient, point 4 all sentient, point 5a, point 6.a, point 6.c, point 6.d, point 6.e, point 10.c and point 10; point 7.d, point 7.e and point 7.f. Any more? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 10.c., yes, and on the 10th, the separate vote was called... Therefore, we will vote on 10.c. and then on 10. Is that all right? [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] No, I'm sorry. Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.72.0	We didn't hear if he also said the 6.b, that he should also be separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.73.0	6.a, 6.b – now yes –, 6.c, 6.d and 6.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.74.0	Okay. Yeah. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.75.0	Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote first place the point... [[Pause.]] One moment, that we have... yeah, yeah, now. It's here. Let's go vote point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point was approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.b. The vote begins. The 2.b_point was approved by 72 votes in favour, 60 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 106 votes in favour, against and 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been approved by 107 votes to 25, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 6th. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been approved by 122 votes to 10. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. Point 6.b_has been approved by 116 votes in favour, against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.c. The vote begins. Point 6.c was approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.d. The vote begins. Point 6.d_was approved by 115 votes in favour, against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. Point 6.e_has been approved by 117 votes in favour, against and 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 7.d. The vote begins. The 7.d_point was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 85 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 7. The vote begins. Point 7.e was rejected by 36 votes to 72, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 7.f. The vote begins. Point 7.f was approved by 72 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on 10.c. The vote begins. Point 10.c was rejected by 37 votes to 59, with 36 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 10, all the same. The vote begins. Point 10 has been approved by 117 votes to 15 with abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Agricultural, Ramadere and Forest Policies was approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain]] [[302-00097/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Ferran Pedret has the word. [[Pause.]] Mr. Pedret, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.76.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., also a greeting to the people who accompany us from the public or who may be watching this debate from home. The Socialist Parliamentary Group questioned the Councillor in the final plenary around the relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain, some relations that, as in every country of complex composition, like ours, always have some tibantors, some frictions. Competition issues are also conflicting issues in other composite, complex countries, such as, for example, federal countries; but there are many examples: the constitutional courts of various countries are very often dealing with these issues. And it is also true that many of the questions that we still have about the table are about to resolve with a dialogue between the Government of Spain and the Government of Catalonia have not come from yesterday, nor have they come from this stage of Catalan politics, some of which have been going on for quite some time. But I think we can agree that the political confrontation..., and I say it without trying to carry more paints in the word than the own etymology, but the political confrontation in which the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain are found at the present time produces more in the conflictivity between the two institutions. And there is also, perhaps more regrettable, a blocking of relations in aspects of ordinary functioning between the two administrations and also in questions that are of political relevance for the Catalans and Catalans, and some of them, for their own characteristic, also for the Spanish citizens. Look, we, in the motion that we present, follow the inquiry and the dialog that we had with the counselor in his day, try to propose various questions. Go so far that we are not complaining with this young man that no one abandons his political stances of maximum respect for the relationship he wants from Catalonia with the rest of Spain. We are talking, if we want to hear this from the partisan forces of Catalonia's independence, of the meantime, we are talking about the things that would be urgent to resolve past what happened in an immediate future or to finish in Catalonia or in relation to Catalonia's relationship with the rest of Spain. We're talking about reactivating all the bilateral mechanisms between Catalonia and the Government of Spain, because some of them haven't met since 2011. And it is true that both the Government of Catalonia and the Government of Spain have periodically renewed the designations of persons who must be in charge of these mixed commissions, commissions of transfers..., the list is saved because it is already in the same place and because I have a little time. We have been renewing them, but the fact is that we have not made the effort to put on the table the concrete themes for the concrete calls and also, of course, this already says so, it is very likely that, on the other hand, there was not the political will to address these issues as important as the issues they raise, because the Government is not aware of the need to deal with these bilateral commissions, in these mixed commissions, for example, of transfers, or of economic and fiscal matters, or of infrastructure. You're extraordinarily uplifting. In all they are treated as having an impact, an influence [[Funnel veils]] about people's daily lives. Yes, Madam President, I am told that time has frozen. I understand that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.77.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.78.0	...sometimes they'll let me know if I'm...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.79.0	Excuse me, Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.80.0	...ending.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.81.0	We have technical problems and it doesn't work here. I'm...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.82.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.83.0	...counting myself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.84.0	They think that time has this elastic virtue: when one is using it, it seems to widen to..., huh? They'll let me know. All right. So, I said to them, they're all fearing transcendence. We also ask the Government of the Generality that legal viability is proposed, that we believe it would be feasible, but we want it to be studied well, to present enforcement incidents respect each of the judgments given by the Constitutional Court in favour of the interests of the Generality of Catalonia in competition disputes or in constitutional remedies. And then we also ask you to lay down all the possible actions that are provided for in the report that the Government of the Generality commissioned the year 2010 to try to reverse the effects of Judgment 31/2010, on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, and that could be addressed. In fact, in his day they began to approach with a political dialogue with the Spanish Government, then there was a change of sign from the Spanish Government, and it seems that it was not possible. We also ask that this be the attitude of the Government of Spain, what happens is that it is another chamber in which we do it and for so long today it is up to us to commit our Government to this. It's extraordinarily necessary. And it's not by any means a waiver or a weakness on the part of those who defend other policy options that Catalan socialism goes into trying to unlock all of this, because while the problems of Catalans and Catalans are piled up as shippers on the table of someone and they go out to all and every one of these shippers, because they affect a lot of people, a lot of businesses...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.85.0	Now, Mr. Pedret, time is running out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.86.0	... – thank you, President, for the indication – and, therefore, the only thing we are doing is asking that we put thread to the needle in all this. We would understand that it would be very strange for the political formations of this chamber to not be able to agree at least on this, that we understand that it is of the least. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.87.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next you have the word to defend the papers presented by Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.88.0	Thank you, President. Our parliamentary group will vote in favour of each of the points of this proposal which brings us to the chamber of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. And what I want to do with my intervention is explain why, why we are going to vote in favour, which is more than what you say exactly in this motion. Mirin, our political strength is very much on this subject with two great ideas of political science; it is the one that inspires the thought of the plurality of which we are, a diverse group, with various formations. The first of these ideas is the republican federalism of Pi and Margall, which he wrote in one of his most well-known writings, which is "Reaction and Revolution," in mid-nineteenth century that among sovereigns there can only be pacts. Obviously, Pi and Margall thought of a pact between the equals, between equal peoples who only accept the subordinations that remain covenants and that always maintain sovereignty to rethink, reformulate or exhaust the constitutional contract. We would obviously have liked the Socialist Parliamentary Group to have accepted the totality of our task, that its second part speaks of the right to decide on the people of Catalonia, an idea that today – we are not convinced – is underwriting Pi and Margall, and that classical federalism, which is a dubious one, is a dream in its soul. Therefore, we are pymargalist federalists in the most classic sense of the term. And, therefore, we are convinced that the federated entities are sovereign to decide freely. Another idea that our parliamentary group also inspires is the Marxist conception of the State, which Marx and Marxist thinkers defended and continue to defend today, which says that the State is the primary expression of the interests of the ruling class. And when we think of the Spanish State or the Catalan State we think of these terms and, therefore, we cannot separate the class interests that dominate a state from its conception. When we think of Spain we think of those terms, and when we think of Catalonia, too. And we are convinced that the idea that other people are condemned to live under the boot of the reaction is a reactionary idea. We defend our people and we defend that what we want for our people is possible to get it also other people see that they are not better or worse than our people. So what is clear is that when we think about the Spanish State we think about these ideas, and when we think about the European project, too. And I underline this: the European project must also be considered under the same criteria, when we also define what we want and what we want for the Spanish State. Therefore, in our political thinking there is the pact, with the classic federal idea; sovereignty, which is also deeply in federalism, and the interests of the social majority, which is an idea of emancipation. And the three things we think it's possible to combine them. Obviously, the Socialist Parliamentary Group and company Pedret have accepted a part of one of our discussions, which talks about a concrete aspect of Catalan policy, its judicial process, and which inspires point 18, which is finally presented in the text. And, therefore, we appreciate it being collected, because we think it's something to report. I'm done. It has been said before: in the current situation, but even though the people of Catalonia decide that they want to be independent, we will always have to manage a transition, and we will always want a good life with the people of Catalonia. Therefore, we build dialects, build bridges, build pacts, serve every wreath we have to build a dialog with the Spanish government. We know it's very difficult, because it governs the PP, but we think that one day in Spain the government will change and that in Catalonia this will happen, and it will be good for Catalonia and it will be good for Spain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.90.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, this motion in theory should not be necessary to present the, and I say it with all respect to the work that Congressman Pedret has done, but I say that it would not be necessary to present the because asking politicians to dialogue is like asking people to breathe. In politics, dialogue is an inseparable part of politics, and should not be required; it should therefore be an entirely normal and normal activity. That is how we understand some of us who are dedicated to that very thing, to dialogue constantly. The dialogue, like the movement, which is shown to be moving, therefore, the dialogue is demonstrated by dialogue and by reaching agreements. We have done so since the first day, by dialogue with one another and with the other, by dialogue with the Socialist Party and the People's Party. There are some who still criticize them, these dialogues; they will not know that at this new political stage dialogue is fundamental. Those who still criticize that we are able to reach agreements on both sides are because they do not know that at this new political stage the important thing is to reach agreements. That is typical of the old parties, which have lived in a state of permanent absolute majority and have not had to dialogue with anyone, absolutely no one. But I think we can make the mistake – and since this issue has emerged as a result of Mr Pedret's motion – that dialogue ends up being one of those terms that politicians use when they do not want to say anything and that it is empty of content. That is why we believe that dialogue is very good; but we need to be concrete. Beyond the photos and the summits, it is important to make the dialogue concrete, to make the agreements concrete, to make the pact concrete. We must make documents, we must make provisions, we must make demands, and we must put them on paper and sign them. We believe that this is a fundamental task when it comes to talking about dialogue. Perhaps it would have been more useful than this motion, although I acknowledge the work you have done, than perhaps you would have done when you abstained with Mr. Mariano Rajoy, so you would have put conditions on the table and not a check a target, and you would have put precisely the dialogue as a condition. We put it, in these one hundred and fifty demands, that the dialogue with the Government of Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, should begin as soon as possible. And that's in those hundred and fifty demands and not in a blank check. In any case, we thank you for the amendment you accepted on the Conference of Presidents. We believe that it is a necessity to clarify precisely what we said in those agreements, and this can be one of those concretions, because in the end what has been accepted has been an amendment of addition for the President of the Generalitat to fulfil his obligations and go to that Conference of Presidents. Because in that Conference of Autonomous Presidents the chair is not of Mr Puigdemont, the chair is of all Catalans, and that is why we believe and accept and we think..., and we thank Mr Pedret for having accepted that amendment which obliges all autonomous presidents to go to that conference; to go to that conference to talk about the real problems that all Catalans and all the citizens of Spain have, because in the end that chair does not belong to Mr Puigdemont, and it is his obligation to go to that conference, because, among other things, they pay him the salary to work, not only to take pictures and to go to summits paid by everyone. In any case, since Puigdemont does not go to that conference, and he has not gone, and it seems that he will not return any more, if it is that he finally becomes president of the Generalitat, we will indeed go to explain to the Government of Spain what our reforms are. And that dialogue exercise that Deputy Pedret pointed out we are going to exercise, and we are going to exercise it directly as leaders of the opposition in Catalonia, in a meeting with the Vice President of the Government of Spain where we will talk about our proposals, about the proposals that we believe are important for all Catalans. Nor can it be that the only vision that the Spanish Government has is that of Mr Junqueras; we believe that it is positive that it also has the vision of the main opposition party, which today represents many Catalans. And, on specific contents of the motion, we are concerned and surprised also that the Socialist Party buys the discourse of the judicialization of politics. We believe that those who judicialize politics are precisely those who skip the laws, those who judicialize politics are precisely all those who believe they have a patent of course because they are politicians and can do whatever they want. We believe that we are all equal before the law; of course, politicians too, would miss more. Just as there is a self-employed person who, when he does not pay his bills, then has a fine, or when any of us do not comply with our obligations, it would be missing more than politicians would think that they can be above the laws that force us all, fortunately, into a democracy. Then there are other issues on which we do not agree, such as the issue of GDP-based investments. We believe that it is a criterion, therefore, that it is very unprogressive, very unequal, precisely. Because that would be like saying that you have to invest more in those neighborhoods that are richer and you have to invest less in those neighborhoods that are not. It seems to us to be a criterion..., and that is why we are submitting an amendment in this regard, to clarify it, because the Constitutional Court's own judgment points out that it has to be an orientation criterion, and not so much a criterion..., the only criterion to determine what, but it has not been accepted. In any case, I congratulate the honourable Member on the work he has done with us in trying to reach agreements. So thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.91.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.92.0	Thank you very much, President. The Party of the Socialists of Catalonia presents an exhaustive motion, very extensive – in many points –, perhaps even too much; it has to recognize some courage, and even a little bit of fear, because they have dared to put the main curse and problem in the speech they have had in the past decade, which is the theme that addresses this young man, is the theme. « When did Peru get upset? That's a question, Vargas Llosa. In reality, it does not cause the word to be used; in fact, it does not cause another start by jeopardizing that it is irreproducible in its parliament. This same question is could apply to the PSC: when did the PSC get upset? , that fifty-six-year-old PSC that was able to win autonomous elections with votes in Catalonia and govern almost all Catalan populations of more than 25,000 inhabitants. So, the day you were forced to position yourself unambiguously on the issue that we are dealing with today, on the thing. Until that moment they were happy, they were all flowers and violets; but, of course, at the moment when they were forced to position themselves clearly on the subject, contradictions and, above all, the historical error of contemporary Catalan socialism emerged: accepting the notion, the Romanesque concept of ‘born, associated with language, tradition, culture, is to say, identity, not citizenship, as had historically done the left. Clearly, when you make that mistake, with a little bit of reason the genuine nationalists, those who are, say to them, "Hey, if you say we're a born, we're a favorable political subject and therefore we can decide on the margin of Spain." And, of course, at that time: "Ah, I didn't want to..., this was an allegory, a half-hour, a reflection..., they were forced to position themselves. That the PSC embraces the nationalist concept of the born, traditionalist, does not cease to be extraordinarily surprising. They abandoned the tradition of civic socialism, which, for example, represented Francisco Tomás and Valiente in Spain, in order to defend a concept of Carlist, traditionalist and, yes, joseantoniidentari. They are the contradictions of politics; it is as when the CUP defends identity protectionism as Donald Trump does. So, you had them exactly the same way. That error had a particularly cruel formation in an independenceist demonstration that encapsulated José Montilla, who with a poker face had to hold that the insult gave him « charnego i« botifler. Well, this young man looks like he's starting to correct a little bit of the rudder in the most substantial part of this, and that's why we're picking up the vast majority of points. There are others who don't, who don't seem to learn the lesson. As we are positive and very dialogueable, so I will start with the positive and in which we agree. We shall vote in favour of the first four. We understand that the legal, statutory, relationship mechanisms of the Spanish-Catalunian government need to be strengthened, and we fully agree. Certainly, it was the Government of Catalonia, on July 2012, which decided to interrupt those meetings, already with the People's Party to the Government of Spain. We will also vote on points 10 and 11. Admittedly, we would like them to claim that the execution incident in front of the Constitutional Court was a crime, because in Madrid they are saying that they would repeal this law, which, as you can prove, has all the advantages, and they will not have to have for those who intend to fail the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. Certainly, this late they also have the opportunity to exercise their vote responsibly when it comes to the motion of the Institute of Autonomous Studies. We shall vote on points 13, 14, 15 and 17. Totally agreed to bring its institutions from the Government of Spain to Catalonia; totally in agreement with the measures of diffusion of the català. But – and here is the negative part – we cannot vote in favour, we will vote against points 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 and 18. It is the same mistake that has always been made by the Socialist Party: to generate expectations that cannot be completed later. José Luís Rodríguez Zapatero has already passed it. It is this claim that, with cough, you keep going beyond what you can actually do in Catalonia, because there are fears that they will affect the conjunct of Spaniards and that only the conjunct of Spaniards can collectively decide how we did the year 1978. And that won't change. And if you persist in this error you will continue with the same single that you have had later. The Party of Socialists of Catalonia, and I finish now, will continue to feel a fundamental piece, and I say to the whole franchise, in the need to build a political alternation to non-nationalist Catalonia. There are only two autonomous communities in Spain that have not had any political alternation: Andalusia, which has not had any party or ideology, and Catalonia, where nationalism has always ruled, with different formulas, but always nationalism. And there's a possibility... he went to the Basque Country, he was therapeutic, he was a healer, and all the GNP was told he wasn't on a good path. In Catalonia, we need a political alternation of this natural, but we need a PSC that assembles more to the first part of the points that I have exposed and not to this of reproducing the errors that have made them pass from 56 escons and win the elections, to the situation that they currently have. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.94.0	Well, thank you, President. And thank you to the Socialist Party for presenting this motion that, in a sense of doubt, is enlightening, timely, timely, up at the most appropriate time possible. And also..., go for it that, as it is obvious, we reject it. Very schematically, I'm not... I'm not just gonna stick to that argument. That's the good cop's proposal, huh? – it is the proposal of the good cop – but that, also, it is police and, therefore, ultimately, it does nothing but, with other methods, defend the status quo. So, said that, summarizing our position, I'm going to argue it in a little more detail, huh? We, at least my group, our group, are no longer in the logical sea of the reform of the State, which we consider, in short and medium terms, non-reformable, of undemocratic nature. A Spanish state that is a well-traveled conglomerate of oligarchy and elite officials, business, banking, ecclesiastical, media, police, military and extractive policies, of a phalangist background, that resists to lose their past colonies. This is the reality of the Spanish State, whether they like it or not – this is the reality of the Spanish State – its historical and natural genes. That is to say, after the economic, social and political crisis, which we have been through the past few years, certainly, there appeared to be talk of a state crisis, a rule crisis and the possibility of a process constituting the Spanish State. Tanmateix, head of reformist forces, as reformist as regenerativeists, has now sunk hegemony in the Spanish State. With Ciutadans, who was one of them, our projects are, of course, antagonistic. With us, we have remarkable synchronies in many aspects, among them, that of a democratic reference of self-determination, such as the escocès, which is the result of a democratic pact with the state. But this way is impossible, we talked about it yesterday: this way is absolutely impossible. And that's why today, the company and company of the commons, what we ask of them is that, out of solidarity, they are at our side in unilaterality, that today is the only possible way to exercise self-determination. I must tell you, sincerely, that we are concerned and concerned that, before and in relation to this young man, you are, not only physically but politically, at this side of the hemisphere; sincerely, it is disturbing his position in this sense. Today, Mrs. Ada Colau said that "she agrees with a reference, but that she has to have some type of state recognition." Here Mrs. Colau cheats, because she knows perfectly well that this recognition of a reference, in the mark of the Spanish State, is absolutely impossible. Once she says to us, "Listen, have confidence that when we govern, that when I am in the Spanish State, then we can give recognition to this type of reference. So, look, we don't have a way of trusting that this is possible, because we don't have a way of hoping, at these times, when, in the Spanish legal political framework, in the Spanish state framework, the right to self-determination is possible, neither now nor ever. Therefore, we understand that with these arguments we cheat. As now with the transaction that seems to have been granted on the part of some policies, in which it says that the Catalan people have the right to exercise, to decide democratically, among the existing institutional framework, their options for the future. Listen to me, in the Spanish legal political framework, we don't have the possibility to exist as a nation. Therefore, there is no possibility of exercising any right to decide, substantial. From our point of view, therefore, the time has come for democratic unilaterality, self-determination and independence. And, from the new republic, establishing the new relations of solidarity and cooperation with the other peoples and nations of the Spanish State, for which the State today is not a good mediator, but on the contrary, it is a predatory obstacle. And, in this new republic, you go ahead with our priority: to build a new framework of cooperation and solidarity relations, at the Euro-Mediterranean level, from the Catalan countries. So, we... - I went ahead and made myself clear, huh? – we have full solidarity, full affinity and full support for Spanish Republicanism, with which we have always shown our absolute sympathy and friendship and with its democratic objectives. But, look, our best contribution... – not in doubt – our best contribution and solidarity with Spanish Republicanism is to make us, already, the first step and proclaim, already, our republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, has the word Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.96.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Counselor, Honourable Counselor, Members of Parliament... Mr Pedret, I said, 'I'll tell you from the start, and you know it, because yesterday I went ahead, that we would not vote in favour of your young lady, that we would oppose her. And to defend this vote against, I refer to the last words of Councillor Romeva, in the question that motivated this motion that we are debating today. He said: "We do not have the problem simply because there is no good understanding between the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State, we have the problem because there is a structural problem. And, either we face the structural problem or this conversation that we have today – a few days ago – that is the same thing that we could have had years ago, from now on, we will not have deepened it a little bit. This is the fundamental difference of vision between you and us: we have radically different visions of when we are. Indeed, Mr Pedret, we live in two different mons. You, in a world, I won't say yuppie, but in a virtual federalist world, you have the conviction that everything will work out with the reform of the Constitution and the conversion of the Spanish State into a federal state. And I respect them. And you defend this with vehemence, as never, I repeat, they never tried hard in the long years of socialist government in Spain, implementing it, in the Spanish State, and it will not be that they did not have the opportunity to put it into practice in the long years of socialist government in Spain: neither with Felipe González – fourteen years – nor with Rodriguez Zapatero – seven years. And, therefore, you oppose any initiative that you disagree with the federalist mantra. Even so, when this initiative has the support of 80 percent of the citizens of Catalonia and is nothing but a reference for deciding the future of our country. And the proof of what I'm saying to you today, with the message presented for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, who introduced us this morning to this young man, we were talking about the harmful effects of the judicialization of politics as an interbank of the dialect, and we were also talking about the people of Catalonia having right to decide, democratically, within the existing institutional framework, their options for the future. You accept the first part, reject the second part. They don't want to feel it or talk about it. We live in a world, in a Catalonia tired of waiting for a fair deal, from all points of view, on the part of the Spanish State, a Catalonia tired of seeing how, day after day, she'mister, she 'criticizes, 'nsmenysprea, 'nsboicoteta, 'nstrocta, 'nstrocta, on the part of a state that has already ceased to be ours and that today has no offer for Catalonia. We are tired of trying, once and for all, to set up a dialogue with the Government of the State in which we can talk about everything, also of what you propose, also of the list of forty-six pending fears, of forty-six, not only of forty-five, because we tire of it and answer that we can talk about everything, less of the reference. But don't worry, we have a lot of strength, we have a lot of energy and we'll keep trying, at least, until the same night before the 2017 referendum. You complain, you insist and you see things, some, if I may, stagger, like the Senate's move to Barcelona. They don't say, but they mean it. Do they think they would solve the Catalan problem with the Senate in Barcelona or Tarragona or the Case d'Alcanar? They make petitions..., they make other petitions, that are no more than repeated incompliments of the obligations of the State to Catalonia and that, given the precedents, are impossible to compliment, as a plan of investments in infrastructures and its compliment in five years. Five years from now, we'll do it ourselves, the infrastructure plans, I assure you. Or some of them... who make their faces look ashamed, like asking the Cervantes Institute to promote and difuse Catalan language and culture. But isn't his obligation now? I am very curious, point 6, in which I ask to make use of the way provided for in Article 150.2 of the Spanish Constitution to regain the maximum potential of the 2006 Statute. The one to whom his company Alfonso Guerra passed the ribo without pity and with manifest pride. So easy it would be to serve this article of the Constitution and to delegate to us the power to call a reference! In short, you take us to a loop that is repeated eternally and that, therefore, does not go wrong. Why do you think that, you know PP, PSOE, Ciutadans taranna, it is possible to produce an absolutely radical change in the policies of the Spanish State? I don't believe it, but if you, gentlemen of the PSC, believe it, be brave and present, by and large, all these proposals, to the Congress of Deputies, where there is a majority alternative to PP and Ciutadans, led by its big party: the PSOE. Mr. Pedret, my respect is already tea, but if you can... if you can, you'd have my admiration. I encourage them to do so, and I also encourage them to leave the autonomous trench and join the most beautiful peaceful revolution of all: that of democracy, that of the ballot box, which will lead us to the freedom of our people. They're in time, they're not staying with those they have for democracy. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Sendra. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.98.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, Counselor, Members, Members..., the message of Catalonia Yes, it is, Mr Nuet has already commented, we have assumed it in part, because the second part we have had occasion, quite enough, to discuss it, to vote for it, and surely we will do it and we have no intention of addressing it, with a specific motion on these questions. From the PP, it was also commented, there was a small deal and we did not take on some of the issues that changed the contents, which clearly did not plead with Mr. Fernández. And with Ciutadans, therefore, it has not been possible to reach a compromise, we have not taken its views, except that it finds that, in fact, going to the Conference of Presidents, on the part of the President of the Generality of Catalonia, seems reasonable and that should be done. Well..., says the Deputy of Junts for the Yes that..., if we thought that, with the transfer of the Senate to Barcelona or to the Houses d'Alcanar, it would solve the problem of Catalonia. Of course not, you do not intend to ridicule the arguments of your opponents in this way because it insults our intelligence and that of the camera joint. It is surprising that, from a nationalist formation such as his, from the coalition in which he is, there are people who claim that he is not a nationalist, in this way there is a lack of understanding of gesture politics and symbolism, and after so many years of process, so many symbols and gestures. But in any case, what we are asking is that the governments of Catalonia and Spain do what they can and don't do, we ask the two of them, what they can and don't do; with independence from the political project that they each have, what we have put them on the table doesn't affect the maximum objectives, the political objectives that can take every political formation according to their world view. And we've seen it before: here everyone running away from study, making – perhaps even holding elections – electionism barroer. And, on behalf of Mr. Fernández, who told us that we had committed some fear..., let'mdir-li, Mr. Fernández, that if any fear has been said here today is to call the PSC joseantonian. He told my fellow Moratalla, ex-PUM militia, who was at the concentration camp in France, that we were joshentonians. No, no, Mr. Fernández; you must be happy and satisfied with your supposed bite.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.100.0	Yes; to ask for separate votes from points 5, 16, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12 and 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.101.0	I'm sorry, 5, 6, 7...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.102.0	7, 8, 9, 12, 18 and 16.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.103.0	5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 12, 16 and 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.104.0	Exactly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.105.0	Okay. [[Fernando de Páramo Gómez asks to speak.]] Mr. De Paramo?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.106.0	To demand the vote of the... I think some of them are repeated, which Companion Fernández said, but it's the 5, the 6, the 8, the 9, the 10 and the 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.107.0	The 10th was missing, huh? ; the only one missing was the 10th. That is to say, a separate vote has been requested from points 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 12, 16 and 18. Okay? [[Pause.]] Could these points be voted all together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] So let's get started. Let's start the vote, then. The vote begins. Let's go vote point number five. Point 5_has been rejected by 26 votes to 70, with 36 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 27 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 26 votes to 82, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 26 votes to 82, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 36 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 16. The vote begins. Point 16_has been rejected by 51 votes to 71, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 18. The vote begins. Point 18_has been rejected by 26 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on relations between the governments of Catalonia and Spain was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the competitiveness of the Catalan company]] [[302-00098/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the competitiveness of Catalan businesses presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Joan García. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. García, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.108.0	All right. Yes, thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, business entities that you are accompanying us today, and business organisations – thanks for coming and listening to us today – we spoke in the question that gives no to the motion that we present from how the Government of the Generality has secreted the usual political debate and has secreted what we consider usual in the street. Perhaps he did not just like the current Government of the Generality that we accused him of not listening to the citizens of Catalonia, but it is that one does an exercise to follow a report of the Government, and the great fictions, the great epic moments are never found at the cost of what the Catalans say to their own CEO's own questions that they really care about. Pims and micro-entrepreneurs, such as entrepreneurs, in general, and autonomies, are part of this oblique reality or that at least does not form part of the priorities of the Government of the Generality. The opposition is to tax decisions but also to bring to this Parliament those fears that a more concerned government to fill Brussels rooms is not able to do so, which also demonstrates with the legislative balance it carries, which we believe is poor enough. We have done so, and we must be pleased, in fact, that a good part of the opposition groups have understood, so, this proposal that we are carrying. The competitiveness of the company is an essential factor in precisely fighting against the dark; in order to increase competitiveness we need to increase productivity, and in order to do so we need to increase the factors, many of them transversal, that build it. These factors are still more important when we talk about a Catalan business structure consisting of a 99_per_cent per micro, small and medium-sized enterprises; measures that are vital when we talk about entrepreneurship but also when we grow and consolidate business projects. Data from these years have been painful, since 2008 thirty-thousand enterprises have been lost, many of them, mostly small, medium, and, in fact, one_of_each_three enterprises have been small that have disappeared since that year. Today we also have worrying data; the counselor may not agree, but they are, and they are as small as they can generate alarms. In this debate, I think it's important that we put it on the table. We used to see a very important economic medium a few days ago, so he was talking about this negative balance of entrepreneurs coming from Catalonia to other autonomous communities and what they are coming from, which are many fewer. You deny it. Actually, counselor, you say so. But reality and numbers are like that. And, in fact, this relationship between autonomous communities is for Catalonia's negative. We are also talking about one of the reports that came out of one of the most important spaces, such as the start-ups, the Start-up Ecosystem Overview, which they also talked about at the session of the other day, about assumptions, where we were talking about the loss, of fact, of volume, of the investment volume, in Catalonia in a hub as important as Barcelona. In change, other hubs, like Madrid, are recovering or increasing this reversal. And that's real data. So, what do we want to plant with this young man? So concrete measures, concrete measures that vary in three areas: the fight against morostality, facilitating access to public contracts and reducing red tape. The entrepreneur knows perfectly well how many triguen days a bill can be paid that send to the Administration. We want the Generalitat to provide transparent and useful information on how and when it will pay the provider. We want to give access to the administration's contracts, fragmenting them, actually fragmenting them, and reducing the excessive guarantees that they are asking for today from companies that cannot cope with what we consider to be a bust. We want to change the bidding process; we want to change a whole series of bidding processes that we believe today are not adapted to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. In fact, we also need definitive access to an effective administration, to a single window deployed throughout the territory; that's why we have data on this and I think we can find ourselves in it. In short, Members, Members, we want to do a purpose exercise, which can create new tools that improve the day-to-day of those who are playing a lot to create a society that needs to be able to look at them firmly in the eyes and, convinced, tell them that they are one of the priorities, that today they are not, of this Parliament and of this Government of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. The words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.110.0	Thank you, President. Mr. García, the motion you have presented places some elements of three of the aspects that you mentioned in your question – he mentioned a few more – that could help the better of the circumstances in which our companies work, especially, as you said, small, medium-sized and micro-sized enterprises, which are the most important in the country, but also those that probably have the most difficulty in competing in a global economy. They are partial elements, what you have, of concrete aspects, which could be of others, could be many of others, if you could quote more. But, as the selection you have made, we have refrained – it doesn't seem bad to us – from adding other aspects that..., not because we say more things we will complete them. Elements that matte, elements that particularize situations that are already happening but that you add a little more to them than, therefore, could allow them to improve. Therefore, we have already given him the opportunity to vote for them – almost – all in favour, as well as some appreciation and material that he would like to do. The first element that you have, as you said, is in relation to lateness, which is obviously a difficult problem for everyone, but above all for small businesses that have a low liquidity and that the fact that they do not collect in time puts them in a difficult distortion that can often end up bringing down the blind. Therefore, it is obvious that we must fight against it. Now, it's neither an easy question nor one that can be solved with a few minor regulatory changes or changes in instructions like the ones we put here in the young lady; we don't have to be aware. Because we are, in the background, a country where morale is traditionally accepted as a lesser evil, and, unfortunately, we would probably find a change in social behaviour in relation to the punctuality of payments to all levels, to all social levels; obviously, also in what it does to the case. There is a report, which you must have read, "European comparison of terms of payment in commercial transactions – it was 2012 – is prepared for the World Bank – which placed Spain, at private level, as the third country of the European Union with longer terms of payment: ninety-nine days, only after Greece, with one hundred_deu, and Italy, with one hundred_three; and before there was Portugal, with two. Therefore, countries of the south; this already means something. Now, it is also true that measures have been taken, from that year that I have cited so far, and that the evolution of these measures has been positive; and this should be acknowledged. Because, if we look at the Butllet of Morosity and Business Finance of Cepyme, we see that from the 98.3 days of midday of the end of 2011, we moved to 81.4 at the beginning of 2016. And, moreover, in this report precisely highlights positively the evolution of businesses in Catalonia, which is situated with the second Spanish region that pays better, to say the least. Taking reference to the third quarter of 2010 until the beginning of 2016, it has reduced the average payment terms by seven days, and passed to seventy-five days. And if we look at the public sector, where they have established themselves – there is a theme that you present about this – common indicators for all public administrations, we will see that the average period of payment to monthly providers, Generalitat de Catalunya, November 2016, is 62.19 days, when the generation of 2016 was 66.48. So we're getting better, but actually it's not enough yet. Because if there is one thing that is seen in these reports is that one of the risks associated with the consolidation of this supposed economic expansion and of these supposed growth expectations is that the greatest demand and willingness of liquidity relaxes businesses, the vigilance in the matter of charges, the vigilance in the matter of payments. And that would explain a certain twist or a certain stagnation, to say the best, in the evolution figures of this better. That's why we're fine with the nuances you're introducing on this subject in the first eight points of the motion, only with the exception of the third point. We don't think it's too much emphasis on the relationship that morosity has with the function and price of the credit. The evolution of the types of interest in the nine bank credit operations has evolved downwards across Europe, but we are following countries where this type is higher. At the beginning of last year the middle type was already 3.28 in Spain, when the middle euro was 2.74. It is clear that the behaviour of private banking in our country in relation to its social function leaves much to be desired. That is why we have incorporated that message that we have to deal with, because you do not want to put the words "public bank", but we accept the transaction, which says that there is no private company up there, please, that the public intervenes at the time of the financing, to help our small and medium-sized enterprises. The second element you place is in relation to public procurement. There are measures that have already come out in their moment in that decree that we have validated here. Let's discuss it there. I recommend that you withdraw your message to totality, because many of these measures are included and we can improve them at that point. And finally, and finally, for the simplification of administrative activity, we agree with simplification whenever we guarantee work places and their quality, which is the theme that we have presented to you and that you have accepted us. Therefore, Madam President, separate vote on point 3. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.112.0	Well, thank you, President. For our part, therefore, we value that the thick of the young man makes, therefore, a series of very generic recommendations with which we cannot be against. Yes, I will explain the two concrete aspects to which we will not support. In the first place, the creation of an observer of morosity, because we think that in this case, therefore, the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity already completes this paper; a platform, certainly, that if you enter its web, then, call attention to a graph that has – it is not at the entrance – on the state of the question in the terms of payment and in which call attention, above all, compare the term of the medium of payment of the Administration, that are these eighty-two days that the deputy Vidal claimed, with that of the businesses of IBEX 35, that are one hundred and sixty-nine days. And it's good to remember this because sometimes from certain versions of liberalism the State or Administration always points to the way in which problems arise, when in reality it is the practice of the great monopolies, of the great oligarchic enterprises, which have this ability to influence the State and to make it the primary expression of the interests of the ruling class, as stated before, therefore, are these great enterprises that pass this illusion of free competition in capitalism, aren't they? The other point to which we will not support is the recovery of the Office of Oversight and Evaluation of Public Contracting, as we think that at present, as a general direction and more dependent, therefore, on a department of transparency, it already completes its function and takes more rank. On the reviews of the other groups, we do regret that some of us who believe in fish have not been incorporated. Let us think, therefore, in effect, in what Juntes presented for the Yes, which refers to the payment of the FLA, since, if we legitimately, obviously demand that the Administration complete at the time of paying its suppliers, we also have to demand that the State place these facilities in treasury, right? And that would be going to the problem scene, and not just point out, as the motion seems, as well as the generality's shortcomings in paying suppliers. And also that it was not accepted in its integrity that proposed Catalonia Yes it is Pot on the public bank. It has finally remained, therefore, redesigned to the Catalan Institute of Finance, but some groups in this chamber are very clear that any public policy to support the product fabric will be undermined if it does not incorporate a powerful public bank as a motor. Finally, our task, which has been negotiated, went to a concrete point on public procurement. It is a subject that we also consider to be of priority, if we are to focus it more on the perspective of the struggle against precariousness than on the perspective of the competitiveness of the enterprise. And that's all it means, therefore, that Ciutadans has accepted a part of the issue, the reference to decent wages, but it didn't realize that this decent salary, as we have already done in the drafts of the Bill of Measures, would be 1,200_euros for the lowest category. This is precisely one of the points that we have presented, as I said, to the Law of measures to deepen in a more honest public contract and that I am not pre-empting precisely..., together with other points that the Parliament approaches late or late, such as the limits of subcontracting and that cannot win contracts that operate in tax havens. However, this issue has not been fully accepted, but it has been negotiated, and it is a point that we will also vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.113.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. The words of Mr Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.114.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselors, MPs, MPs, well, the issue that this young man deals with is a relevant issue, it's an opportune one. It's about morosity, about admin, about contracting; so, it's an opportune issue, because it's very related to everything that makes it easier or makes it difficult for businesses to pull forward, huh? To remember a given that is at European level, simply, therefore, what is business mortality, right? : a company, ever since it's gone, so there's a 82_percent chance that four years ago, 82_percent of businesses live less than four years, huh? Business mortality studies, when analyzing the causes of why companies die so quickly, give a few; the first is always related to finance and morositude. Therefore, the subject of the young woman is relevant. Before we enter, then, in the concrete position we have in different points, simply say that at the same time we believe that the motion, still and deal with a subject relevant, oblivious to fears that are important. For example, let's say four, the first of them: the issue of morositude is a priority of this government, and we believe that the young man, and with the wording he has, does not recognize, does not put in value that has produced much more important in the last twelve months in which the term of payment is. Twelve months ago the term of payment the Generalitat had was sixty-six days, at these times it is thirty-two days, it has gone from sixty-six to thirty-two. There was an important fall. We are better off than the state media: Catalonia is thirty-two days old– to give a pair of dice– Madrid is forty-eight days old, Murcia, sixty-three. Catalonia, thirty-two; therefore, we are better. So, we don't think you recognize a good management that's been done. This has to do with the government. Here too we have to talk about FLA. The FLA has drawbacks, the FLA has at important times incurred excessive financing costs. At the same time it has to be recognized that a part of what has happened is related to the existence of the FLA. Obviously, the... I'm also what we all know: that the FLA is not the solution, or it's not the ideal solution. Catalonia has a very important fiscal deficit, which explains that many times there are hardships. Well, then, the young man is also leaving other important issues; don't say what's harder about lateness. As the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity was published a year ago, the big Spanish builders pay their suppliers on terms, some of them, of 492 days. So here we are talking about sixty, thirty... big builders, some of them, pay 492 days. Another issue that does not deal with the motion – it was explained by the deputy Botran of the CUP – is the theme of the FLA, eh? The FLA has two problems. One is the ordinary FLA, we're at the end of generation and we don't know how much the FLA Generality will charge, neither the quantity nor the date. And of the extraordinary FLA, which has to do with over-deficit of the previous year, we still don't know the quantity and, in principle, the forecast is that it is covered, from over-deficit of the previous year, to June and December. What we ask for, what we ask for in a puzzle is that it's started to collect this extraordinary FLA from the gener. Well, in relation to the young man, we would vote that if at some point, we would abstain in enough and also say 'no' in some of them. The main reasons are: all you have to see with the calculation of the period of medium payment. When you calculate an indicator, it's not as important as it's calculated, it's... but it's also very important to compare it to. If we change as we calculate and the rest of the autonomous communities and public administrations keep the royal decree Montoro as it is calculated, we will have comparison problems. On the subject of creating an observer of morosity, obviously, today we have people of the sector, but I would say that maybe you should also talk to Pimec, with Cecot, with Foment del Treball... There are organizations that tell us that there is no need, that there is already the Multisectoral Platform against Morosity. On some subject, we will abstain or vote on contracts, because they are things that are already fan or inaccuracies. From the supervisor's office, we think it works better today with the general direction format. And finally, finally, a final comment. As the Member Joan García, whom I thank for the 'whatever we have negotiated some business and some transaction..., also wanted to remind him that, when he is fixed in certain data on businesses, I would say that he takes into account the reports of the Chamber of Commerce, which takes into account what the Financial Times says, which takes into account what the majority of reports say, that Catalonia leads exports, leads the growth of GDP, leads the creation of enterprises, is a community where there are fewer companies than in other autonomous communities; it is a community, a region that is one of the favourites of all Europe for investment. Then, with all these data they say, what would they say if any of these data were not as good as it is? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Amat. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.116.0	Thank you, President. Well, I, first of all, want to begin by congratulating us on the reduction of unemployment during 2016 in more than 541,000 people. It is very good news for Catalonia, it is very good news for Spain, and this shows that since the People's Party government we are helping – I insist on the word: helping – to create jobs already for the third year in a row. As for the motion brought to us by the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, I must tell you, Mr García, that it does not cease to be a necessary statement, albeit something out of time. Because the economic situation has, fortunately, changed a lot as far as corporate lateness is concerned. Look, in fact, when lateness was more virulent than today, our parliamentary group presented a proposal for a law to combat lateness in the Generalitat sphere. It was an ambitious and entirely appropriate proposal, aimed at overshadowing the systematic breaches of the public administration, and especially – and here is the addition that you have accepted – the entities of the public sector of the Generalitat. Indeed, in November 2016, the Generalitat paid with an average delay of thirty-two days, here it has been said, while the rest of the public sector, forty-seven and a half. That is why we understood that its addition was necessary. As far as I am concerned about the proposed law that we put forward in 2013, our initiative did not have the majority support of the chamber, even though at that time – at that time – it did prove to be particularly appropriate to have such a regulatory provision. In any case, this was supplanted by the Spanish Government throughout the country by the protective action which, in some way, involved the payment plan to suppliers. We finish and take the bills out of the drawers. And I must also say that it was not my intention to talk about him, but since he's out, I'll talk about him, I'll talk about the FLA. I find it surprising, when not mind-blowing, that we are told that the FLA does not work. More than 60,000_million receives Catalonia, has received Catalonia, from the FLA in recent years; it is more than 30_per_cent of the volume of the fund. And they still complain? Remember that the Generalitat of Catalonia cannot go to the financial markets to finance because its bond receives the cataloguing of the garbage bond; therefore, be more equitable in the analysis of the issue. In any case, we will support, in relation to the motion, Ordinals 4, 5, 6 and 7, and we advocate the deletion of number 8 as it seems to us that establishing a sanctioning regime that goes beyond the very compensation provided for in the Law, the 15/2010, establishing measures in the fight against lateness, is sufficient. With regard to the second part of the motion, with regard to public procurement, we have proposed the elimination of the widespread possibility of fragmentation of contracts. And why in lots, huh? Why? Because it is well known that the misuse of this practice has facilitated dishonest behaviour in the field of public procurement. I also want to say to you – I want to say to you – that the economic climate has changed a lot. It has changed a lot because we have left the economic crisis largely behind, and I say it clearly from a business point of view. But neither can I forget myself and I must tell you that we are experiencing extremely worrying data regarding the creation of a business fabric in Catalonia. We have known that, in 2016, 802 companies left Catalonia and 531 settled here. That is, for every three companies leaving, two come here from the rest of Spain. So, we're losing that tissue. We have a relocation problem, Mr. Counselor. It is a chilling fact that from 2008 to 2016 there has been a net loss of 2,522 companies, and more recently those that are leaving are significantly larger and with more billing capacity. There are reasons, on the other hand, to explain it. Look: the high taxation – that which the CUP imposes on them –, the excessive regulation that hinders its activity and, of course, the political and institutional instability that the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia promotes. Delocalisation is increased by the high legal uncertainty that causes us, for example, to stay out of the umbrella of the European Union if their separatist theses thrive, and especially if their CUP partners want to do so, who end up always taking the cat to the water. Therefore, I ask you [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that in this phenomenon avoid – avoid – running, avoid rushing, should not take further steps in the wrong direction. This unbridled race does not lead us anywhere, and the data so reveal. What happens is that many times statistics, from the scope of the Generalitat, are presented in a partial, interested and subjective way, and that deprives them of credibility. And for a process like you want, what you're demonstrating is basically that, lack of coherence, lack of credibility. And, above all, they're committing real...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.117.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.118.0	... – I finish – real democratic abuses. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.119.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Then, in order to fix her position, the words of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.120.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies, deputies, well, therefore, Ciutadans presents to us today a young man with a title of ambition, because he talks about the competitiveness of the Catalan company and, really, when one enters the young man we do not talk, in general, about the competitiveness of the Catalan company because, if not, we could find many things missing, and with this sure that the deputy Joan García, therefore, will agree, right? Because we would certainly find ourselves lacking, therefore, to talk about the size of the company, the difficulties or abilities that they must have in order to be able to export, in order to be able to internationalize, the difficulties, also, therefore, to innovate, to invest in innovation and, therefore, also be more competitive with their products, serve or processes and, obviously, we could also talk about the quality of the occupation. And I take advantage that Mr. Santamaría has drawn the headline who was right to say to him that if we analyze the employment data we could also see..., now UGT has just taken a few graphs in which the difference between the occupation in the fourth quarter of 2015 appears compared to the fourth quarter of 2016 and is clearly visible as the increase in the employment in the service sector and low in the industrial sector. This means, unfortunately, precariousness, because we know that the sector you serve, basically very linked to trade and tourism, are sectors that at these times are not contracting with high quality levels, but that there is very precariousness, there is a lot of temporality, the undersides are low... So, look: it increases the occupation, but let's make sure that when we analyze the sectors it increases in services and low in industry. And if we compare the third and fourth quarters of 2016, we see how the chemical sector, for example, lowers and pushes the inn. That's to say, we have to go with it and look very well at the data. Because we increase the number of jobs, from the start, it may seem positive; but when we look at them, if it turns out that we are destroying jobs in the industrial sector, that it is a sector, you know, that stability, that has good wages and some better conditions, we are probably not doing well. Therefore, the young man does not talk, let's say, about the best of the competitiveness of the Catalan company, but I think he is centered – and the honourable Member sure that he will agree with me – he is very centered in the relationship of the Administration with the company, isn't he? , and as the Administration has to try to be the best example in order not to create problems for the Catalan company. I what? From the point of view of the morositude, that is, from the point of view of the management of the payment of the Administration to the enterprises; also from the point of view of the public contract that makes the same Administration, and then in that regulation that it has qualified in relation, therefore, to the administrative simplification, law with which the Socialist Group has been very and very critical a few months ago, right? Anyway, it's true that lateness is a problem. But I would also like to say that it is true that the Generalita has improved the terms of payment, and I think that here we criticize them many times, but it is true that in this sense it has improved in an important way and goes so far as to say. And it's also true that the FLA instrument has helped this to be so. Neither do we like the FLA as the instrument; we believe it has many shortcomings and many deficiencies, but in any case it has and has helped us, too, to improve these terms of payment. Most of the proposals that are put forward in morosity want to improve the transparency and information that we give to companies. Also an important element for us, which is the issue of sanctions, is that we can sanction them, and that we can also inform subcontracts, subcontracted companies, of which is the payment plan they tend to have. Because it's true that it's usually them who end up having major difficulties in charging. And, therefore, most of the issues that are being addressed, therefore, seem to us to be positive and we will vote in favour. For what it does to aspects of public procurement, many of them are true that they are dealing with the decree we validated a while ago, and that it seems that a law will come that will allow us to deepen further and, therefore, we agree with all of them. What we'd like is for all of this to end up being embedded in this law and, therefore, the fem... so we give it more solidly to this subject. And therefore, in general, except in point 3, we will vote in favour of the remainder. It seems to me that it is a very related motion to the relationship of the Administration with enterprises, which is very important because the public sector generates a lot of business for enterprises. And so, so, what we have to try to do is that this trades the gift to the micropimes, to the peppers and that helps, so, that these can have in the Administration a client that is solid and that is reliable, right? And in this sense, therefore, the majority of proposals are positive, and they go in this line. And, in any case, another day we can talk about the competitiveness of the Catalan company beyond this relationship with the Public Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.121.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.122.0	Yes, thank you, President. I'll take steps. Mrs Romero – you are here – we have talked many times about other factors that obviously influence the competitiveness of the Catalan company. We believe that these factors that we have said, these three, are very important, especially for the peas and the micro peas. He also spoke – and Mr. Botran has told us – so there is a series of days, of morositude that, above all the big companies, are very much on top of what the Administration has; it's true. And that's why we want it to be the Administration that is related, many times or in the most direct way possible, to subcontracts. In fact, in this way I also respond to Mr. Amate when he told me that this point, that it is one of the most important points, one of the most important factors that create problems with the growth of companies, so we had not treated it. The deal and, in fact, we talk about notifying and directly relating to these subcontracts, that it is precisely possible to know or know when it was paid to the contracted company for which they are working. And we think this point was very important. I, in general, wanted to give thanks, therefore, for the more positive attitude of practically all groups; I think it was important that this be done. But you, Mr. Love, have made this mistake that we are precisely, so you say that you are making everyone. He told us about the change, which went from sixty-six days to thirty-two. He told us that the Administration pays in thirty-two days; it's not true, it pays in sixty-two days, because the thirty days you say the law doesn't fit into this report that we want to change because, precisely, you can actually know the sixty-two full days on which you are paid. With this we also have to add, many times, not only the sixty-two days that we are talking, but also when the invoice is issued, when the Administration reply and how long this Administration finds itself with this invoice, so, in calaix, stuck. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] We're still transparent, I think you're important. He won't give me time for anything else; simply, tell them that I believe that if you want to proclaim a republic, then I think that you are also able to change a report, right? I think they could do it and there wouldn't be any trouble doing it, so it's been a lot of trouble changing this report because there's a royal decree that allows them to do it, but it doesn't allow them to do it... Well, then, it's got to be a little more valuable for the company too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.123.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.124.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.125.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.126.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.127.0	Thank you, Mr. García. [[Some applause. Pause.]] Mr. Botran, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.128.0	By separate vote of paragraphs 7, 8 and 15. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.129.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.130.0	Yes, for a separate vote on points 2, 3, 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12. [[Pause.]] I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, Do you have it? [[Pause.]] Yeah, and then, the 6th... not the 16th. No, 6 bis. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. The 6 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.131.0	6 bis? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.132.0	To ask for a separate vote, and as long as we have many points to ask for a separate vote, we have asked for a separate vote on the points that the motion has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.133.0	What do you mean, "points"?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.134.0	Yeah. If not, I sing to those who want to vote differently. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.135.0	Let's see, sing, and then we'll see if it counts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.136.0	Singing – singing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.137.0	Because we also have other petitions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.138.0	We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... Points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 10, 11, 15 and bingo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.139.0	A separate vote was requested on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6 bis, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 15 and 20. And, of course... can't they vote together, can't we group them together? [[Pause.]] No, no, So we have this vote, and after the rest of the vote, I don't know if it's two or three points, but... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.140.0	We've got a mix-up, 'cause I don't think there's a 20. It must be the 16th, the last.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.141.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.142.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.143.0	All right, let's get started. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 71 votes in favour and 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 35 votes to 71, with 26 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 71 votes to 60. Next, we'll vote point number 6a. The vote begins. Point 6a was approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 47 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 121 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number 11. The vote begins. At point 11 there is a tie: 61 votes in favour, 61 against and 10 abstentions. In any case, you know that in this case we have to repeat the vote. So let's go back to voting point 11. The vote begins. There is again a tie: 60 votes in favour, 60 against and 10 abstentions. It's different. In any case, now what we do will be called a vote according to the Rules. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.144.0	No, to ask for a couple of minutes, and if we do this from the Rules to talk about it, see if we can, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.145.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.146.0	Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.147.0	According to the Rules, we have to leave a couple of minutes. We have to give up some time, we have to call it a vote, and we're going to vote again. [[Long break.]] We repeat the vote. They know if there's a drawdown point. So let's go back to voting point 11. The vote begins. So point 11 was approved by 62 votes in favour, 61 against and 9 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Keep going. We're voting point number 12. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're voting point number 12. Point 12_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 15. The vote begins. Point 15 was rejected by 62 votes to 69, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Catalan Enterprise Competitiveness Movement was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Was there a mistake? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] All right, I'll say, I'll tell the tech service. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public remuneration]] [[302-00099/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on public remuneration, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Lord David Mejía. [[Pause.]] Please, shut up, we need to continue the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.148.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, trade union members, good morning. We present this motion following the inquiry that we wanted to make in the last plenary, with very clear and very concrete objectives. Since she counselled, in her speech in the past plenary, she did not answer many of the questions we wanted to ask her and did not give us her opinion as responsible for the department which is, among other things, the abuse of some of the other functions and directives, using as always the comfort they have in Madrid, is to say, to throw pilots out, we wanted and have tried to translate into this motion a very concrete and enlightening points in order to be able to reverse what we believe is not right on the part of the Government of the Generality. First of all, and most importantly, what we want is to restore the rights that were taken to work and that these still haven't recovered today. For this reason, we ask that in a specific period of time it is possible to make a calendar of the return of payments for 2013 and 2014. At the same time, we also want to try to reduce the interinitiation fees and that these are the same in all areas of public service, and to avoid the inequalities that currently exist. In this sense, we would also ask for the timing of the corresponding offers of public employment. Second of all, we want the number of other positions and trusted staff to be reduced. We don't understand how at times as complicated as all Catalans are going to be able to increase the higher charges by 9_per_cent and the directory by 13_per_cent. And I want to remember again, because I believe that Catalans deserve to know who the concrete data are, the scandalous case of the manager of the Consortium of the Port of Mataró and Portbou, who charges 169,000_euros. Do you really think that's normal? Don't you have anything to say about that? So, this is one of the many examples we could set. But we're glad of one thing. We rejoice that the Council, in the past Ple, recognized that the increase was the consequence of its separatist route. In concrete terms, and I read it literally, the councilwoman said: "This government is creating the process that it has between hands and, therefore, logically, we have to answer. And we need the people we need for the long run. Therefore, think that this increment of '11_per_cent is not too much for what we have in front. In order to finally begin to recognize that independence is subsidizing itself at the expense of all Catalans; in order to assume that its separatist process is what creates expense, it is what creates clientele and it is what creates friendships. We have more resources, we have more living people than the process, but we have less social welfare. So, you know what we do? That we want to do exactly the opposite. We want more social welfare for the Catalans and the lower ranks, we want more social policies and less processes. I insist on the idea that I put them through: how can they say that these are the most social assumptions of history and after recognizing that the process generates all these expenses? And, in the third place, and related to the point previously expressed. We call on the Government to present in the next few months a draft law in which it is possible to fix a salary table for the higher categories appropriate to their responsibilities. What we're going to achieve is that there's no such dispersal and unbalanced wages that anyone understands. None, almost none, because some people seem to understand it very well. In conclusion, from Ciuta in what we want is to adapt the social reality that the Catalan society sees to the reality of the people who direct the different institutions dependent on the Generality. And that's why we have to end up with the capitalism of friends, with the clientelism and with the vividors of the party. But, above all, and by democratic dignity, what has to be done is that the counselor sees it as normal and necessary for you to take them to the party to accompany Mr. Mas to the jutjat. [[Some applause.]] You know what's supposed to be normal? That you'll be working them in time and that you don't take the rights you've acquired and can do your job without political coercion, which is what you're doing. That said, I will take advantage of the return of the items to clarify a series of questions, above all point 3. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.149.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.150.0	Thank you, President. Miri, with us carrying two consecutive motions of a work nature, I am convinced that the president will let me start this a little different: "Very slowly we must name you. / Very slowly/ to fill in order the magnitude of January, / as who recognizes in the words/ civil containment of barbarism. / Very slowly/ expose yourself to the slope of memory,/ the hostile weather of memory,/ surround the years of silence/ with the light of their names,/ push them with a friendly hand/ very slowly. / Very slowly we must name you: / Luis Javier, Serafín, / Javier Sauquillo, Enrique, / Angel and also Lola, / Miguel, Luis and Alejandro ; / because only then the world / acquires its harmony: / Very slowly. It's a poem by Raúl Cordero, in memory of the five labor lawyers who died in Atocha and his wounded companions. [[Greetings.]] I think it is dedicated to the dismemberment, to which they have forgotten or to which they may have never known that it has not been so long to fight for freedom and for the rights of working people could cost life, and that unionism has existed, and that it continues to exist, and that it begins again, and that nothing has been given to us, and that it loses its origins for identity. And now we're going for the smaller things, which is the young lady who's taking care of us, and you'll forgive me. Look, your lady... there's three definite parts. The first one, I know it's hard to say there, but it's its usual propaganda about the useless expenditure of the public administration that they always do, and that in this case they focus, above all, on the subject of the high and the trusting ones. You know it's crying chocolate, and not to repeat it more, it'll be more certain, we'll just intoxicate a little more. You see, what is there to have only the other needed and rather with an assignment of concrete tasks? Okay. What should a few underprivileged but in some way excessive wages be paid? Okay, too. That trust funds should be the lowest possible name in assigned tasks, and that I can look for them, above all, from public functions and not put my friend back? Okay, too. But if what we want to achieve is this and not just say that we want to achieve it to stay well with our clientele, we need to do it well. Look, you say: « Reduce the other charges by 10_percent. Well, how many? Where to? In which organizations? Because, of course, the government will say, "Look, I'm looking at the figures: since 2011 there has been a reduction of 11_per_cent. Home, of course, that's why I did it – and it didn't agree to it – is to submit papers at these two points, that what they do is to make a plan for defining and reallocating the tasks that they have to do, and to move forward, without putting a sifter but the one that they need to do according to the tasks that they have to do, going forward tending, I say, to the progressive decrease of these figures, but from the quantities presented for the same government in the assumptions of 2017. So I'm already telling you that at these first two points that you're talking about these two questions, we're going to ask for a separate vote. And, look, the second part that you're doing is with reference to the terms and conditions of the staff of the Administration. And that has to do with what we've been talking about before, which is unionism. Miri, you're setting a series of conditions that the government needs to push. Of course, they've forgotten something that's basic, that's collective bargaining. The government does not have to set conditions, nor that are good, where there is a trading_mark. And, therefore, it is a conceptual question. That's why I've submitted papers and that's why we've come to a certain deal just in this sense: that it's concrete where you go to the negotiating table and some figures, that you put them, that the figures match that are the unions that are at the sectoral table, the ones that are negotiating, such as the 8_per_cent theme, that you already support up to 10. And the third part is to ask the government to submit a bill to order the salaries of the high-ranking officials. It does not seem to us bad that they are ordered, that they are rules general criteria, both of existence, as of objectives, as of the remunerations of the high bodies. If this proposal goes in this direction to us, it'll look good. Therefore, in summary, we will only ask for the separate vote from points 1 and 2. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.151.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.152.0	Thank you, President. Good morning again. Counsel, Members, Members, well, this is a young man who would like us not to come to this House, basically because many of the things that are being asked have already been approved in this Parliament, have been approved in this House, many of them in the House of Commons just a year ago, the 20th generation of 2016, and, therefore, if the government did its job we probably wouldn't have to be here. But, come on, it's neither the first time nor the first issue we find that the government is not fulfilling, and therefore the opposition groups are trying to compromise them again because somehow they're complete with the majority of this Parliament. Look, at 1 and 2 of us, we've done some work. It seems to me that there is a very serious need to talk about the trust and the higher ranks, because there is no oversize of these, because they have very clear who their functions are, so let's know what they do, because we have clear who their salaries are, their complements, and therefore, here, it is true that we have to go with the demagogue, but it also means that there is an approved law, or there are some elements in an approved law that come out of a Republican Esquerra's legacy, the previous legislature, which demanded that no other charge be more than a councilman. And it's true, as Mr. Mejía said, that there are high charges at these times to the Government of the Generality that cover more than a counselor. So, it's not what we say, it's that you don't fill in a law that approved some groups that today, so you support the government, right? So, the trick is not that we do it, we ask it to complete the laws. And in any case, what would be hot is a..., it's true, a more sessegated debate on this subject and being able to talk to it a lot calmer. Look, after we do some things in this young man, first of all, because we think it's very important to make it clear that who has to negotiate the terms and the rights suspected are the unions, and they have a very clear function, the negotiation is theirs and it's in a table, and it's the General Bureau of the Public Service, and so we've done things because we're putting the table to an agreement with the government. We think it's the way it's supposed to be, and we shouldn't interfere with this negotiation. It is true that in the motion that was approved on the 20th generation of 2016 we marked some elements, and these are to be developed, but at the rate that is considered and that can agree the unions with the government. Here is a limit date, well, that..., in a certain transaction that has taken place; we believe that it is better not to set limit dates because we end up conditioning the negotiations. But, in any case, we would vote in favour of it, because what it means is that the General Bureau of the Civil Service is called and is starting to negotiate. And I say "it is called because the social part of the table sent a letter because it is called to this General Bureau of the Public Service on the 12th generation and there is no call. It's unbelievable – it's amazing – that the government isn't going to talk to the unions, it's not going to start moving forward on those suspicions that haven't started yet, so it's going to develop, to improve. And we could talk about a lot of it: from IT, social welfare, work grants. Many elements that appear in this young man. Honestly, we don't understand that the government doesn't sit down and don't intend to agree on some things and get better. And he will say to me: "No, there are working groups. Well, look, it's that this work group isn't moving, and the work groups are just expanding the solution and expanding the answers. And that, really, is entrepreneurship a year later. The only thing you have completed is the share of your 2012 pay, taking into account that all of Spain's autonomous communities have already paid the cent_per_cent of this pay—if it isn't the cent_per_cent, 90_per_cent of the communities. So we always go back, we always go back. No, more than that, they've charged a lot more than we've paid. So, we're always going back to this. And it's true that many times she calls on public employees and public servants..., we might also have to be consistent with those appeals that we make and deal with them well. Try to improve their working conditions and return them to those rights that were suspended. The only thing we are asking is for us to know and negotiate, because there are certain rights that are not worth so many resources, that there are also hundreds, hundreds of millions of euros. Which now will tell us that, of course, we pay the 2012 pay, so there are hundreds of... Well, perfect; you know, that's why we said: "We have a calendar, and little by little. But there are other things, more than you pay for, and that's something we haven't just heard. Why don't you call this table? One of our reviews also went on this line: that it is called before seven days to count today, that this young man will be approved– let's hope–, the call of this General Meeting of the Public Service, and move forward in this negotiation, and leave us with delays, like the working groups, that do not bring us any solution or answer, and we can see it, a year later we are almost there. We've done some other work related to the aspects of inter-office taxes, because there's a lot of inter-offices... Well, you're talking about some bodies, we think they should also include rural agents and prison staff, they also have them, and they're also very delicate and with very special features, and so we've wanted to include them here. But, we repeat, we will approve this motion, but what is here is that the government is being questioned; the government is being asked to sue, to negotiate and to move forward, and to return some suspicious rights, those that are not worth hundreds of millions of euros, and those that are worth hundreds of millions of euros, so, shortly, we understand. But, man, you have the attitude and willingness to negotiate, that you don't have it. And I know it's hard, Counselor Borràs, but they don't have it. And if not, then we have the unions that told us two days ago in front of Sant Jaume Square delivering cards to the President of the Government and delivering cards to the Councillor, and so they still haven't had an answer. So, a little more dialog and a little more volunteering. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.153.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.154.0	Thank you, President. Well, I want to welcome the union representatives who are with us. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in addition to whether the figures of the Member of Ciutadans or the somewhat incomplete and somewhat inextricable answers of the Councilwoman in the inquiry are true, there are a number of facts that must be taken into account in order to contextualize the debate; certain facts that allow us to make correct and realistic proposals. First. It is true that the Catalan public sector is the heaviest, most expensive and duplicated in Spain. With official figures from the Ministry of Finance and Public Administration, Catalonia, with 393 entities, leads the ranking, followed by Andalusia, with 331 and Madrid, with 157. Maintaining all these entities costs the Catalans about 4,000_million a year. And we could dispense with many that only serve to maintain the illusion of the state that we are not. Second. It is true that the salaries of senior officials in these entities are very high. We have denounced it on other occasions, and it is ugly to point out, but there is nothing but to consult the budget portal on the website of the Generalitat, entity to check it. Third. It is also true that Catalan officials who depend on the Generalitat have suffered with stoicity unprecedented and uncomparable cuts and labour tensions throughout Spain. Fourth. We know that the trade union representatives present at the Civil Service Bureau are concerned and dissatisfied with the Generalitat and denounce their lack of negotiating will. Fifth. Finally, it is sad to admit that the Government's response, through the Councillor, is not up to the challenge. She is opposing the Government of Spain since the Parliament of Catalonia, which only demonstrates her lack of convincing arguments, and she is doing everything in a negotiation that she knows perfectly well that she herself has boycotted. And it is that, contrary to Resolution 7/XI and the Bureau's agreement of 9 June, Councilwoman Borràs has decided not to convene the General Committee, which has been pending since 28 November. Faced with such arbitrariness, on 17 January the unions asked the Speaker of the Parliament for a written amparo, and here are the evidence, here are all the letters. [[The speaker shows a few fulls to the chamber.]] Therefore, beyond that everyone should do politics in the parliament in which he or she feels more comfortable, in Congress or here, but above all what everyone should do is to fulfil his or her obligations to Catalonia, our responsibility here today is to unblock and expedite these negotiations, in order to respond to the almost two hundred and thousand Catalans who depend on the Generalitat. The Catalan officials of the Generalitat have suffered the crisis at least three times as much as the other Catalan or Spanish officials in general. You know, three pay cuts in three years, plus other lost rights. But it is that at the time of returning the pay of the 12, the Generalitat is the one that later or is delaying both in negotiating and in returning the, and that is that there is a_real decree that compels it. And of the return of the 13th and 14th pay, as there is no royal decree, because they were not cut in other parts of Spain, because, so we are, waiting for the Generalitat to dignify itself to propose or accept some proposal. Well, in view of this delaying and opaque strategy of the Generalitat, of its lack of negotiating will, we propose today as an amendment a proposal of agreement, the same one that we have recorded as an amendment to the budgets of the 17th and which has the support of the unions present at the Public Service Bureau : that in 2017 one third of the pay of the 13th is returned; in 2018, the two remaining thirds are returned, and in 2019 one hundred_per cent of the pay of the 14th is returned. We regret that this point has not been accepted by the other opposition groups, even if it is a direct request from the Commissions, UGT and IAC. The truth is that we don't understand it, but we will still support the final transaction, which gave everything to a return deadline in 2019. We have also tabled other amendments that also support trade unions, which we also have as budget amendments, to start concreteizing and voting on questions to try to guide the negotiation of the table in a more just direction: to recover the pre-2012 staffing table, with a sufficient multiannual offer of public employment reducing the precariousness to 8_per_cent; to give job stability to interim staff; to guarantee equal rights to temporary or temporary staff; to guarantee replacements from the first day in direct care positions for the citizen; to recover one hundred_per_cent due to temporary incapacity since 1 January 17; to recover the Social Action Fund, 60_per_cent in 17 and one hundred_per_cent in 2018; to restore the right to thirty_per_cent due to temporary incapacity, which is a discrimination that is being maintained; to recover teachers' teaching hours, the reduction of two_hours for seniors of the staff and the decree of the executives. We are grateful that all these amendments have been accepted by the Citizens' Group. And finally we also ask – and we have also been accepted – that Parliament force the Council to convene the general table before next February 3rd, next week, so that definitive agreements can be signed before the end of March 17th; fair agreements that respond, in the line we propose with our amendments in agreement with the unions, to the tense and disappointed situation of our officials, who have the right to be able to trust their administration, if it starts to behave with them as appropriate. President, we call for a separate vote on item 4.a. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.155.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.156.0	President, Members, well, let me begin, as always in these cases, by making a recognizance of the public worker's pocket, the important pocket they make, and also the patience they have had. We need to recognize – and we need to do this once more – that they have suffered, perhaps more than anyone else in this case, the adjustments at this difficult stage and that we have asked them for a lot, a lot of effort. Let me thank you for some of the interventions. I think that with Marc we are very much in agreement with many of the aspects that he has put on the table; that to Mrs Romero, therefore, I would like to thank him that when he comes out to talk about his sister, to negotiate, to move forward, to go a little bit... But I would also like to say that what they have on the table and what they understand they are voting has nothing to do with what they are putting on here, that it is asking for more work effort at the table, but what they are doing here is actually a mask to the assumptions, that they are practically 700_million for this year, 1,500 for what they do to pay in two years and a half and a half 2,500, I would say, if we also count the offer of public workers who put on the table. So, very well the tarannà, very well that we understand each other, very well – that you have gathered there on the 2nd of..., therefore, the week that you see, and it seems to me that the company of the unions that are here now and that the thanks that follow, also the general secretary, have finally quoted for the 2nd day. And, therefore, let's hope that this is a show of willingness to dialogue, to continue working, to arrive at agreements. It seems to us that the public service in general is hardly worth this young man who is here today. Why? Because the show that these clipboards are meant to be reversed, I think we've done it a lot of times: we've come to terms, we haven't had the first shows... So, what you always say would never happen, it's evidence that's going on. And when they find themselves in this situation where they see that progress is being made, that the return is beginning to come true, what they are planting is to say: "So, listen, now we want it today, right now, in an immediate way. And that's what's impossible. They are no longer my words; I am grateful, therefore, to the Romero company that you have put on the table and that you have explained it as well as you have explained it, that perhaps someone will understand it better..., that I do not. They make a statement for the back door to the premise and they tell us we have to push it, but in no case do they pose on the table from which we can do it. What do we do? We don't put on the table the seven-thousand places of work we have planned for the year you see? I don't think so, that this is a great opportunity. Are we giving up the deal to get more teachers? I don't think so either. Therefore, I believe that what we have to do, above all, and that is what everyone has reiterated, is to work together, to continue dialogue in the area of the table; "we press, the deputies, all together, to the Government, we ask you to continue talking, to sit down as often as you need, but we do not replace social concertation, which is the job you do. We're also worth it – and it won't give me time to make a break for it – and here we've also talked about it, so there's been a reduction in the last few years: if we look at it, so, in perspective, there's a 10_per_cent less of what else there was. And, therefore, what you plant in your point number 1 is actually already complete. Think about other things; we too will be over there. Let's see if Ciutadans, who has such an important role, is demanding now with the high offices of the Ministry of Culture, those who don't actually have any function and I'm sure you'll work every week to disappear in a hurry. I insist on the subject of social concertation. We don't usurp your workspace, we're still demanding from here. We encourage the unions to do the work. We encourage the department to put down the tools to do it... not the department, but the departments involved. It seems to us that what passed the 20th generation of 2016, even though someone wants to take value, is important, because what they did is they moved to the table to get agreements, and they did. And, therefore, we have advanced in LEBEP, in the days of personal assumption by old age, in the holiday days, in the 2012 extra pay, which is quite important. Insist on point 4, when you ask for more stalled: this year there are seven_thousand places to contest. Only a little bit short for Ciutadans: set_thousand places is the limit that the State allows, and you ask us to skip it. It seems to us that here they skate hard if they ask us to skip the law. It's the Spanish law that doesn't allow us to go there anymore. Therefore, we ask him for a little time, we would say; they wait until the republic, and we will have the resources and, moreover, the law will not have to worry them. But putting the seven-thousand places in value, there are a lot of people waiting for them. It's an opportunity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.157.0	Mr. Sabria...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.158.0	...that we haven't had during...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.159.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.160.0	...very old. We would have had calendars, just as soon as we had assumptions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.161.0	Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.162.0	MPs, MPs, councillors – president, thanks –, I will try to position our group not according to the words that the young man has said, because independenceist society, we are anticapitalism, and not of friends, but of any kind; we don't know about them. Capitalism, for us, is a pain. Well, for our group it's starting to turn out to be a bit..., it was going to say "unfortunately or "entrepreneur" – and forgive for the expression, if that's what it is – that on a topic where all groups seem to agree – we are all in favour of the rights of the workers, of the civil servants – so this is not concrete or can't be concrete in some way with a government action that puts this supposed unanimous and crystallizes in some effective way, huh? , in the government's decision-making process. There are many motions – before Catalonia's company Yes, it is Pot – and the times we discuss the subject. Surely it also helps the fact that, as we pay with counters, every time we get the drop we can talk about how we do it, right? But the subject and the problem I think are well known. We are talking or dealing with a topic that affects a collection of workers and workers, with a lot of social influence and with government policies before which we need to be able to position, given the high presuppositional repercussions that the topic has. In this way it is easy, therefore, to see how proposals girls through motions situate us over the same demands that are sometimes dealt with in the months of collective bargaining. And that, far from being a privilege for the public sector, for us often, we believe, acts as a negative fact, in the measure that remains or highlights the fragility with which the legitimate demands of the workers and workers of the public function can be instrumentalized. I don't say that as a toilet to anyone; there you caddiscú as you implement it and each group as you want to do. But that's what it means, that some proposals go further, including those that are dealt with in the months of negotiation. High union sensitivity on the part of some groups present in the chamber? No – no. We do not deceive ourselves, there is no high union sensitivities, nor do we deceive anyone: giving support to the board to complaints from workers in public office goes to strengthen the negotiation, as has been said here, collective bargaining, among others, to make a government compromise, as has been said here too, and to make assumptions changes, as has been said here too. And that's not how we can leave it with our ass to tie one or other group with reference to the assumptions. This is an object that can be legitimate in certain circumstances, but that before collective bargaining what we believe is, is precisely the ability to negotiate in search of agreements that can be reflected in concrete parties in the assumptions and in agreement with the resolution, which has also been made here, approved the past generation, huh? , for this Parliament, with which, we think, the Government must feel compromised. Since the CUP we have been defending and supporting the recovery of purchasing power and the pending payments of external payments for 2013 and 2014. I do not think I was wrong to say that all parliamentary groups have expressed the support that these payments are actually made, and that this, precisely, and again, must come out through agreement in collective bargaining. We have made clear at other times on the part of our group that we think that the debate on remuneration policies should be done in a general framework that also allows topalls to be fixed at maximum and, on the other hand, minimum wages or payments managed by the Administration, with the aim of obscuring the disproportion existing in the highest and lowest levels, and that this difference is drastically reduced. In fact, in the papers presented for our group, we make a proposal for redistribution and proportionality in the salaries of the senior officials and possible workers. In particular, we propose a reduction of 19_per_cent in the additional salaries of the higher categories. And this proposal, that some may already misinterpret, eh? , for the CUP it is clear: the defence of the purchasing power of the public administration workers cannot cover the disproportion existing between the highest and lowest subs, as well as disproportionate remunerations, and less, including, not justified. And even the proposition of assumptions, we also observe increments; we observe increments of higher loads. We're also presenting an issue that you bet because it's over with the staff's interintity that will work in one piece. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] or temporary workers – forgive me, I'm finished – and it will be up to these expressed intentions repeatedly from this forum and from the committees to respect what we are dealing with today, which we will support or abstain from at the points of your youth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.163.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Mr. David Mejía then had the words to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.164.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank all the interlocutors of the different parliamentary groups: Mr. Vidal, Mrs. Romero, Mrs. Caves; and Mr. Sabria and Mr. Garriga. The truth is that we have tried to trade most points to make a better possible text and I think it has been; in some points it has cost us more, in others, we have not been able to agree, but I believe that the will has been there. We have also tried to shape the demands expressed by the different unions, not only our group but also the rest of the groups. And, in short, I think there will be a better text than had originally been presented. He gave the Lord Sabrià that we were demanding. Don't worry; they are demanding. Actually, it's not what they are, it's that we're already demanding, and we'll follow it. On the subject of transactions and points, point 1 and 2, which refers to Mr. Vidal, well, we believe that it is already correct as they are. We understand his position, but we've decided, we think he's already fine as he finally defined himself. Regarding point 3, which has been the most different until the last hour, I believe that all groups have rejected the last version. In any case, I think we can finally reach this agreement. In short, we hope that it is recovered and that this recovery of workers' rights is made effective and that it is an evidence and that we can recover the payments that are due and improve the civil service of Catalan workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.165.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. We're calling it a vote. Why ask me the word, Mr. Sabria? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Any points...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can you vote together? The 6, the 7 and the 8 can vote together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 6 and 8, yes. Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.166.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.167.0	Number...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.168.0	Three. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.169.0	In fact, a separate vote on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8 was requested. And on the 6th and 8th they can vote together. Okay? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.170.0	To withdraw a petition. I withdraw the request for a separate vote from item 4.a. We can vote for everything together. We have no separate request for a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.171.0	To see, therefore, a separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2, 3, 4, 6, 7 and 8. I repeat: 6 and 8 are allowed to vote together. Okay? [[Pause.]] And any of these can be voted together, 1 and 2, for example? The 1st and the 2nd? [[Pause.]] One and two can vote together. Okay. [[Pause.]] All right. We will begin by voting together for points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 60 votes in favour, 62 against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 59 votes to 61, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 70 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote jointly on points 6 and 8. The vote begins. Points 6 and 8 were approved by 131 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 59 abstentions. And then we'll vote for the rest of the young lady, which is only point number five. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The rest of the young man's number five, huh? The vote begins. The Public Compensation Office has been approved [[applause]] by 70 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.172.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Institute of Self-Government Studies]] [[302-00100/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government about the Institute for the Study of Self-Government, presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Esperanza García" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.173.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor... we have a councillor, the half-empty hemiscle, but we have the councillor here. To be and to look. At that point we leave the question that originates in the end and is the origin of this motion that from the People's Party we are voting for this plenary today. Since the Government in 2013 received the National Transitional Council and Mr. Liver, of course, from that council, converting the Institute of Autonomic Studies into the Institute of Self-Government and creating the various offices, secretariats– yes– interdepartmental under that name of « self-government– name that has been, in short, an alibi that supposedly explained the creation of these bodies for the improvement of self-government–, we have found no fact or explanation that leads us to think that this works precisely for that purpose, to improve self-government. We have not received a reply as a parliamentary group, neither in writing nor orally, nor with the subsequent appearances of the leaders and managers and the people in charge of the management of these structures. And therefore, in the end, we formulated an inquiry almost a month ago to Mrs Munté where she asked about the role and what are the consequences of the exercise of the functions of these agencies, the cost and purpose of them, the only thing she gave us as an answer was silence, and of course she did use the insult as the only justification tool to recognize, in the end, what this whole chamber knows, that these agencies are who they are, and that in the end that Institut d'Estudis d'Autogovern – once passed through the procedural dictionary and fallen into the hands of Viver – has become, together with the other bodies, organisms that are led by prominent members of the government party and that dedicate themselves, in the end, to designing how to dispel what is the democracy we enjoy in Spain, which has cost millions of Spaniards, sufferings and so many resignations. Therefore, however much these bodies call themselves self-government, the only thing they do in the short term is to weaken it and put it at risk, and in the long run to weaken our democratic system, which is the common good that we should all protect. Yesterday we learned that Mr Puigdemont and the other companions, that is, the three tenors: Puigdemont, Junqueras and Romeva, went on a trip to Brussels and that cost us 127,000 euros to the Catalans, in the end only to carry out an act of internal consumption. And what we understand is that just like that act..., today we are bringing this motion here – precisely – to avoid that, to prevent the waste of resources that Catalans could have for other much more beneficial and productive issues, such as the improvement of the welfare state. Therefore, the motion is very simple, it is of one point, because in this matter one has to have good..., things very clear. If you do not agree that the Generalitat makes use – under the alibi of self-government names – of institutions and resources of Catalans to separate rather than to unite or improve our self-government institutions, those people who create that and those groups who represent people who think that must clearly position themselves to suppress those bodies that are dedicated to deconstruction, and not to the creation or construction of a state of well-being and a strong and solvent autonomy. Therefore, those departments which have been created, which are, in the end, dedicated to the study of illegal referendums, which are devoted to the study of conferences on how the right of self-determination is negotiated, to studies that talk about the creation of a new Catalan DNI or CNI, precisely those institutions in our autonomy remain. And there's plenty, why? Because they do not fulfil the functions for which they were supposed to be created, and therefore devoting human and economic resources to these institutions is a clear fraud of law. Having said that, I hope that with such a simple motion, of a single point, there will be no half inks in positions with regard to this. I would ask you, and I would ask you, please, to go beyond the name and title of these bodies; look at the background, look at it, think about it and, above all, make a determination that those citizens who do not believe or want or consider independence to be a solution to their everyday problems are tired of their human and economic resources being destined to destroy and not to create. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.174.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.175.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, in reality the message presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group..., which was a message of suppression, which, as I suppose, understandable, the People's Party has not assumed. But this is what we want to show our firm commitment to the People's Party's approach to this issue. Mirin, one thing is that we are witnessing in his day, it doesn't make any difference, to a appearance of the person who encapsulates the Secretariat for the Development of the Presidency Department's Self-Government, which I was able to qualify, but in any case, it was very acclaiming, because it was basically unable to quote any aspect in which you are working for the best of self-government, in something concrete, no plan, no action, anything that was not, in the reply, a repetition of some instructions. But the other one is to do this task that claims the People's Party to demolish existing instruments until now and that they have held and have, we understand, a feeling. It is discussed or not which is the current framework of relations of Catalonia with the rest of Spain, and it is intended to expand the capacity of self-government that the Government of Catalonia has or to make the country move towards a new status, the fact is that, now and here, these are instruments that an autonomous government must have and that it is reasonable that it has. We could discuss whether the functions of the Office for the Millions of Institutions of Self-Government and of the Secretary are overlapping in part or not and see which should be the most rational distribution of tasks between each other. In any case, the Interdepartmental Commission for the Development of Self-Government should be deleted, even if it wants to do away with it, because we understand that there are aspects in all and each of the departments that it is appropriate to coordinate, that it is good that it is coordinated, and that, in any case, it can also serve to raise proposals on how to improve the self-government instruments that the Catalan Government has. I, of course, of course, of course, of course we can pass because it is intended to limit the Institute of Studies of Self-Government – which obviously has been working for a long time, even though with another name – to do..., as they say here: "To focus its functions of study and advice on the competences that are their own, it is to say, to work for the better of the exercise of self-government, according to the Statute of Autonomy and the Constitution. But, well... Is it that it is not possible to study which serious the possible formulas to improve, increase the self-government of Catalonia, whether within the framework of the current Statute and the Constitution, or proposing ad hoc reforms of the Statute or the Constitution? Is that not even that he can do? Is it that they cannot compare, as they have done for so many years and, moreover, with interesting articles published in their magazine, the federal systems that exist in other countries of Europe? Or, in general, the states that are organized with some form of deconcentration and political decentralisation, and see what experiences are interesting and may matter, which others are interesting because they are problematic and therefore hot not to run into these mistakes? It is that, certainly, it seems absolutely out of order. Now, let's say, in this kind of centralizing rage of the People's Party, it is obvious that we will not be found by any means and by a great deal of reference to these accessions – to which it was, of course, also known at this morning's session – certainly does not seem to be the best way to mislead those who disagree with you in order to get them into one or other rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. The words of Mr. Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.177.0	Thank you, President. Well, I cannot thank the presence here of Mr.Carles Viver i Pi-Sunyer, who seems not interested that he is debating about the office of l'Institut d'Estudis d'Autogovern that he runs, it seems that he does not want to come, he does not care... There is a party that says that he continues, but that adapts his studies to the Constitution and the Statute and so on, but this seems not to matter, it seems that it does not interest the other departments, of offices dependent on the Department of Presidency i d'Economia i Hisenda, what will be done with these offices that they intend to suppress. And it's just that it's normal, they don't want to fly this, they don't want to make noise, they want to be discreet, they want to work little by little. They want to make a sudden disobedience when..., that no one seems to realize what they're doing, that they work in a basement making a national transition law that doesn't know anyone, there, discreetly. That is what this work requires to fail the law: it requires some darkness, it requires closed basements and safes where texts are kept that others cannot know because we might be frightened. And then these people decide not to come here today to listen to what is said here. They decide not to come today, so that there are parties that reproach them that they, which should serve all Catalans, serve only certain parties to which Catalan citizens vote. These people who charge from the public treasury, Mr.Viver i Pi-Sunyer charges as much as a counselor, we have the advisors of the Government and we have Mr.Carlos Viver i Pi-Sunyer doing something at the l'Institut d'Estudis Autonòmics that we cannot have access to, because he with his discretion covers it, and today he is not here to nod or deny. When the money of all Catalans is invested in things that we do not know well what they are, that we have to ask and that we do not get an answer, it seems very logical to me that there are political parties that say: "Listen, if they do not explain what they are doing and what we know by the media, it is that they are dedicated to doing things for those who do not have competences, and they cannot be spending the money on doors and living as pachas with everyone's money, because it closes. This is what is required for those offices that have no known trade. For those who do have it, from the former Institut d'Estudis Autonòmics, which they now call « d'Autogovern, it is simply asked to adhere to its functions of all life. Therefore, although we regret that the People's Party has not accepted the amendments we were proposing, which were, let us say, somewhat more complete, since what we requested and reiterated is that we be given a full explanation of how many people are working there, what actual budget they are taking, what resources they are draining from our autonomy and everything we need from the rest of Catalans. And since this has not been answered for the time being, despite the fact that the people responsible for these offices have appeared here, whose abolition is called for today, then I think it is appropriate that we bring it here to the plenary and that the rest of the representatives of the parties ask for what we believe is fair. And what we don't think is a receipt either, Mr. Pedret, is that we profile ourselves. When there are offices, public resources are being used, clearly, to work against the law, in an opaque, non-transparent way and with fabled wages, unwarranted, which do not serve any objective wage criterion of tables of public servants, but which are prizes of their political friends, it seems to me that we have to have a little more critical spirit and courage to reproach it, exactly as if there was a party that in the rest of Spain managed, with the votes of all Spaniards, to want to burden itself with the state of the autonomys that we have and did from dark offices, with the money of all. Well, look, Citizens criticize this of these gentlemen who want to burden themselves with the Constitution and our rule of law. And in the same way we would if the central state were to promote a widespread breach of legality with all the opacity and money of everyone. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.178.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Next, to fix his position, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.179.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, look, our parliamentary group will vote against the motion proposed to us by the PP today, especially for the political logic and the dynamics in which this motion is based, which seems to me, from the outset, a propaganda way of addressing a political problem that would or should have or could have an absolutely legitimate discussion. The debate about the different bodies that have the task of pushing self-government – the improvement and development of self-government – is not only necessary but fully legitimate. In fact, this morning, when we discussed the motion presented to us by the Socialist Group, we talked about some important aspects of self-government. So the debate is open and Catalonia's self-government is in question, huh? That's obvious. But we told you that the approach made by the PP motion does not satisfy us; first of all, because of the form, because the motion proposed to delete all a sequence of organizations: the Secretary for the Development of Self-Government, the Office for the Millor of Institutions, the interdepartmental commission... From the outset, I would like to say that more than anyone can think of this organization chart, and even of its work, and I must say that after our recent attendance at the Committee on Institutional Affairs, our group did not come out with an enthusiasm for the activity and the task of these bodies, but more than that we must recognize that it is up to the Government to organize its work as you understand it. And the discussion is more political, not an organizational or organizational debate; the basis of the discussion is highly political. But, of course, that's precisely why we can hardly untie this young man who presents us with the PP of the general climate of confrontation that we are living in and in which this young man is enrolled. Reading it, we can hardly ignore the stubborn protest shown by the PP government in Madrid to recognize the national public reality of the Spanish State and the democratic aspirations expressed by Catalan society. When we read the motion and how it ends, the final fall of the motion, it usually formulates it with these terms: commission the institute to think within the constitutional framework. Of course, thinking cannot be done and a school of study must have the faculty of being able to study. I must remember – and I must remember – that the same Constitutional Court affirms and reaffirms in its doctrine that the Spanish Constitution is not a militant constitution. Therefore, freedom of thought, beyond the constitutional framework, is recognized by the same Constitution. We will vote against the motion because it seems imperial and urgent to break with this logic of institutional confrontation in which it seems that we are engaged and that it seems highly dangerous to us. We are witnessing a wave of legitimates that, if we follow the godfather instead of bringing him back to political settlement, we may end up taking a hard time. The way of the judicialization of the conflict, of a conflict of political nature such as we have raised and in what obstinacy, a way in which the government of the PP – on the very next day 6, we still have to go to the court to accompany the president But to denounce and explain that this is not the way and that this does not lead us to place it – is not only an unfair way, but it is an absolutely adventurous and irresponsible way on the part of the government of the PP. And we can't read the motion on the sidelines. But for this very reason, because it is a young man who enters into this dynamic of institutional confrontation, it is also the moment – and at what it is, of some things that have been said this morning – to make some clarifications about the course of events and how we are managing the thing from this Parliament. Because we think that it is urgent to articulate social majorities and to weave complicitys in Spain and Europe that are in favour of a democratic decision-making framework that allows us to unravel the conflict we have raised. And we repeat this because, hearing some interventions this morning, one starts to think that we may be entering the logic of ‘as worse, better, and that's a logic that we have to break – it's a logic that we have to break – and let me say it, because this morning it's done and I think it's forced to say it, this morning it was a lot of talk with a certain readership of the unions and the position of the unions, and I want to remember that the syndicates have their own spokespersons and that yesterday the Workers' Committees joined a manifesto in favor of a referendum agreed with the Spanish State, calling on the dialogue between the Spanish Government and the Government of the General for a legal consultation. So nobody thinks the unions are in another position, they're in that position, and we're in that position exactly. Therefore, precisely because we believe that it is necessary to break with this dynamic of confrontation and to go through life of dialogue and understanding, that they are difficult and complicated, but that they are the only ones that can shed light on the situation, that is why we will vote against this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.180.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.181.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Well, it was CUP - Constituent Creed will vote no. I'm not surprised, you know, because in all lightness it was a motion, we found that I was a good dialologist. From then on, we thought it was to wish dialogue that express was his motion to suppress self-government, and dilhéu aguanta dialogue auantala de suspension e e era suspension de estra autonomie directamente. And we smell this dialogue coordination between the National Audience and the Constitutional Tribunal, for a long time refined for the dialogue Fiscalia der Estado, then to hold the office of mayors, governors and elected officials of the country. And, in definition, like I'm talking about a motion that you suspect was freed from public call, and there's a universal right like him right now right now self-determination, so we decided to vote that no. This month, I'm not going to say that we're not talking. In the past, the dam was a reason, in this phase of self-government, and what we think he wants to prepare and possible scenarios for this victory ofth if after this referendum, right? This is the second phase, which will no longer be of government, except that it will be of recovery from a free, sovereign, full government, passing through to self-government at the government. And, as I said, you will not deny him no surprise, for we will depart and have the idea that we have come to this day to what end the regime, to build this republic, and to recover the sovereignty that is lost; let him say to him, "This is not a mandate." And we don't like to talk about self-government because it was self-government that we have to think about what autonomy I have completely intervened for the State, for the European Union, for the factual, economic, and peth Constitutional Tribunal powers. We have a self-government that I have completely secreted. We have freedom of expression that I am amputated. We have a legislative power in Parliament today that I have managed, that I have intervened, that I have undertaken, a self-government that you do not exist as such, we no longer have self-government, and completely secreted. And that represented his motion there. And that's not what I want you to do. This country, in the month of 80 percent, is going to decide on a referendum, it was a large majority of the country that is going to start a trial, they are going to recover sovereignty, all of them, to be able to decide how to be a country that we want, and a country that we want to see. And we do not love to give a speech of 'cannot, when in reality I want them to give it' is not wanted. And we did referendums and trials constitute, binding referendums, democratic construction of your new constitution, of naive rules. And this will be an important phase in the process of popular emancipation, because we want independence not to be independent because yes, otherwise we want to recover all sovereignty. And then he goes on his way, and he goes on a referendum, and he does win. And, counsel, we want eth Govèrn to get involved in this, we want him to get involved and prepare eth processes are a cop. The request that before this referendum we explain to all citizens of today's country that and will have a series of territorial debates, sectorial, that when to allow to discern, to decide is basic principles of this constitution. And by this eth Govèrn, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on, from now on. Planning was a structure to manage all of this, because it's going to be so big, we're so many people in this country, and it's so complicated to organize what you want to do now. And, in the month, it will be a decision-making trial that will be exemplary by all Europa, because he does not think of a Catalan question, or a question of a whole continent to which he has stopped being able to decide practically rent, and to be exemplary by changing the same continent, which bars are gates and which he wishes to open now far right. In the month to month, lawsuits constitute and it was better campaign deth yes they can hier, they can ask people to participate in it. And before voting, everyone in the country has to be able to decide, have to know what you are serving, because a yes or no is heard, have to be contained, have to be able to decide so many causes that it would start to explain to them, and have to start to explain this campaign, explain what will happen and how the lawsuits are going to unfold. Because we have to start building in position and to put it on the side it was a campaign now and now it is a ban that we have here today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.182.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. The words of Ms. Anna Caula, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.183.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. You speak of 'duplicities', as the euphemism of 'ours'. How that there are thoughts that do not please those that fans ask us to eliminate them. And to justify it, they point to the anti-administrative demagogy. The problem isn't the public investment in these things and activities that they describe in this movement; the problem, for you, is self-government. That's what makes them allergy, it's the ability to decide on Catalans and Catalans that they don't support. And that's why they've taken over the Government of the Generality's organization chart, and with that function of the Word, they've done: looking for self-government and eliminating. I clap. That's the reality. Then they have to wear it, and that's why they talk to us about being safe and duplicitous. Do you want to talk about duplicities? Do they want us to give them clues of what they can remove to get rid of in duplicate, and therefore in public resources? Start to eliminate the Ministry of Culture: the competitions are held by the autonomous communities and, even so, we maintain a ministry that costs 800_million euros. Can you imagine how we would strengthen our cultures? We're also talking about the Ministry of Health, a place where we also have all the assignments. And, in change, we have to pay the proportional share of a superstructure that doesn't give us any service and that costs more than 4,000_million euros. Do you want to spare resources? Really? So, we're talking about the Ministry of Defense. We are talking, formally, more than €5,800_million; formally, because reality is much more. The reality is that if we take into account the deviations and military parties stored in other areas, this figure is likely to be double or triple. You want more, extra expenses? They can be fixed, therefore, on the diplomatic expenditure. The Spanish Embassy in Tokyo spent EUR 293,000 on antiques and artworks, or the EUR 40,000 captif announced yesterday. I'll follow you, I'll follow you. Most of the citizens of this country want to change the political status of Catalonia. The majority, supporters of independence; but even more so, it is the opinion that it is necessary to increase self-government. So, then, deepening the analysis of lives to increase the self-government of our country is not only necessary, but, given the surveys, it is an obligation; an obligation that we will make through Parliament, of course, but also from the government, because the substrate of all this, even though there are many who do not want to listen, is working to imagine and get a better country. We don't want to make the same mistakes or reproduce the same models. We want to be clever and intelligent, intellectually and emotionally, for not having left a single option to analyze, to study, to value, to find answers and to make our institutions modern, agile, democratic, equitable and, above all, open and without change, to evolution, thus reinforcing everything that has done great to the people of Catalonia. We want laws and living constitutions that evolve as we evolve and our society evolves. And that's why we need all these instruments that you want to suppress, more than anything else, in order to continue drawing our future. These self-governing structures must also serve us to manage the while, detecting, analyzing and following up all those actions that you, from the Government of the State, end up with. We defend these structures to preserve our self-government, because one thing we are clear about is that we are running away from immobilism, from "it's done so because it's always done so. I didn't really visit the Girona Cinema Museum with my seven-year-old neboda, and they don't know what made me sweat because I understood that it was a camera to take pictures in a room where the evolution of these machines is collected. She didn't understand that before to take a picture it was necessary to use a stretch that forced you to look for a small hole, and that inside it had a cart that until you had finished it you could not bring it to reveal, that, made and smoked, you could take god, fifteen days to see the photos. If you finished the cart, which was worth a lot of calerons and it wasn't a question of misresources, and not always, once revealed, we all remember, it was what you expected. She was listening to me carefully and I was trying to do it. But at one point he looked at me and said, "Little girl, isn't it easier to take a picture with the mobile? And here's what we want to do, because the company we want to have is today's, with the current needs of the 21st century, and not expecting the revelation of a 1978 road. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.184.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Caula. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.185.0	Okay. First of all, explain why our group has not accepted certain items. Mr Pedret, Socialist Party, the truth is that I never imagined that I was going to tell you that you have taken the worst face of conservatism. That is: "We are not going to withdraw these institutions because they have been in existence for a long time. You tell me: "Well, you can talk about a lot of things. One can even study things that..., certain issues that are or are not included within the Statute of autonomy. But I ask you... You tell me: "You can talk about federalism, small notions in a world that becomes great, a geographical view of the independence, justice and legality of secession towards a current interpretation of the right to self-determination. Do you still have doubts that these are instruments that are simply what the independenceists themselves say, the coordinators of disconnection? Do you still have doubts, the PSC, that the only thing these institutions serve is to disconnect the Catalans from each other and the Catalans from the rest of the Spanish? Do you still have doubts? With regard to Ciutadans, we did not accept the amendments, Mr Carrizosa, we explained yesterday, but I want to make it clear, because in the end knowing what they have done during this time, which we already know – which we already know – is not that we suspect it, it is that we also know it, and trying to find out how many resources have been allocated has proved impossible in the past, and what we consider with this motion is that they do not need to go back to the Committee on Institutional Affairs to lie to us. We don't want them to lie to us again. As we already know what we have proposed is something far more practical: stop squandering public resources, stop pedagogy of separation and deconstruction and start building, strengthening and not endangering that self-government that allows us our autonomy. That is why we have not accepted those amendments, that is why. To Mr.Rabell I would say one question: look, every government is organized as it pleases, but, of course, governments have a democratic framework that are the rules of coexistence, and that has to be respected, and with those institutions it is not done. And one last question – I know the president is going to draw my attention to me, but I think it is important –: Mrs Caula, I would ask you, please, to keep an eye on the words you say, because you are as Catalan as we are, at least. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.186.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. We're calling it a vote. Why ask me the word, Mr. Pedret?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.187.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.188.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.189.0	Thank you, President. Doubt, not one; this group has not had any problem with exercising the criticism that has to be exercised since this Parliament, both in reports of the Council Counsellor for the National Transition, and in the performance of Mr. Liver Pi-Sunyer. But it seems to us that if we were to close all and each of the things that deserve to be critical of what we're here, we'd probably find ourselves a few milliseconds after the big bang. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.190.0	Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.191.0	Briefly and in relation to the statements made by Mr. Pedret. It's like acclamation, I think it's necessary. Mr. Pedret, we're not asking for the lockdown...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.192.0	You must want the word for contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.193.0	So, for contradictions. Does that sound like it? [[Pause.]] Okay. Mr. Pedret, we're not asking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.194.0	No, I don't think so: the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.195.0	...we are not asking for the closure of the Institute of Self-Government Studies, but the rest of the bodies. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.196.0	We will vote for the motion on the Institute of Self-Government Studies. There was no separate vote; therefore, we vote for the whole motion. The vote begins. The motion on the Institute of Self-Government Studies was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the question to the Government about feminisms]] [[302-000101/11]] The new point of the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government about feminisms, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Mrs. Anna Gabriel. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.197.0	Okay. Very nice late. If you remember, because a few days ago, we had a question about feminism and we gave it to you at a time when, with feminism, there are not many and many types of women, and that we were more likely to talk about feminism with a long look and taking into account all the traditions, not only theoretic, but also militants, and at that time we also said that we had a sort of theme on which to focus because it is impossible, if not, with the brief interventions we have in plenary, to do it in another way. We have, therefore, a young man who is consistent with that question and who, therefore, does not take a long look at feminisms; I would say that it is not even a young man who will radically change the life of women, in absolute, we prefer to be humble and honest in this sense: we will not subvert the patriarchal order, which no one is spooked, to whom they have gone, you can tell them in this sense. Don't worry, the patriarchate will stay alive until we approve of this young man. Nor is it that we present a battery of proposals that affect all institutional elements that have responsibilities and that could act as a feminist key, let us not, for example, touch municipalism. Say another way, let's go at least, let's go at least. And it's that the object was sooner. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Or we could say that there were two objectives in this motion: the first, to give up the compromise that is being increased to what we have already approved, because I believe that we are all aware that, from the law, there are only approved proposals, there is, and that of the motions, we have not approved, and therefore, to give up a compromise of implementation of what we already have in some way approved; and, of the other, to achieve a few compromises, but those that we managed to achieve were firm and that, therefore, we also wandered into the time when we wanted to implement them. In this sort of necessity that we have already done in the inquiry, we spoke of making visible and of not making more invisible the feminist militants, because very unfairly, above all the women who have been at the forefront, who have been at the forefront in the defense of gender equality, are invisible because in the land of the expert or of professionalism are always the great oblivions. We also have a focus on the feminist economy, and in this sense, we also have some measures. And, thirdly, we wanted to talk about male-based violence, and male-based violence not only focused on feminicides, which is the most violent expression, surely, to which we all dedicate it, so the little that we have as a feminist among us as minutes of silence, but we wanted to address also more symbolic violence, and the violence that still exercises over our bodies, concretely when we speak of avortament, of voluntary interruption of pregnancy. It is basically about these three focuses that the motion and the proposals, therefore, we have done in this sense. All parliamentary groups have made statements. And, in fact, all of them we've been able to work on, I think it's a good thing. Therefore, you have little sense that I dissipate the initial intervention of the motion relating to the items because the item has felt as the items have been basically incorporated all the items. Then, if you'll excuse me, I'll refer to more detention. In any case, let us know that we want to compromise that we deploy and implement definitively Law 17/2015, that we have already approved it and that, if we implement it in its conjunction, we do believe that there would be substantial improvements in the lives of women. We also bet that in the Observatori d'Igualtat de Genère, which at this time is in public display, there is an effective line of work on the principles of the feminist economy. There may be people who work to visualize that there is an alternative to patriarchal capitalism that would target us at higher quotas of dignity in women. In this sense, we also bet why the annual weather usage report is incorporated, huh? , and, therefore, an analysis of the distribution of household duties in the economic quantification of unpaid work in Catalonia. We are also talking about the impact of genera on the assumptions of the Generalitat. We also ask for a compromise that in two months there is a proposal for an institutional campaign against male violence, and another one that goes on, therefore, to combat a difficult gap that we have, especially in the adolescent population, that very much ignores what can happen to their bodies if they become pregnant, especially if it is not desired. The Association of Family Planning in Catalonia and Balears warned us of the great ignorance that young people have, and that they should do something about it. In this sense, we also make a suggestion to the ICS, that with a small modification of an internal circular we can also improve the rights of women. And we propose a relatively innovative thing but that in our understanding it is absolutely essential, that it is the observer of the masclistic violèncias of the Catalan Countries. Now we have to bury femicide. net , which was a militant initiative that gave light to the feminicides that existed in the Spanish State, we propose that you follow the institutions of the territories of our country that pushed this observatory of rapes to the side of the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.198.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.199.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, you sure know the Esop fault called Mons Parturiens. For the deputies who have not studied the batsillary that had the whip, like me, I translate them into the title: The part of the mountains. Says the fault that the mountains shouted, and wailed, and thundered, because they were on their side, and everyone was landed. Tothom thought: "What will the mountain bet? And the mountain, when it went away, let go of a mouse. Why do I explain this fault to you? To establish a comparison between the inquiry made by Congresswoman Anna Gabriel and her deputy. Actually, she just said it herself with other words. He said it today, he didn't say it the other day, but it's true; we were saved from doing a master lesson in feminism, as he did, but after the consequence was a mouse. Welcome to the mouse, but, poor beast, you will have to work to bring equality between women and men to our country. That's why we've proposed different ideas. The first one. We consider that the line of work proposed in item 2a, which refers to the Observer of Igualtat de Genère, must be a clear mandate. And so whether to collect it, or to regulate it, where it is preceptive and binding. It is to say, in the creation decree and function of the same Equality Observers. The removal of this decree contained a structure of very basic functions. The participatory process that ended the ICD on November 2nd with women's entities enriched beyond the time of healing and the jobs reproduced these functions. However, we still do not know the final outcome of the Government's proposal for the creation of the observer. This is where we're headed. The following point refers to the need to establish as a function of the observer the obligation to inform on the compliment of the obligations attributed to the Government for Law 17/2015, especially in relation to the gender impact of the assumptions of the Generality. The same government that skips the law of equality when it does not prepare the Gender Impact Report of the assumptions we ask it to oblige itself, by decree, to be taxed and to inform the citizen of the incompliments. We need to defend the legal instruments and the legal framework of which we have been endowed. It is unwarranted that the equality in Catalonia is left in the calaix, and it is unwarranted that the failure of the respective laws does not have any cost to the Government. Looks like it's serious. Another point that we are asking is that the Gender Equality Observers are equipped with a line of presupposition and sufficient technical resources to ensure, first of all, that the functions provided by the entities will be stimulated – as explained earlier with this participatory process of drafting the decree – and also to ensure that the technical staff of the Administration of the Generality attached to the Observers, which already seems to be a source piece. We already told the councilwoman in an appearance. What concerns us about the observer is not only if he offers reports and work on the feminist economy. That's it, but also more than that. We are concerned whether or not the observer will be a tool of public service aimed at improving the planning of public policies of gender, whether it will be useful to improve the cross-cutting work that policies of equality must have on all councils, whether the inequalities and discriminations generated by the patriarchal organization of our society will be visible. We are also concerned about the design of the observer and that the CUP, allied with the Government, has intervened a little. Can anyone explain to us what the management model will be? Do you want to outsource studies and research? Will it be a public body with the highest authority in the Administration of the Generality to publish and make public all the own data? And if so, who is he thinking of doing these public charges? In any case, the strategic lines of work that fall to improve equality in Catalonia are many. That is why we propose that parliamentary agreements should be a mandatory compliment to the Government. Finally, we have also called for the incorporation of working groups of the National Council of Women, because it is a representative organ of the women's entities in Catalonia, despite the fact that it is in a moment of low participatory intensity, as the Catalan Institute of Women has little impulse. But it is necessary to make the recognition of the work that the organizations do to maintain an area of institutional relationship and influence on the public policies of the Generality. Our papers have all been accepted, except for the fifth point, and we appreciate the CUP's willingness to agree. We shall vote in favour, except in the fifth place, in which we shall abstain. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.200.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Group, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.201.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies and deputies, today it is divided that this government approved a law, a very important law, a law that they did not impose on us. All the contrary: it was approved for this Parliament with a large majority of this chamber. And, obviously, I speak of the Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men. Yesterday, a year and a half later, we find ourselves with a motion from the Parliamentary Group of the CUP asking the government to make the statutory deployment of the law. Members and Members, we have asked each committee, various plenary sessions, various motions, various motions for resolutions, various questions. And, in fact, we will never tire of asking this government and its partners to decide to deploy all of this law at once. « Do you share the sounds of something? Don't be mistaken, don't think about other things. _Measures without making the statutory disclosure of the law. The motion we are debating today talks, among other things, about incorporating a strategic line of work linked to the principles of feminist autonomy; also about making an annual report on the use of time so as to be able to define public policies that address the sexual division of work to Catalan llars, or about making a monographic session with the Catalan Institute of Women where the parliamentary groups and feminist organizations are represented. Of course, speaking of the uses of time, you are talking about drawing up an annual report on the use of time so that you can define, as I said, public policies that address the sexual division of labour in Catalan countries. The truth is, it's a very interesting proposal. Above all, thinking of the thousands of seas that are left at home taking care of their children because they cannot be allowed to take them to school in Bressol; above all, remembering that this government, to which you support, does not allocate a single euro to the stage from zero to three years. The young woman, once again, asks that the requests be completed within two months. I'd like this government to be able to complete it, but on the day of the visit, I don't have much hope for it. But I would like to stop at a point of the motion that we can think about and surely carry on: it is demanded that you make an institutional campaign of information about the interruption of the pregnancy. The Socialist Parliamentary Group has put forward some considerations on this point, because we understand that the institutional campaigns on this issue are very important, but it is also the fact that the data corresponding to 2016 of the Report on the Voluntary Interruption of the Embarrassment of Catalonia, prepared for the Health Department, are updated. I think it is necessary to make a parenthesis on this subject: the interruption of pregnancy in minors. We would like to know the details of all the cases in which consent was requested by writing, and I would like to emphasize, by writing, of both parents when the interruption of a minor's pregnancy occurred. And I'd also like to know why this government asks for the consent of both parents when there's a law that doesn't exactly ask for it. For this reason, today, from this Faristol, we claim that the internal instruction of the ICS is modified – as long as there is no Councillor of Salut, I hope the Councillor will let you know – that she precisely asks for the double consent of the parents. I like that the CUP has stressed this issue, because it is a theme that the Socialist Group has made. So I'm happy. And I wouldn't like to get any wider. Just say that we will give support to the entire young man, and we will wait to see the compliment that the Government will make, and its partners, of this young man, whom I hope we approve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.202.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moreta. Next, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word the lady Natalia Figueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.203.0	Thank you, President. At first, we also appreciate the presence of the President's Counsellor and the President of the Catalan Institute of Women, together with the Director of the same institution, and we continue to thank all Members that once more in this House we continue to speak and work on the subject of women, on the subject of equality and on the subject of violence. The vast majority of us, and certainly of this chamber, must agree that it is not a great step, that it is a step of continuity, that it is insisting, that it is being there and that it is continuing to work because that does not happen. Surely, the government has an important part, there is a power to be able to execute it and to be able to work it. But that's everybody's job. And this Parliament also has this job, and the Members and Members are responsible for the fact that equality can be truly effective and that we can end up applying all these policies that, on many occasions, we defend, explain and in fact flag. In relation to the young man, it is certain that in the vast majority of points already worked, they have come out in different commissions. The issue of continuing to develop the Law 17/2015, of equality..., in which it has already developed the decree that regulates the Observer of Gender Equality, a decree that obviously includes all the functions that it will have to have, that will not be few, and that will allow us to be an instrument with which entities can also participate and is given to many areas in which the date of today is done more privately, without having an element. We will continue – and we will continue because it is already done, certainly not enough, but as much as we can – with the projects and proposals that are presented, with the campaigns to combat this inequality, with the fact that we try to provide presuppositionally many of these parts in the measure that we can, because there is no such inequality. It's not just in the workplace, it's mostly family. Let's talk about family responsibilities; let's talk about co-responsibility because there is the same opportunity for the woman and the man in this sense; let's start introducing vocabulary that is not only strictly feminist, but also to bring it in, enter it, this figure of the man. It is important that we also do so, because, as has been said here, all feminisms have a common point; they are different, but they have a common point, which is fighting for this inequality. The young lady, surely, partly detailed herself in some committee, we have worked on it. But, like Grupo de Juntes per el Si, we have to make reference to the subject of the terms, because it is very easy to go out to the hemicicle and criticize that we do not complete the terms. But on the subject of terms, they work. The vast majority are just. Therefore, we have acquired the commitment to make these reports and this proposal, but we are talking about a few terms with which... in two months, in two months, it is just to make all these points. But the will is there, the winnings are there, the instruments too. And, therefore, surely, we will give it a compliment, because it is a necessity, and it is not only a strictly part of the Catalan Institute of Donations. In this case, we're talking about equality. Equality does not understand politics, it does not understand age, it does not understand religion, it does not understand origins. But surely at some point it seems that we all find ourselves in a false sense of comfort, that justice will prevail and that everything will end up winning; that we are aware, we talk about it, but that we know that today we have not yet won, that while there is a high percentage of people who suffer discrimination, who suffer an abuse... well, or that they are abused in a psychological or physical way, that they do not have the same opportunities, we have no doubt that we can have the impact that we can have, as we speak, on teaching, on working with a mouse, surely this grain of suspense is worth it, and it is one thing that we have to do among all and that we can not only carry responsibility to the government, but that we are working with a mouse, and that is to be in the name of the government, if it is not in the name of the government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.204.0	Thank you, Mrs. Figueras. Then, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word "Mrs. Noemí de la Calle".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.205.0	Thank you, President. The numbers of murdered women are really terrifying, and the other violence, the silent, the one that does not jump into the media, is also terrible, and, although social consciousness has increased in recent years, deaths do not cease. That is why a state pact against gender-based violence has been called for from all political parties, and we are pleased that it was the first unanimous agreement of this legislature in the Congress of Deputies. However, to put an end to gender-based violence, a pact is not enough; it is not enough either to approve motions that the Government does not comply with, because the real struggle is to combat the causes of inequality between men and women. We still do not achieve parity in any area of life, the wage gap increases with the crisis, women's unemployment has aberrant rates, let alone job insecurity. Co-responsibility and conciliation seem a utopia, and we are seeing how the feminization of poverty increases. That is why the adoption of equality laws and the signing of pacts against gender-based violence should not cause us to relax and forget the structural and profound reasons behind them. I would like to thank Congresswoman Anna Gabriel who added to her motion the implementation of a motion for a resolution by the citizens urging this Government to deploy the regulation of the Equality Act, and also her willingness to negotiate to include in the design of an institutional campaign social entities, psychologists and health and educational professionals in direct relation to the sexual and reproductive health of Catalan women. Every effort should be made to build on the consensus needed to take action on women's rights. And, in the interests of that consensus, which often exists on issues of equality and combating gender-based violence, we do not understand the amendment to the whole proposed by Junts pel Si to a proposal for a citizens' law that proposes a tool for further support to the Programme for the Protection and Care of Victims of Gender-Based Violence, which has been proved to be truly effective where it has been implemented and implemented, at the therapeutic level and as a measure of protection; a proposal for a law that does not necessarily require budget allocation and that really includes the right of a victim to be able to use such protection in all aspects of his life. They are still in time to withdraw that amendment in its entirety. There is an amendment that we have not been able to compromise, and although I acknowledge that I expected it, we regret it, which speaks of the observatories of the Machist violence in the Catalan Countries. Because the struggle for the emancipation of women and the fight against gender-based violence, we understand that it is a global struggle that requires the commitment of the whole of humanity, because it is a human rights issue; it requires the twinning of people around increasingly inclusive projects, and under no circumstances should they border the fight against violence against women. The dignity, rights and life of an Aragonese, Murcian or Leonese woman are worth the same as those of a Catalan or Valencian woman, and we believe that promoting coordinated actions among all communities is better than doing only among three of them. Finally, Mrs Gabriel spoke in her question of an integral plan at the media level, and we are therefore grateful that our amendment has been accepted to ensure that the contents of the public media are taken into account. We have to be very careful to avoid misinterpretation or frivolization. This Sunday many of us were shocked when the president was asked about the violent aggression suffered by women who were in a tent asking for screens to be installed so that they could see a party of the Spanish team. These women were beaten; there is not only a police attestation and a part of injuries, but anyone can see it, because there is a video. The president's answer was literally: « Jo..., it seemed to me that you, who was now worried about the violence, is really worried about the violence of truth. Yesterday two people died in Lleida, shooting for criminal violence, when they were doing their job. This is the rape we're worried about. And he later reduced the violence against these women to an anecdote. I am sure that Mr Puigdemont in no case wanted to diminish the importance of a case of violence against women or women, but we have to be very careful, although I fear he would have condemned that violence if the victims had not worn a bracelet from Spain. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse.]] The violence those women suffered is also criminal violence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.206.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.207.0	...it's also criminal violence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.208.0	Quiet, and please. Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.209.0	A verbal assault, a contempt, is also violence. And we all have to be careful, especially on public television. In the past Plenary, Anna Gabriel finished her speech by quoting Cheris Kramarae when she said that feminism is the radical notion that women are human beings. I would like to finish mine by quoting Rebecca West: "I have never been able to find out exactly what feminism is. All I know is that people call me a feminist when I express feelings that make me different from a sweatshirt. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.210.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. The words of Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.211.0	Thank you, President, Vice-Presidents. Well, at the time of preparing this young man, I came to the head of the intervention, the young man in the past Ple of the socialist deputy Marta Moreta on gender violence, in which the deputy of the UPC was tossed over her because in meetings governed by the Socialist Party, therefore, there are workshops aimed at women, workshops on women's salvation, hygiene and emotions, on the care of minors and the elaboration of recipes for cooking, etc. I was also accused of making a racist speech that I will, of course, do again today, in order to defend the equal rights of women who violate part of Muslim culture. So we're starting from the premise that the CUP only defends the woman, the defense of this feminism when it suits her, and when it doesn't, then, ridicule, right? ; when it comes to other groups, this feminism is ridiculed by the CUP. Well, I think even though we're here, so you can accuse yourself of not being feminists, of being women who want the best for us, the equality between men, and, therefore, no one can argue about it. That the most radical left is meant to appropriate this defense of the woman and her dignity, on the same height as the man, sense of doubt, I say that this moral superiority at the time of giving lessons of femininity and femininism does not help us at the time of lawmaking for the good of all. Some, some believe that they are feminist because of the fact that the male sex is lstracted into female. Miri, for you it will be very important or it will be determining that the article « serves you to define us all; for me it does not have the least importance. Others are convinced that the real feminism right in the right to decide about the property, is to say, to avort, proposing institutional campaigns. And what about the women who base part of our femininity on being mothers? Why don't your group present or propose motherhood support campaigns, or give support to some campaigns that we have presented? As for the labor issue, obviously we want the same pay, and we demand it, and the same opportunities; it's obvious, right? But we don't believe in this ideological speech failure that seeks to define public policies that address the sexual division of labour in the Catalan world. I'm sorry, but at home we make decisions, and the Administration, as far as I can, is better. I deeply resent this species of resentment and competitiveness of what some women do when it comes to this subject. Look, Mrs. Gabriel, four-child son-in-law by her own decision, and there's been some time I've been home, it's to say that I've tried the two options, and in case I see that one is out of the way of the other. There are many women who have decided to take care of their family, who are more satisfying than developing a working life. So I fully understand that most of our lives and our kisses are the full-bodied ones to stay home and take care of their children. It is a question of freedom – it is a question of freedom – that the woman is not subjected to pressures and decisions that can undermine her aspirations. And in this sense, as you know, Mrs. Gabriel, we have presented a statement that refers to something you never talk about: the use of certain clothes that directly tempt against the woman. Because talking about the burca or talking about the nicab can – never – be associated with the word "freedom". A point which you have rejected and which follows: "The Catalonian Parliament urges the Government to promote measures and actions to work against discrimination against immigrant women, regulating the prohibition of the burca and nicab both in public buildings and in the street. Miri, the European Court gave support to the French law banning burque in public spaces. The same Morocco – the same Morocco – this month of generation has declared war on the burque prohibiting its elaboration. He probably did it for a security issue, but it's that the women's associations there are celebrating it, and we're talking about Morocco. Well, I'm sorry, but I see so much hypocrisy in his speech, so much kindness for seconds, and so much can and intolerant in other questions, that it's hard to support it. And I coincide in that I gave a Tertullian recognizance... certainly not holy of my devotion, but that I gave the following: "It does not cease to be grotesque that the very ones who practice an inconceivable tolerance with Islamic feudal masculinism follow those who have historically raised the flag of feminism. And only a small thing to the government: regret the lack of parity that was at the Brussels conference, where at the end where the speech was made there were seven men and not one woman. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.212.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.213.0	Well, thank you all very much. I'll run a little by order and fast, forced. To the Catalonian company Yes, it's possible, it's true, we started out with what purpose this young man had; I fixed it up, even when we bet mice we're honest and we warn that we bet mice, huh? Don't you ever fool us. And, therefore, it is true that we were going to set very concrete, very tangible priorities, and see if we could implement them. You were also free to make notes of the fall of the lioness, so to speak. Neither have they chosen this way; correct. I think if we get what we've put together today, we'll give ourselves up for satisfaction. Because, more than that, and I connect with Juntes' intervention for the Yes..., which has perhaps been one of the most tense points, the terms. So, yes, in the end we managed to understand that with two months there was enough time to present the proposals we have placed ourselves, to make the studies, to incorporate the vision of the feminist economy, etc. And, therefore, in this sense it is also positive the level of understanding. I just want to say one thing, so it's not a point of continuity, is it? I think that's a point of inflection. To the Law of Equality, if you pass it on, there appear twice the word "feminism: one in the preamble, one in the articulation. I think we're moving forward if we give visibility to feminism, which is also what this young man does. To the company of Ciutadans and in relation to the border, you know that for us the Catalan Countries is our birth. I believe that when you, in the principle of your intervention, allege the National Pact against Gender Violence, which I imagine is state – you have not done it with France, with Portugal, with Italy – it is not because you say that the Italians or the French or the Portuguese do not want their lives, because this is your national mark. Ours is the Catalan Country, and it has nothing to do with bordering. To the representative of the People's Party would have so many things to say to her that obviously I don't have time, but I'll say one – I'll say one. The phrase "at home, the Administration, as far as I know, has told me a lot of men in all the years I've worked for social workers trying to fight gender-based violence. Sometimes the men have turned us, some feminists, out of their homes. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.214.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Figueras, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.215.0	For direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.216.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.217.0	Madam Naomi, first of all, I would ask you to apologize for what you have just said about the President. I told you, we're working on it. The issue of equality, the issue of women, the issue of condemning violence does not form part of demagogic discourses, it is a fact that we must assume all and each of the Members who are here and of the people who are in government. Therefore, we would be grateful if you would withdraw what you said with respect to the President because you know that it is not true.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.218.0	Mrs. Lienas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.219.0	We would like a separate vote on the fifth point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.220.0	Point...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.221.0	Point five; number five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.222.0	Five, thank you. Mrs. De la Calle, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.223.0	Says MP Nattalia Figueras, who... what I said about President Puigdemont is not true. I have read textual words, the reading has been literal and if you want..., comments that there is no need to demagogue with these kinds of issues; withdraw the amendment to the whole of our proposed law. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.224.0	We're calling it a vote. Only a separate vote was requested from the five-point vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, let's wait, Mrs. Xandri. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word? [[Pause.]] Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.225.0	Separate vote: 3a, 3.b, 4 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.226.0	Well, a separate vote from points 3a, 3.b, 4, 5 and 7 has been requested. Okay? Can some of these be voted together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, All right, then. Let's start the vote. We're voting point three. The vote begins. Point 3.a_has been approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 3.b. The vote begins. The 3.b_point was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. I hope that on the 4, 5 and 7 will not be the same, because, if not, we will vote them together. [[Rialles.]] Point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 132 votes to none, with no abstentions. Can you vote together on the 5th and 7th? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? We're voting point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 73 votes to 11, with 49 abstentions. And then we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 133 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on feminism was approved by 122 votes to 11, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into public transport and sustainable mobility]] [[302-0002/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on public transport and sustainable mobility, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas. [[Pause.]] When you're ready, Mr. Bloods.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.227.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, in any case, the result of the debate that we had already held fifteen days ago in this plenary, in which, let us say, from the Group of Joints for the Yes, we exposed a series of complaints, we wanted to put in full some things that were going on since the Administration of the State respect in particular the area of motorways, of the radials of Madrid. We prepared this inquiry, and therefore this was one of the elements that seemed to us..., which included the calibre. Other areas in which we took advantage of that inquiry and asked the Government what was its position on a follow-up of issues was the whole issue of investments in the field of railway infrastructure, which the Government of the Generality had done in the field of Railways of the Generality of Catalonia, in contrast to what the Government of the State did not respect the areas that were of its competence. We also took advantage of the lack of input from the Government of the State in the field of public transport, in which it was clear that the contribution of the Government, the contribution of the Generality and the other Catalan administrations went up, and, in change, the contributions of the Government of the State were at the bottom. We understand, in this area of the State's contributions to public transport, that the system with which the Government is working, of T-Mobility, provides for a system of expansion of the current framework of the seven regional councils, which is today available, financed through, let's say, the scope of the contributions that the public transport of Catalonia by the State, we supply, the female growing up to thirteen local areas, and providing a population of more than 5 million people. And this is the model in which we seem to be going very rarely, to this T-Mobility, which must allow us to work with equality throughout the country, regardless of where we are. It is in this area that we claim and take advantage of this motion to ask the State to provide the 108_millions needed to complement the contributions and to avoid the system's deficiency. And more so, the ones we're claiming too, this money to be able to make up for the contributions that the state government hasn't made in previous years and that it seems to us that it's important that you do. In another line of things we pointed out, and we put in replete, just as we put in, and could not be in any other way, in this young man, where we claimed from the Government of the State, the constant incompliments on the part of the Government of the State, the famous Pla de rollies, that famous flat of 4,000_million euros that the Government of the State had to do so much... Normally, when elections are held in this country, the Minister of Development or the Minister of Development appears to return and announce miraculous investments that are not later made. And, therefore, what we are asking for, in this motion, further on, let's say, of these 4,000_million euros for the 2008-2015 roundtable, and the 306_million euros that have been provided or is said to be done for a plan that was called urgently and that has only ended up applying, executing a 5_per_cent, what we do in this motion is to claim that all these resources are transferred to the Government of the Generality. We understand that if the Government of the State has been unable until the time of carrying out these assumptions, the best it can do is to pass these amounts to the Government of the Generality to carry out the follow-up of the works that were planned there. In our young man we point out some of the works, they are not the totality, but it seems worth highlighting some of them. Especially – and we want to do this – on the subject of being able to adapt the 100_per_cent of the stations to people of reduced mobility, which seems to us to be a complaint from the whole society and which, therefore, seems to be important as one of the first proposals. And, finally, what we claim in our young man, a third point, is that of the Madrid radio motorways. This scandal of masculinity in which, with some motorways that were already known to have no type of economic return, the Government of the State tries to make some motorways at the expense of some motorways that are already free. Therefore, he didn't want to be an Einstein of mathematicians to see that this would not have a happy ending for public finances and that this would end up having a cost. Therefore, what we are doing, the proposal we are making in this House, that we hope that we will find the support of the rest of the parliamentary groups, is to ask – surely innocently, because the Government of the State already knows how it works – that public resources will not be provided for the rescue of these motorways, as we believe that it is no longer a situation of malaise, but a situation of continued fraud against the citizen. And on the next occasion, I will comment on the points made by the rest of the parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.228.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.229.0	Thank you, President. Adviser, Members, Members, the Socialist Group has presented two points in this motion, which have already been the announcements that have not been very successful among the proposing group and that, therefore, have not been accepted. I'll do what I can to justify them. The first is that it refers to requiring the Government of the State to make repeated incompliments in the matter of reversal. We agree with the principle, we believe that these investments are absolutely necessary. In fact, Mr. Sanglas was talking about the famous Pla de rolalies, which was..., the best of rolalies, which was a plan that was to start in 2010, end in 2015, was to compromise 4,000_million of those who have executed approximately 13_per_cent. From this 13_per_cent, a 10_per_cent was in the late year of Mr. Rodriguez Zapatero's government, these 400_millions, huh? So, when we talk about the government of the state, we'd have to be capons, too, to differentiate the sign of the government of the state, because it's not the same one as the other. We, the thought we proposed, at the heart of the current parliamentary arithmetic, was to demand the compliment of these compromised investments and to demand from the current government of the State, of the People's Party, that in the general assumptions of the State, from 2017 until 2020, it is compromising these investments. And even in some other intervention that I have made respect for some of the requests that the councillor has made about the rolls, you can find the formulas because these investments can be made by the Government of the Generality. To other countries with federal structure, such as Germany or Austria, on the subject we are talking about railway investments, what is done is to entrust the management to the governments, the Länder, or the regional governments in Austria, and, therefore, formulas for who executes these investments following the Government of the Generality can be found. Therefore, to this demand that all resources be transferred, making this list of investments that it would be useful to do – I suppose it also obeys this pre-election period that I think we are opening – so, we, Mr. Bloods, already know, cannot give support. We don't deny it either, do we? We will abstain at this point, because we do believe that these investments are necessary for infrastructure in Catalonia. We will also give support to demand that the Government of the State assume more commitment to public transportation. In fact, the Catalan administrations, the Government of the Generality at the front, but also the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, are putting more economic resources to finance public transport. And here the Government of the State, the Government of the People's Party, has taken a step back, huh? Therefore, it is necessary to require that you make a similar contribution to the Catalan administrations. With regard to rescuing radial highways with public money, we will also support it. We..., we don't, because our sphere of action, that of the Socialist Party of Catalonia is Catalonia; but the Socialist Party Obrer Espanyol in Madrid also opposed, at its time, the construction of these radial motorways, these eight motorways, because it is already seen that they were badly planned and that this would end badly, as it has ended. What I'm saying is that the solution that ends up finding what can't be is that I'm going over the extension of concessions to where the state is still competitive, too, huh? They can imagine what I'm talking about. To see if now to find a solution in Madrid, someone occurs, despite the declarations that have been made, to increase the concessions of the motorways to Catalonia or in other areas..., or to the Valencia Country, of those motorways that are competence of the State. We'll object, if that's what you want to do. And we had presented a third theme that is the need to build a third tunnel in the city of Barcelona. And we won't do the same thing that Republican Left or Convergence and Union did, the year 2008, when we were talking about the high-speed train tunnel, which introduced a few doses of concern to the citizenry. To Councilman Rull, I have already explained: we will give him support; now, I would only need that from the first list that you present is able to do the works and that after that we do not have the third tunnel, from north to south, to the city of Barcelona, because we would not improve the frequencies, nor would we improve the safety of the rolling stock or the regional ones in Catalonia. And, listen, I think here it is a responsibility of the Government of the Government of Catalonia and of the groups that are supporting it to start this debate. The more we delay, the worse it will be to improve the rail transport of rolling stock and regionals to our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.230.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Then, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.231.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, this motion contains some claims that I am convinced that Mr Sanglas knows that we agree with them. He talks about investments, some very necessary. I don't know if there will be anyone in this Chamber more eager to see the Vandellós variant work. It calls for funding, support from the Government of Spain for proximity transport, which we use every day. It's very necessary. And finally, it denounces that it is paid with public funds, with money from everyone, the rescue of ruinous concessions for which no responsibility has been demanded; it is a shame, of course. We agree on these claims, but we don't like the way. What is it to demand, when the negotiating chairs are being left empty? Neither do we like the victimistic background, nor the partisan use of these problems whenever there is occasion, nor the lack of loyalty, nor the feeding of confrontation. We don't agree with any of that. But not for you, but for all the Catalans who need it, we're going to leave our skins to get these demands where they have to go. And we're going to work tirelessly, if you want to join him, so that they can be solved. And it's not that we're going to work, it's that we're already working a lot. And we keep working every day. To those who have not yet done so, I recommend that you see the amendments that we have tabled, which have not been very successful either – there are several – you will see that to everything that is proposed here we have already presented solutions. And solutions, no opportunistic complaints. Some of them have also been tabled in this Parliament. Because there's a lot you can do from here and it doesn't depend on anyone else, and it's not being done: new trains, better schedules, better information to the traveler... Yes, it sounds to them. And other things, those that depend on the Government of Spain, we have proposed where they have to be proposed: in Congress. And we negotiated them there. Priority and management of infrastructure is one of the things that needs to be reformed in Spain; we have included it in the pact with which the Government was set up. And although the PP continues to maintain the unsustainable, that it has been doing well and that what it has to do is to remain the same, from now on it will no longer be possible, because it no longer has a majority and now it has to negotiate, it has to listen, it has to talk, even if it doesn't want to. There are policies to correct. And in Congress we are already making changes, with analysis, with knowledge of the problems, with figures, with data, with constructive intention, without acrid, and, above all, without populisms or trapping apriorisms. For here the first point is practically a pure apriorism: « Let me, let me arrange rollers. Look, I'm not saying they do everything wrong, they know perfectly well that I don't think so – we've worked a lot together – but there are facts that precede them, and the two main works, the Segarra-Garrigues channel i the 9_de_métro line leave many doubts. The solution for Catalonia's infrastructure is no new country; these two works were only in their hands and have had enough money and time to finish them. Enough money they have had, and they have spent everything they needed and more: more than 4,000_million overcosts recognized already; but we don't have watering, nor do we have a line 9 crossing Barcelona. And worst of all, we don't even know when we're gonna have it. And not why we didn't ask, no. But we have a counselor who, like the President, is more and more absent every day; absent from the negotiations and absent from the needs of the citizens. Because the minister has come and has not wanted to speak more than about the transfer, more than about the breakup. He said he doesn't want any new plans. He said he doesn't want anything, he doesn't want to talk. But, well, here you have asked for it, here you are demanding yourself; in this car you are demanding to demand, to demand the minister after he has already left. Stop talking to yourselves, because what needs to be done is to go to work and not stay home when they call you to meetings. I need to talk about highways. Anyway, let's demand, yeah. There is a lot to be demanded about highways – we have already done it in Congress –: to clear up responsibilities and to end this practice once and for all in which political favors end up paying them all for citizens' money. That can't be. It's enough to privatize profits and socialize losses. We totally agree. But here in Catalonia you also know a lot about that, to see how motorway concessions are extended – that the longest are those here, the autonomous ones– ; to see how good business, such as ATLL, is left in private hands; to see also how it is rescued – that here there are also rescues – with public money, such as the C-17, of which they speak little. They demand, of course, that we all together demand that everything be done well in the Government of Spain. But we also demand you to comply with the part that concerns you – and that is where our amendments came from, which have not been successful – because Catalans, all of them, deserve it, and because we are here for that. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.232.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.233.0	President... councillor, deputies... well, here the party that gives support to the government presents us with a typical motion of nationalist victimism. And within the victimist discourse, there is always investment in infrastructure. This is a top ten, isn't it? , of the independenceist nationalist message. But when they talk about public works and then transfer the necessary budgets to execute the public work of the State..., man, I too want that public work to be done. But you are not a reference for performing public works; your reference, at present, is the L9 – the L9 – with a horrific execution, with a brutal cost overrun and with a bad finish without fulfilling all the promises and expectations that had been proposed with the L9. Therefore, they are neither a referent nor anyone to give an example of how to perform public work. And they say, "There is little investment. I'm sure. I told him the other day, Mr. Counsellor: "It seems very little to us all. But little compared to what and compared to who? And I'll give you some data, which I gave you the other day, but you have to repeat them. In the first quarter of 2016, the state invested 71_per_cent more than the Generalitat in Catalonia. In the period 2011-2015, the Government of Spain invests a 41_per_cent more than the Government of the Generalitat. And if we go to 2016..., to 2015, 2006...– sorry –, to 2015, and with concrete data, the government invests more than 8,000_million_euros in Catalonia – a 63_per_cent of this is for Adif –, which is 18_per_cent of the state's total investment. Madrid, I told you, a 5.3. In what autonomous community does the State invest the most? In Catalonia. You will say: "It is budgeted. Because if it's budgeted, it means commitment. And, therefore, it can be claimed to be executed. And its execution, possibly, is one of the highest in the rest of the state. And, of course, they ask to do public work with the money of the central government, when here they have problems with Railways of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which used to be an example – it was an example – of service and now it is no longer. They have problems of connection between the Valleses; frequency problems with the Vallés line – and, moreover, important –; it is urgent to bury the lines of Can Feu, by Sabadell. Why do you not execute what is yours? Do the public work they have to do. And, if you want, let us all claim together to the State, to the Government of the State, the works you have to carry out. But this is not the way. And then, that's right, huh? We're going to Madrid. And they ask that the tolls of the Community of Madrid be not rescued. Which, by the way, is a legal issue – it is a legal issue. I know that you don't know much about legality, but the laws or the sentences... legality is to be respected. But, of course, you want us to say from Parliament that the Madriders pay tolls. That's called making friends – that's called making friends. Possibly this is to avoid and try, therefore, not to ask for the suppression of tolls in Catalonia. Listen, no, so what needs to be done is to support the government and at least congratulate us that by 2019 and 2021 the AP-7 and AP-2 will have no tolls. And, therefore, what is necessary is that the Government, the Government of the Generalitat – the Government of the Generalitat – can establish a timetable to know when the tolls that hang on you will disappear, because that, today, we do not know. I, to go on finalizing... Mr. Congressman, Mr. Councilman, Spain does not stifle anyone. Spain does not asphyxiate either the Generalitat or the Catalans. It is you who suffocate the Catalans with their continuous and false victimism, that all they do is paralyse the progress of Catalan society.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.234.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, to fix your position, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.235.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, we will support this young man following the inquiry, because it seems to us that everything that is asked is just, but I would like to make some comments. In the first place, I believe that the inquiry..., or the motion, more than is later referred to as public transport and mobility, should be told about the infrastructures and public transport services and mobility that the Government of the State has committed and has not implemented. Because here we only focus on those works that the Government of the State has compromises and has not realized, we do not talk about the other aspects of mobility and public transport that are in the hands of the Generality. And it seems to us..., in the first point is a list in which there is a lot; there are not all who are nor are all who are, it is true, could be more exhaustive. We also think that demanding the necessary quantities..., okay. For example, Mr Terrades, the Member of Parliament Terrades, with his own concern, made a proposal as to how this might be required. And I'd also like to be explained, as we have to demand. Because... well, we'll give it support. We, for example, in Madrid are already demanding, aren't we? Through the United Group we can, and I know that all forces support it. But how do we do it? Are we all going to Madrid? Shall we make a proposal for the law? How will they do that? Mr. Sanglas said, when he made the inquiry... he said that he could complain to the State Government that while we are still involved in public transport financing. Clearly, I'm also telling you: while we're still there, while we're at it, we need to make sure we negotiate. I don't know what level the negotiations are on. I don't know if they're meeting the bilaterals. I don't know if, apart from demanding, they also have a schedule of negotiations, of asseure's, as at the time did councilman Vila, for example, with the plan of the 306_millions. That's true, it didn't complete it. But I think while we're on it, we have to try. We must carry legitimacy, and therefore we must always be in this negotiating environment. From the list, from the list in point 1, man, there are some things that are also a little..., let's see, say that you can't demand what you don't do either. I agree with all the requests; but, for example, adapting the stations for people with reduced mobility to 100_per_cent, so to speak, man, us... In Catalonia, the department has adapted a 91_per_cent of the metro and railway network; we have a plan– explained the other day the secretary, Ricard Font – until 2020 to adapt what is left. Home, so, what we don't do, don't... I mean, there's a way to ask for things. Point 2. Point 2 is very important, because here, it is true, that has made the effort have followed the assemblies, the local world, the Metropolitan Area and the Generality. Because here we have seen that, in the last few years, of the 173_million euros that the State laid..., as it has been reduced. And, therefore, here is very important. And it's also because here we have the debt of the TMB, that we will all have to see as a debt that doesn't have the TMB because yes, just because of this bad financing and this lack of contributions... and that this has to be solved. So, we think it's a very important point. Clar, here..., the third point, isn't it? Totally agree, and I also very much welcome that the Group of Joints for the Yes..., Republican Left had always been on this line, but that the PDECAT is now coming to this line, because, precisely, it has not historically followed this position. I still remember the first rescue of the Spanish motorways, from the radials from Florentino to Madrid, therefore, which was thanks to a task, in the general assumptions, of Convergence and Union. So perfect. Listen, rectifying is savory. And I'm delighted that you're doing this turn, just like with the Eurovignette, because we haven't done the right thing here, we've also got rescued... some justified ones, huh? For example, I think the operation we want to do with the C-17 to take years and get rid of it, I think it's interesting. Therefore, here we all have to go to one, I think, to end this concessional model that privatizes the winnings, socializes the losers; we have to go to look at what happens to the management's responsibilities, which is poorly understood and we have to modify, because it ends up exempting the dealers from risk and business fortune. And, therefore, we must also go from all those infrastructures, to make this pact – that I know that Mrs. Marina Bravo has asked many times, and I think that it is necessary, and that it would resolve beyond the tunnel – to see what works are really the most necessary, as we publicly give support and have more social return. And respect the point, okay, but they'll explain to us how they want to do it. If it's about going to Madrid to ask, I'm counting on us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.236.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.237.0	All right, thank you, President. We will abstain from the three points of this motion, basically because we agree with what is at stake, and even with all the diagnosis of the problem that is presented here, but we do not agree with what is the way in which solutions are addressed or are intended to address this problem. Let's go see it. The first two points raise a series of deficiencies that refer to public transport infrastructure, especially in the rail sector; list even all these main deficiencies with a very detailed list, and find out which are the disinvestments that have occurred on the part of the State, and they are some figures, say, that each time they know more: the State has only invested a 13_per_cent of the compromise with the Railroads Plan and a 5_per_cent in the Improvement Plan of Railworthiness. And until here we would agree, and it is important that this is reiterated, that it is so, and denounce, say, this irresponsibility of the Spanish Government respects a compromise that it still has, until today, with this territory and with this concrete matter. As for the solution, however, you do make a demand for money transfer in order to make these investments from here. That's, say... in terms of education, we'd say they'd make good progress. That is to say, they have already changed there, that speech they made until today, which was to ask Madrid to make the investments; now what you are doing or what you are planning to do is to ask Madrid for the money because we, with these money, will already do it, we. And, so to speak, this is also a good thing, this change of trend, this change of attitude, so respect this speech that makes it respect this to always go back from Madrid, to ask. So far we seem well, too; what happens, which, say, would be good – that would be good – if we do not already know in advance what will be the answer of Madrid, of the Spanish Government, which is 'no'. With this we pass a little as in the reference; that is to say – above all with the reference agreed – you already know that they will say no, and, despite that, they want to keep going. All right, let's go, let's do it. So, vagina, as they have granted on the subject of the referendum, with the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot..., to go first still to ask Madrid again if we let make a referendum pact. And we don't tell them not to do it – we don't tell them not to do it – but neither do we, say, swallow or want to endorse this strategy. As is widely known, who is our strategy and who is our position with respect to what relations we have to have with the Spanish government, we defend, right? This unilaterality and we think that we are at a time when we should be talking more about what strategy we agree on or we can come to agree from here on how we do this separation of benefits once we can make the reference and declare independence, so how we do this separation of benefits with the State. This is where we should be working, with the benefit that, if this separation of good happens for the good, so, it's just doing there, a calculation of the due and having, right? And we've already done it, because, so, we've already listed what are these deficiencies of everything that the State should give us for such a repair, regularization, the best of these infrastructures. And if the State didn't have to do a separation of benefits, then, say, for the good ones, so, maybe we should go..., and that's where we should be talking about what strategy we're taking as the country so that we can move towards stronger measures, right? , even of direct occupation of this infrastructure and of this service. It's to say, that, objectively, it's something that doesn't work; we all see it. Therefore, some solution must be given. If this solution is to come for the good, better; but if you don't go for the good, we have to be smart enough to have a strategy to solve it in another way. And, finally, in the third place, that you require the State not to rescue with public money failed highways, basically around Madrid, radial highways, obviously we are in favour of not rescuing with public money private companies, but we do not seem consistent in supporting a petition that it is asking for..., to tell others that they do not do anything other than us, or in this case the different governments of these last years, yes they have done. Or isn't it that there's been no bailout on the highways or the failed highways? So yes. For the part of different governments: the tripartite signed a contract in 2006 that executed the former Government, Convergence and Union, in 2015, for which the credit of 275_million euros was subordinated to a private company, Cedinsa, formed by Fomento, etc., for the rescue of the C-17, of the Vic-Ripoll tram. Therefore, first we consider that we should do things right here, before we go to give lessons on how to do things the others. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.238.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Next, Mr. Marc Sanglas has the word to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.239.0	Thank you, President. In any case, before anything else, thank the support of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot to the totality of the young man, despite some stretch of ears that made us the Lady Grau, but with a lot of « dearness. Tell him that, in any case, the one who claims..., you say to us: "We claim the cent_per_cent to ensure that the stations are adapted for people with reduced mobility, and the government has only a 91. In any case, no immediate execution is required, but, in any case, it is a will that ends at this point. Because, in the end, the problem is that, in any case, the Government of the Generality has a planning or planning to make this adaptation possible, which does not happen on the part of the Government of the State. And, therefore, from this point of view, we do care. Some have also said to us: "Listen, demanding is not the way, one has to negotiate. So, look, I'm asking all the advisors before Mr. Rull – and Mr. Rull also tried, tried to negotiate, talked to the various governments in Madrid – who was the answer. Because, let's remember, this is the 2008-2015 plan; therefore, it is not that it is ever since yesterday that it is beginning to demand, but it is a long time ago that it is intended to negotiate and all governments have tried to negotiate and in the end there was no positive response from the Government of Madrid. And, therefore, from this point of view it seems to us that I can use this word, this expression of demand, because there is enough. We will continue to negotiate as often as possible, the government will continue to do so, but in any case the word "requirement" has to come out. Miri, he was talking about the cost overrun of the L9; the L9, I remind him that he did not have any European financing as they did, let's say, the facilities and infrastructures of Madrid..., and that, in any case, the Government of the State also gave 8,000_million euros with the third additional provision. And if we talk about extra costs, so, miri, the radials of Madrid had to have an expropriation value of 380_million euros that ended with a value of 2,250_million euros. So don't talk to us about the extra cost. And for what he was talking to about the Vallès lines, yes, it is true; there are problems of overoccupation at these times in the Vallès lines that are in the lives of solution. You know that we approved a motion for a resolution to the corresponding committee. New stations have been set up, both to Terrassa and Sabadell, which have increased the number of users, which, in short, is about public transport, so I can increase the number of users. And what is being studied at these times: what is the way to improve frequencies in all these two lines to accommodate with the greatest possible convenience all the passengers they carry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.240.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.241.0	Thank you, President. To ask for separate votes from points 1, 3 and 2..., 1, 2, 3, go. [[Rialles.]] The 2nd? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The two. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.242.0	I mean, all the points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.243.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.244.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.245.0	Yeah. So, come on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.246.0	It's just that the young lady has three points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.247.0	I can already prove that I'm not particularly inspired this late. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.248.0	A separate vote was requested on the three points of the motion. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 72 votes to 11, with 50 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 112 votes in favour, against and 21 abstentions. And then we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. The Public Transport and Sustainable Mobility Movement was approved by 112 votes to 11, with 10 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the right to die dignifiedly]] [[302-0003/11]] The twenty-one point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the right to die dignity, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms. Marta Ribas. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ribas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.249.0	Thank you, President. With this young man, and with the inquiry that we made to the Ple of Disembarkation, from Catalonia Yes, it is We may want to be useful in three ways, for this matter. First, in collaborating that it is about death, because also the Parliament, already gave it to the inquiry, we need to be talking about death if we want society to be talking about death. It is necessary because citizenship is conscious and thoughts about what a dignified death is for each person. And why should we also show that this is a social and political priority in our country. That was one of the objectives. The other was to move a proposal of improvement to guarantee the right to a dignified death in what we already have regulated and as competitions in Catalonia, especially focusing on the document of early vows and on everything related to palliative cures. And the third objective was to remember what is still going on and stopping to unblock it, and that means decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide. To be a country where the right of people to decide how to die worthily is really respected, we need to re-open this debate and we need to stop because we finally have a decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide. And I start here: euthanasia and assisted suicide today, the year 2017, continue to feel cause or possible object of going to prison. And, in this sense, today we have in Parliament – I think it has not yet been able to enter – precisely one of the people who suffered it: the first doctor who was sentenced to Spain for euthanasia, to facilitate the death of a patient of eighty-two years with terminal cancer, who demanded that he facilitate his death, as well as his daughter. A year of prison that did not have to be completed, but it did have to be completed many and many consequences in his personal and professional life afterward. It's Dr. Marcos Ariel Hourmann. [[Greetings.]] And I think it's worth this applause as a recognition to a person who has suffered in his own blood and in his own skin, and his family. And that's why we have to fight. And that's why he's fighting from here, and that's why we're fighting from the Congress, too, with Marta Sibina, who is also accompanying us today, as a Member of Parliament, and who have also entered a bill of law in the Congress because that changed. And I want us to take advantage of this debate of this motion to celebrate that once I have registered the motion and until today there has been novelty, because this Parliament is also taking steps forward in this direction, and there has been a joint bill of law between Juntes per el Si, the Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the CUP to ask the Congress of Deputies to pass the Penal Code, specifically, euthanasia and assisted suicide. The rest of the young man, however, as I said, basically what he wants is to get better at what we already have, and that's why the rest of the points, as they well know, are about how to improve information about how we die, how to improve the process of death at what we can already do, and we already have right and we have means and we have recognition and resources, like palliative care, but also how to promote that it is about death and how we want to die and the document of anticipated vows. I believe that with the young man, with the points of this young man, with the ideas that the groups have made and that we have incorporated or traded, we have worked together to get him to speak in this chamber, to claim that there are a lot more people who are making altarpieces of this very thing, to begin with, the rest of the one hundred and thirty-five deputies and deputies of this chamber from this debate. But also, obviously, to claim it, to the Government, that you use the system to get as many people as possible, to promote this reflection of citizenship respect how we want to die. Because the defense of a dignified life must go precisely connected to the defense of a dignified death. If we defend the empowerment of the citizenry with the decisions to take during life, the right to decide on so many and so many things, such as, for example, the right to the right to the right, of which we have been talking a moment ago in this chamber, so that the citizenry, seized, can also decide on our death. And these decisions, moreover, are respected and exercised, because we are not talking about luxury, we are talking about a right. A right which today is reinforced with a political pronouncement of this Parliament with this motion, with the first point of this motion, but which is also reinforced with the demand of the Government of concrete things in order to be able to realize it in that which we already have regulated, such as, for example, palliative cures or the dissemination of the document of anticipated vows for all citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.250.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. In order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.251.0	Thank you, President. Let me tell you, for starters, I wouldn't touch me today to make this intervention. It would be up to him to make this intervention to our partner Assumpta Escarp, who, as you know, has had a little problem of salvation and who cannot be here today, but who has been working on this issue with the group presenting and with the members of the platform for a dignified death, and therefore I will be the only one to pass on all this work that has done so well as to satisfy him during all this time. And, besides, tell them that from here we send all of our escalph and all of our positive energy so that you can return, as soon as possible, to the work and you can be working with us. [[Greetings.]] All right, take care of it, y'all! He said, therefore, that the Assumpta had done a very good job working with this young man with the group presenting, with Marta Ribas, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, and also with the members of the right-wing platform to die, with Xavier Gol, with Isabel Alonso and with so many others. Today we don't just want to greet you, but we would like to see the debate on this motion of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group.Yes, it is possible that it was in itself a recognizance of your task in your struggle, compromise and example, as the bill on decriminalization of euthanasia that we have promoted four groups of this chamber and that we expect to discuss here itself. The October of last year the platform compared to the Health Commission. Previously, I had done it to the Justice Commission. And Mrs Isabel Alonso said to us: "The parliamentary groups are responsible for the implementation of the proposals, their debate and their approval, if they escape, to, from here, encourage the acts of government that remain adept. Okay. So, today, with this young man, we have the opportunity to concreteize the actions to do. We need to talk more about death. This culture, this taboo that makes it hard for us to even express ourselves is what we have to break, because we want to live with dignity the process of our death and of those who involve us. Members and Members, today we are not dealing with a sensitive issue or a thorny issue, today we are talking about guaranteeing a right that recognizes Article 20 of the Statute of Catalonia and the Charter of Rights and Rights of Citizens in relation to health and health care. All people have the right to a proper treatment of pain and comprehensive palliative care and to live with dignity the process of death. All people have the right to express their will in advance. With this objective we understand that there are two levels to develop: a first, that of the best needs in the existing legal framework, which is what is meant by the content of the motion we are discussing today; a second, decriminalization and subsequent regulation of euthanasia and assisted suicide. The first step, as we say, is to see with the Proposed Criminal Code Amendment Bill. Catalonia, and so we all recognize, is at the forefront of legislation on patients' rights, the implementation of the Register of Early Wills and the development of palliative care. But unfortunately, as the platform says, from its experience there are still many people who continue to paint unnecessary suffering at the end of their lives. And this is because of lack of awareness of legislation on the part of health care staff, lack of awareness of rights on the part of patients and their environment; difficulty in accessing palliative care teams, and lack of information or resources to care for the entire population that needs it. The motion seeks to contract, with the hope that the government will be able to implement it, four objectives. First, knowledge: how is Catalonia? Hospital plants? The ICUs? Urgency? To the residences? The house? It is called for to create an observer of death, where all data can be collected, conclusions and proposals for improvement. At this point it's hard to find these data, we all know there's been covert suicides. Second, information: information to the citizen about the patient's rights and promotion of the advance will document. How is it possible that such an important right is exercised by less than 1_per_cent of the population? It's difficult to do-do and to record-do. Therefore, we need to simplify. We need to include the promotion of the document in the first place. In the United States one_third of the population you did. But for another band, we're not sure the system respects the document. We are aware that we are in a context of talking about death and how we would like it to be produced is a taboo theme. So much so that our hospitals are talking about death in an euphemistic way: "That patient has not died, the patient has been successful. Expressing the anticipated will is a reflection on the first death in the family and health world, because it is very important for professionals to get involved. We ignore our right and the professionals also ignore it. Third, guarantee: guarantee of universal access to palliative care with territorial equity all the days of the year and twenty-four hours a day. And fourth, training: training of all health personnel with rights for the patient...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.252.0	Miss Ibarra, I know it's hard, but she's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.253.0	Okay. To conclude, tell them that the Socialist Group supports the motion and that we wanted to present a message that we believe will step back the will of the four groups that we have signed up to the processing of the Law Proposal to decriminalize euthanasia and that we have seen it collapsing. We want to thank Congresswoman Marta Ribas for her hard work and her willingness to agree...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.254.0	I know it's hard, but it's been a long time. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.255.0	...and to his capacity [[the speaker laughs]] to talk about death, now that's the image of life. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.256.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ibarra. [[The president laughs.]] Next is the word of Mrs. Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.257.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, first of all, to welcome..., I see members of the Association for the Right to Morir Dignament, who came here to the Parliament, to the Health Commission, the Justice Commission, and that this Parliament, as today is an exhibition, responds to these petitions, these proposals that bring us this association, as well as the response of all Catalan society. Thank you to Congresswoman Marta Ribas, too, for bringing this young man. I think the counselor already said that at the time of the inquiry. And yes, Parliament has also done a lot of work, as it does from the Congress of Deputies by many groups from many years ago, and, in this case, Parliament has entered this bill, entered by different parliamentary groups to modify this penal code; this penal code which, at this time, is penalizing a practice that should be an answer to the will of the people, to a dignity. As Marta rightly said, dignity must not only be in life, but also the dignity of dying dignity, as the same association calls for. Therefore, this decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide. We did different things to this young man, who didn't come to change the feeling of the young man, who has already announced that we are voting for it so that we can fully collect it. We made a statement of respect to the observer, only to make it concrete that the Aquas, the Agency of Quality and Evaluation Sanitàries, acull from the Observers of the Health System of Catalonia all those observers of concrete themes that there has..., that there is now or that is vagina creating. We believe that it can strengthen it, that it gives it power, because in an orderly way this task can be done rigorously. We're talking about the death watcher, and we say it here, we need to talk a lot more about death. It sounds loud when you say so, observers of death, but you may know, as we were well called, how we are dying in our country, how much better we can have, because it is really one of the countries that we are most advanced in many practices, but that there can still be better, look at which territorial equity in our territory respects the attention at the end of life, respects this respect to the willingness of patients, families. And, therefore, this observer is important and he is the key to it. The other thing he wanted to insist on is to promote the advance volunteering document. Apart from that promotion, from that advice that can be made in general to the citizenry by mediating communication, video broadcasts, etc., we give a paper relating to primary attention. And that's important. I said Marta, we want the system to help us in this knowledge of the advance wills document, and we have tried to include it in a theme because this promotion can be done effectively, that it is not an empty phrase, but that it can be done effectively so that we can make a leap forward to ensure that this advance wills document is known by the citizen. This is not an excluded document for a specific population, perhaps it is more interesting to insist on a chronic patient, an advanced patient, but it does not have to be excluded. It's a document I can write for everyone, and above all we have to let everyone know it. Nor is it a matter of keeping everyone's documents in the Register of Early Wills, but everyone who wants to have them. And we're not sure about everything right now, because there's still a lot of people who don't know it. This is why we need to insist on this promotion. Catalonia is certain that it has done a lot of dues in this sense. Every year, every year, we grow up in the forms of advance volunteer documents in the register. We're leaving in 2003 with 1,500 documents and now there's no more than 70,000. We go to the front with a lot of difference by people respect other places, but still, like there are still a lot of people who don't know it, and we think it's important, so we insist on this primary care paper, this paper of the system that Congresswoman Marta Ribas gave, to help in this knowledge. And in this sense, we have also included a statement by Juntes per el Si because on the part of residential services that depend on the Department of Social Affairs and Families it is also possible to promote knowledge of the document of anticipated wills. And the second aspect, beyond this knowledge, is that this knowledge is well transmitted. And that's why he insists on this – and he does it very well – in the formation of professionals, not just in the document, obviously, but in the attention at the end of life, in respect for the patient's wishes and in all those aspects related to bioethics. I ended, with the aspects of the final attention of life, also insisting on this paper of the primary attention to meet the needs also at home in the periods, in the days, in the final moments of life. Make an assessment of how we currently have primary care, in hospitals, in socio-sanitary... do not neglect the need for pediatric care throughout the territory. And in this sense together for the Yes has also incorporated another theme that guarantees that the conditions of follow-up, intimacy, comfort are better at those times...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.258.0	Mrs Vergés, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.259.0	...ends of life in the hospital centers. I'm done. It is an important debate to do so and to the right we have the law on information, we have the Statute of 2006 and we have a bioethics committee that tells us how to do it. Thank you – thank you, President. [[Don't worry, I'll give you some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.260.0	The words of Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.261.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, first place, a hug to MP Escarp and our best wishes for recovery. I remember well my stay in practice at the Pal·liative Medicine Unit, how they hinder the patients, the form of a sister, the looks, the silences... That team and the way he had to work was exemplary; it is not about taking the pain, that also, but that there are many more things of his work that can be recognized and put into value. The maximum of the 19th century « heal sometimes, relieve often, console always continues fully in force. A doctor does not forget the first time he enters the home of a difunct, and much less forgotten when he was going to his patients' house in the agonic phase. Again, the silences, the family, the sensations. These days I have read a lot about the subject and have done as I have always done before the important scientific questions: I have consulted the great experts in the matter, some of my veteran teachers. As always, the expert people make you think, and as usual in science, it's not all white, it's not all black. Asking some questions often brings us back, such as answers, answers and much more complicated questions, that neither science nor ethics nor clinical experience can solve. This doesn't have to be an ideological debate. I received a long letter from my teacher saying – and I quote a small fragment –: "My vision sees my values and beliefs, but also from observation and sharing already twenty-three years accompanying the end of the life of a half-hundred patients/year. The demand for euthanasia of the patients we meet is scarce, very scarce: one, two patients/year in the context of a lot of suffering. A suffering that can be physical to be mistreated or emotional to be frustrated, because reality does not respond to expectations. Most cases could have tools to respond to them with well-equipped and well-formatted palliative care teams. Beyond clinical professionals, the international bibliography states that the reasons for which patients seek to escape their lives in many cases have to do with not being a burden on their families. In this sense, you help them to depend, as you know, they have descended in a remarkable way – tanco comets. It may be that they are curios and that they will also be in tune with clinical practice and international bibliography. For example, have you read what our experts at the Catalan Institute of Oncology say, here at the side? When the patients get out well, deputies and deputies, they don't want to die. Exploding the professionals of the debate is a big mistake, so I can be very sure of the moment when a disease is in terminal phase, and that the discomfort is not a cause superimposed on terminal disease, because very often this is treatable. It is not the same an irreversible situation in its agonic phase, which a terminal illness with symptoms still reversible. Sedation is a good practice: helping to die without a heart is a moral obligation. I really appreciate having this debate today, but it's not a five-minute topic. Our group has worked very hard on this assumption and already on the pact, first with the PSOE in Madrid, as well as later with the PP, we included that we should work on it. We call it the law of dignified death; a law to guarantee the rights of citizens to face with dignity and according to their decisions the end of life, ensuring the freedom of people respect the continuation or not of the treatments, and the provision of the palliative cures that they need. In the end, Ciutadans presented the law that gives answer to all this. This is the law, in case we want to consult it. This text that they bring us here today is the answer to the petition of an association to which again, therefore, I take advantage to greet; but it is much more than what it would be necessary to do for the rights and freedoms of patients. It is necessary to agree on many non-political views. They will understand that that little paragraf that some have signed here right now Madrid to change the law, we did not subscribe to it, because we do not insist Madrid to do: we go to Madrid and fem. Many honourable President, Members, Members and, especially, Councillor Comín, have heard me say many times that medicine will be human or not medicine. Getting sick in the past is a shame. Allowing patients to die in the past is not human and is not good medicine. I, Councilor Comín, don't blame the infirmary, don't blame the workers. It can dignify the patient's attention. Admitting the continuity of health care retailing is not acceptable, it is unworthy and it is not known for our health care system. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.262.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.263.0	Thank you, President. I have to say that after the intervention of Mr Soler, who also sees the experience and this humanist medicine, I cannot make any contributions, but, despite that, I will try. I turn to the rostrum to make..., to defend a political position that plays with the cultural mainstream and with politically correct ideologies, despite the fact that they seem to count on the support of the majority of professionals. We don't believe, we like the People's Party, too, to indulge ourselves sometimes with the romanticism of counterculture. And more than that, it's about defending the culture of life before those who try to stretch out and normalize a culture of death. I have the certainty that you are acting with good intent, as I have the conviction that the way you propose leads to a banalization of existence and leads us to a dangerous pendant, as has been shown in other countries. But we can't exhaust this today, we'll talk about it another day. We have some disagreements about life and it seems that we also have some disagreements about death. Then, of course, it always passes to the others, until one day it passes to us. There's always been a lot of talk about death, less now; always, all the history of humanity. The classics called it "the great equalizer"; "equalizer, perhaps that's why you have so many wills to advance it." [[Rialles.]] But one more time, today it will be clear that, beyond the differences – beyond the differences – we share a wide common space, and you know it and I am glad. We want a humanized death, we want a worthy death, we want a good death. But the path to good death is not the legalization or extension of assisted suicide. You say to us: "There are people who have lost the illusion of living. Sure, but it's not up to you, that they always tell us that we have to go to the ultimate causes of phenomen, the solution they bring us here. We can't make it that fast. Are you tired of living? Water, I'll help you get out of here. Clearly, this is easier than wondering and facing the causes of this situation. It's easier to give the passport to the other barriers than to break the loneliness or suffer the pain, which is the usual cause for people to want to advance death, as they show the studies and the same ones they do. It's easier; it's also more fucked up and, surely, it's more dangerous. And you yourself don't – you do – and that's why when someone has antisocial behavior, you tell us: "We don't just treat the symptom, we go to the causes, we address the causes of its action. And here, in change, what they prefer is to shut down the symptom, the desire to die without addressing or wanting to face their motivation. People, in general, do not want to die; what they want is not to suffer, what they want is to feel accompanied, what they want is not to be a burden, what they want is not to feel unnecessary. And the studies tell us. If we change these conditions, people, then, change their will to anticipate death. And I think you see it yourself, and that's why you've made these changes and this extension of your proposal. Maybe because they lowered their ideological castles, maybe because they talked to the sector, maybe because they talked to medical colleges. And they presented us with a much wider young man in the end, much more sensible, than we share in the good part. If we want to keep up with people on the last path of life, we need to prepare the teachers, we need to give the right training, we need to introduce the necessary accents in the studies, and you propose it and you propose it very well. And we've come a long way these past few years, and now we're talking. But we have a long way to go. How do we communicate to a person who ends his life? Where do you have to spend your last days? How can we help you with the traffic? This is all about what we have to do and what you guys are planting. Medicine is a great science, but the leading doctors of history have also shown us that medicine is a practice of humanism. For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, you do not feel that the very people who tell us that we have to put the economy at the service of life, and they are right, tell us that we have to put the medicine at the service of death. That's not the path, that's another path. We need to make every effort to achieve a good death, and that is why we need to develop studies, as they ask, on the conditions of death in Catalonia. We need to know how our people die; they can't die like anonymous numbers in the dark and cold of social indifference. We agree to create this death observer, not to convert the death observer into a lobbyist to promote euthanasia. But we agree that there are all, all groups, all sectors, as well as those who are with us today and who work for whom they think they should work. So let them be there and all of them be there. And at the end we came to an agreement with you. I'm done. Some other day we can delve deeper into the background and also scientific debate. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we must stay and say, alto and clear, yes to a good and dignified death, not to the legally assisted suicide. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.264.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Then, to fix his position, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.265.0	Well, thank you very much, good afternoon. First, a previa. Unfortunately, the Lower Councillor is not there, but today the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Creed They are all with a red lace, although we do not follow the mass of laces, we normally. But we go with a red lace because the 1st of December is every day and, therefore, if the 1st of December is every day, it is also defense every day and it is defense not increasing the policies of co-opting in drug addiction and seropositive and, therefore, as we also want to denounce it, today we want to go with this lace. [[Some applause.]] Before the young man, the truth, we wanted to be brief because we shared the hope of the young man, because after the appearance of the association of a worthy death we committed, the majority of parliamentary groups, to working for a joint resolution and, therefore, we understood that this was and could be the fruit of that appearance, but, listening to some of the interventions, we cannot help but surprise him that he is demagogic about death. Because talking about the culture of life is also talking about a worthy death. Because talking about the right to the right is also talking about a worthy death. And that's what this young man does, and that's what he needs to work for. Because it is not a matter of saying: "Let us improve the living conditions of the people and they are already. If we do this, we understand that death is also a more episode and a more state, and that here we have to collectively defend it and put in place the necessary tools, the necessary ones that are partly collected in this movement: the need of the death observer, linked in this case to the observer of salvation, but that we do an analysis of the subject, that we inform patients, but not only that we form and facilitate access to the document of anticipated volunteers. In this sense, we also believe that, despite the fact that in the end we have not introduced it because it was a subject that we want to work and discuss more, there are people who are beginning to think about the need to extend the assumptions provided for in the law so that it is possible to vary a little the need of the three witnesses to facilitate access to the great people or other people who have difficulties in this and, therefore, that it is possible to channel through other lives, but from the point of view of the young person here we believe that it is a good time to start working. Because it is necessary and remains collects universal access and effect of palliative cures. So let us strengthen this and above all that we are also making progress in the training of health personnel. We believe, and also that we have signed it, that a few things we urge or achieve change in the current penal code, because the current penal code, despite the fact that some seem to be oblivious, has some authors and people who wrote it, that it is well that years after various opinions, but that there have been different episodes at the Congress of Deputies where this issue has been attempted, and various groups have systematically blocked it. We, however, listen to the demands of the collectivities who here defend the right to a worthy death, give recollection and give recollection to this proposition of the law. We understand that we can discuss it a lot more. But above all we are clear that we cannot forget and, as the author Núria Terribas said to the audience in October here in Parliament, let us wait, trust and believe and work because, when here we have the capacity to write our own penal code, the right to a dignified death and to euthanasia will be collected. Because if we're talking about rights, we're talking about right to decide and defense of our own, we also need to talk about that. Because a subject, as I said, here, the Member of the People's Party, who, at the length of the years and cultures, has spoken a lot, like death, is not currently spoken of, and, therefore, it is a subject that we need to talk about, but it is not only we need to talk, we need to recognize it and we need to defend it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.266.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, to defend the papers... No, I forgive, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.267.0	Well, thank you, President. Allow me to thank the items that we have removed from all groups and the willingness to deal with them and to enter into this young man's debate. A special greeting to the Assumpt Escape and a special thanks to who is, in fact, the engine of this inquiry and of this young man, who is the Right partner to Die Dignity, who are the ones who will then, now, with a very alive, sure, pursue the Government because it is complete all the points that we will approve of a few moments in this Parliament, in this young man. Points that try to deal with what we explained in disembarkation, which is that there are still many people who die slowly, in painful conditions, when they would not be warm in Catalonia, and that this can be avoided and that this is because of ignorance of the rights, because of ignorance of the legislation on the part of the care staff or because of lack of resources to care for these people, and this is what we have concrete solutions in this young man, to ensure this care with universality. Allow me a personal reference. Surely this is my last intervention for a while. The own Ple I hope to be giving life, precisely. And, therefore, I leave it to you, in this Parliament, that we really do from this Parliament, in Madrid, to regulate that from the defence of a life worthy of and from the maximum defence of this dignity we can guarantee a dignified death and, therefore, this proposal of law, which we have joined together various groups, we have already entered this House and we can bring it to the Congress of Deputies. And obviously, we also go to Madrid, to do it directly from there, as I pointed out before, from the Grupo d'en Comú Pomera. But I think it's very important that the Catalonian Parliament is also doing this step that we have not managed to do so far from a vast majority of saying that we will not really have this individual dignity right, also at the time of death, regulated and guarantees until the possibility of assisted suicide or euthanasia emerges from the Penal Code. The example, given in my first intervention in this debate, is what happened to Marcos Ariel Hourmann, who is now here and we gave him a recon a little while ago. Because what cannot be is that at a time like the present, 2017, the case of Ramon Sampedro would still have been impossible. No, no, I mean, it would have been the way it happened or that still today, 2017, there would have been a prison sentence for a doctor who makes an assisted suicide or euthanasia. And that's also the defense of a worthy life; and that, obviously, is the defense of the right to decide; and that's what I leave them with, if I may, that I will withdraw a time to go and give life and defend a worthy life, but also with this dignity in the death that we should all be able to have. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.268.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.269.0	Yes, thank you. To ask for a separate vote from point 1. [[Long break. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.270.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.271.0	Separate vote, Chair, '1st.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-01-26-2802.272.0	1st. Mrs. Marta Ribas agrees with this vote, why is it separate...? Do you agree? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. They therefore called for a separate vote on point 1 and point 1.a. So, we'll start by voting 1st, then we'll vote 1st and then the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] I'm voting for point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 96 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 98 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the right to die has been approved by 132 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] I know you've got a lot of gain in it. Very late in the day, many thanks to all of you. And the session goes up.
