ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Question to the Government on health transport]] [[300-00206/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on health transport presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies and deputies, counselors. Two-day hangover, which was to be historic and which had become forty-four hours bad for the Parliament of Catalonia, let us hope that there are no great consequences for the parliamentary life of this day, respecting the rights, I am speaking, of the deputies and parliamentary groups in this chamber. In this hangover, though, I want to go back to reality, and it turns out that while we were here, so, with this... obviously, concentration, right? , in a debate of very important issues for the country too, important things and hard things were going on outside. Today there is a shift from the health sector to Girona and the Maresme, and this morning there are negotiations to try to stop a shift from the entire health sector throughout Catalonia for the next dilluns, September 11th, the Diada. This is what is happening, among many other things, like what is going on with the school year, what is going on in our CAPs, or what is going on in any other sector of work in Catalonia during these days. What happened and what continues to happen and that, in many cases, is the consequence of what has been happening to us these last years and what continues to happen, that they are detailed assumptions and determined political intentions, that they are placed in assumptions, but that they are also placed in other elements, such as public contests to manage our basic public services. And then it'll be what we're talking about. Because the base and the key and the anchor of this situation that today leads to a wave of sanitary transport to Girona or a possibility of a wave of sanitary transport to all of Catalonia by September 11th, is a contest that was made by Mr. Boi Ruiz, even as a counselor, and that left us a very bad legacy. At the February 2016 plenary, Councillor Comín, the first question I asked to you, as a Councillor, that had just been opened, from Salut, in a session of control of the Government, was on this subject. And he warned them, counselor: you have a problem and it's called health transportation – surely he remembers that. A problem, for this competition, the most important of the later legislature, very controversial and problematic in its bidding and award process. They generated reasonable doubts about the model change proposals that are being made, this introduction of rapid intervention vehicles, the VIRs, and how this could affect differentially according to five territories, because Catalonia is different in many things, also territorially, and dispersed. How could it also affect the logic of uniting the service and the quality of the service across the country from the isocron indicator, huh? , or so, the same response time to the same emergence as the territory. How it could affect the role of health professionals in this health service, which is transportation, too. Doubts, also reasonable, about how they would affect labor elements: subrogations, conditions, etc., but also elements of service efficiency, if this would end up involving activation of more resources and vehicles than was done before for the same incident. Doubts and fears are more than reasonable, coming as we came from detailing the whole field of public health care, especially primary health care, and seeing how this competition further encouraged marketing in the management of health care transport and, therefore, could also be even more detailed in this service. Doubts, doubts and doubts, which have then ended up materializing in reality, advising, because, in this year and a half, there have been problems and delays in the territorial deployments of certain enterprises; details in working conditions and at the same time; technical deficiencies in vehicles, materials, bases of work for the services; problems in the efficiency, less efficiency, where we have more vehicles for the same attention; there have been problems or at least that of professionals also respect the role of nurses or nurses and technicians; there have been problems with the coordination centre for this service; there has been a lack of urgency in the service; there has been less irregularity in the service. All this, respect the emergency health transport service. As for the non-urgent, there has been an absolute weakness, the model change. It's constant complaints of citizenship that wait hours and hours to go to the hospital or to get out of the hospital or services that carry excessive users and that make them go to do territorial once, isn't it? , for its province or for its region, when it would not heat. We haven't talked enough about this topic during this year and a half in this chamber, much so that surely the affected citizenry, that it's not just the workers of this service but the whole citizenry, surely it hasn't been known. We have not spoken in resolutions to the Health Committee; in motions in this House; in questions in the House; in multiple written questions, by various Members and Members, to the Government, with request for explanations. You, as counsel, committed yourself to taking action, of course; you changed the EMS, much needed; you commissioned an implementation study and effects of this new system and corrected them and made this report. A report one year ago gave us, regrettably, in a few points, that we were right: that the response time, at least, in five of the twelve lots, or so on, of the twelve territorial areas of that competition; that in the vast majority of cases, a 97_per_cent, in which a vehicle of rapid intervention intervenes, does not so alone, so that they are activating more resources than not before; that the complaints of the users have increased; that there would be no reinforcements of summer and winter in certain areas; that territorial variability was increased; and that in health transport not urgent, and that this study could not make a quantitative assessment, it was also warned that there was no improvement in the service. The corrections, Mr. Comín, which ones have been made? First question: what corrections have been made? Have they been enough? Because the feeling is they haven't been enough. There was then, afterward, a young man from Ciutadans with many more details, who later, his own compliment report did not just tell us whether or not many of those concrete points have been completed. And when you talk to the affected people or the territories and they say that no compliment has come to a good end. So, what's the big deal? What measures have been taken, Counselor? Have they been enough? The feeling is, no. Concrete: Today, lot E – Girona, Maresme – it is clear that they are telling us that they have not been enough. There is a gap today, because the workers in this lot are paying for the consequences of the mistakes of that competition, which have not resolved with corrective measures during this year and a half and which, in the end, the company, a venture capital company, has ended up reverting to the working conditions of the workers in this company. The wave of the sector, called or planted by the 11th of September, also has this same feeling. They say to us: "There are still deficiencies in the service, it cannot be that we continue, yet, demanding things from the first day and, moreover, it cannot be that we are still workers and workers in the public sector and we have not recovered or there is no compromise of recovery like the rest of the public sector of that 4,6_percent of the wages that have been spread over the last few years. Will you agree, counselor, with the sector, this morning, in the negotiation, to make this recovery of 4.6_per_cent detailed over the last few years, just as it has been fighting for the rest of the public sector? All of this, counselor – I don't love it – means assumptions. Because it means the rates that are paid to the dealers of this basic service. Is there a presupposition, Counselor? Will there be any assumptions, advisors, for the year 2018? Will there be any presupposition for further details in the health field, Counsellor Comín? Will it be necessary for this sector in concrete terms? You know, you have a problem, it's health transport, and you have a problem, which are resources to reverse the detail. I don't know if you're coming to us with what kind of statements – I say that in advance, because you don't use these arguments that 2018 is independent – can be an answer for those workers who are out of work or who may be out of work. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Then there's the words of Mr. Antoni Comín, Salut's advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.4.0	Thank you, Madam President, and more than ever this thank you is intense, as it has never been before, and you know that I say it very sincerely. Madam Member, it is hard for me to know that the reality probably spread to you what you thought would be a good question, because..., I start with the last question. You asked me..., I suppose you were planning to make an inquiry—it's a speculation—very focused on the September 11th wave, because it's a wave that was to be—to be—national, from all of Catalonia, so we are entering a situation of social conflict, considerably higher than that which occurred during these last weeks in Girona. And what happens to you is that it is – and, listen, the calendar randomities I assure you are not my responsibility – that yesterday, in a meeting between the Català Health Service and the callers of this wave at the national level remember: « 1. In the 2018 fiscal year, the Català Health Service will bring to the board of directors of this entity the approval of an increase of the rates of the sanitary transport that implies a consolidated increase of these rates, of 4,6_per_cent respect to the year 2016. This increase will allow the recovery of the working conditions of the workers of the year 2012. I just want to clarify whether – and you will tell me in your answer – this is very good news for you, or it is bad news because the guide of the inquiry that you had possibly prepared spreads. « Third point: the workers of the concerted health transport, the representatives of the workers of the concerted health transport are committed to devocating the vacancy planned for the 11th of September, and the return to the negotiating table in conditions of dialog. Here's a few firm ones, huh? If I fly later... Perhaps you will also be disgusted when I explain to you that this morning's meeting is at these times ratifying yesterday's pre-agreement. Therefore, during the inquiry there will probably be the communication of the parties, which at these times are ratifying the vague notice. Miri, you started this day, talking about retail. I asked him: "I do not speak of detail again, because you know that what we are doing is reversing the detail, but as he finally said a sentence, which I pointed out, that is: "You can continue to revert the detail, so, effectively, I thank him very much so that you find – it is not a matter of recognizing, it is a matter of finding facts – that this department is returning the detail in salvation. Another previous consideration, before answering the first question. You have asked me two questions, the second I have already answered and I have given you the written proof of my answer, I leave for the final part of my intervention the answer to the first question. But before we do this, we don't clear the questions of work types with the problems arising from the model that were analyzed in the report of the same SEM and the Català de la Salut Service. That the health model, in a very important part of the country..., that the model of urgent health transport, that the SEM, in a very important part of this country, is an envy at international level, have shown, unfortunately, that we have been able to prove in the storms of August. Because at these times we have a shower of medicinal emergence services from Europe – rain – that ask us to explain it, to form it, to find out what the Catalan model is. Because Europe was stunned, the experts in emergency health transport, stunned by the response given by the EMS during the hours after the storm, because it is the best response of all the storms that have occurred in Europe. So, listen, the model is impressive – the model is impressive. Don't tell me the problems of Girona's trip with the problems we analyzed in those reports, which I see is what you've been doing, a little, to prepare the argument of your inquiry too, because there are two things that you don't have practically anything to see. With regard to Girona's vacancy, an acclaim that I think is also important. You know the background motivator of Girona's vacation is 40-41, it's the 40-41 app. But what's going on? That this 40-41 is being tried. Because, first, the first version of 40-41 is used for the social part; the social part earns this appeal for a form defect... Certainly, the company has resorted to the court's judgment; it again makes a new 40-41, and at these times it is resorted to the second 40-41 on the part of the workers, and, as it is judicialized, it cannot be the official reason for the vacancy. Therefore, there is a list of claims that the same social part recognizes that they are secondary, because the main part of its conflict is not on the negotiating table, but the main part of its conflict at these times is pending an appeal. You say to me: "Look, there is a feeling," I said, "that all the corrections that had to be made during..., and that were already foreseen in that report of principles of the year 2016, therefore, are better than they have not been completed. I let him give it cold. The actions that have taken place since the beginning of the new model, how many are they? There's a permanent review, ordinary. Seventy-nine emergency health transportation vehicles, representing 20 percent of the service in all of Catalonia, have been audited, huh? , audited by an accredited company, an external company that does the audit. Fifty-one ambulances or non-urgent transport vehicles have been audited. Of the concrete lot of Girona and Maresme, fifteen urgent transports have been audited, eight not urgent. Twenty-seven emergency health transportation bases, a 13_percent of the total, have been audited. Of these twenty-seen bases, more than half are from lot E; we know that one of the demands, complaints and protests of the workers, you said, is in relation to the state of the bases, so the audit firm has audited more than half of these bases. 83_per_cent, today– this is important –, 83_per_cent of the bases of emergency health transport to Catalonia, which are 210 bases, complete absolutely all the requirements, and in the others are working in the best of those incompliments, which are secondary and minor incompliments, which would in no case justify a resolution of the contract. Are we going to sanctions? Let's go to the sanctions. From the beginning of the performance of this competition – you explained it very well – the contest and the advisor arrived at once. So, I found myself with a contest that was already done, that was already settled, and what I had to do is make sure that the bidders complete the departure of conditions. 138 sanctioning expeditions were launched, 56 during the year 17. Above all – above all – about everything that you foresee leaving: about the state of the bases, about the equipment of the vehicles, about the compliment of the ITVs of the vehicles, about the delays in the transports, etc. These shippers... when there are incompliments, apart from demanding the better of the irregularity identified, a sanction is imposed, as provided for by the administered right. A lot. The fines that have been imposed during this year and lapse, almost two years, of application of the new model pugen to 794,948_euros. Is the Health Department, therefore, in addition to its commitments, that it consists in inspecting all the contracting companies on a permanent basis to ensure that they complete the clauses of the departure of conditions of the competition? Yeah, yeah, yeah. We have already made requests for 566,000 euros, of these 794,000. And lot E, of all these 138 sanctioning expedients, accumulates 31, which is 22_percent of the total. So, Congresswoman, I think you're going to tell me what you're thinking, but you asked me two questions. The first is: yes, effectively, everything is being done to make sure that the model works as it should. And the second is: yes, the wave goes in a precord..., deconvocate yesterday. The other is under prosecution, and as soon as the morning of today we will have confirmation of the final dismissal, I hope.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.5.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Comín. Got the word Mrs. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.6.0	Thank you, President. Look, counselor, this is a subject that, I said before, I took from the first question that I asked her as a Member and you as a Counsellor in this legislature and what I have been following through this entire legislature. When I asked this question I had not called for a vacancy by 11 September; at least I had no knowledge of it. This was done on the basis of information about what was going on in Girona and the follow-up of what had been going on all this time on the subject of health transport. You have this information so you don't make unfounded accusations about this MP's respect. Obviously, I'm happy, I'm glad, that you've got the deal with the boss and the Cat Salut. As I said in my first part of the question, I knew that today, this morning, at this very moment, there is a meeting and is closing, just closing or simply, so, just signing what's going on, this agreement with the employer and the Price Increase for 4,6_per_cent; an agreement that you pass me the detail and says "will allow you to recover the working conditions from the generation of 2018. Pressupost, counselor, gave it in my first part, will there be a presupposition for 2018, as in government? At these times, if you want to make a presupposition on condition, I understand that you already have the work done as a government to present us with a presupposition in this chamber, to debate, because at the end of this year it is possible to approve, if things function in a normal way in this country and in this Parliament, because it is possible to approve and can be effective from the 1st generation of 2018. How am I very afraid that this is not so, I ask you, counselor: there will be this presuppositional game because actually the health transport staff, so that you are signing like CatSalut, can you have the guarantee that it will be fulfilled? From the 1st generation of 2018 you will recover these working conditions, because you will be increasing the rates to companies because you can recover these conditions? And, obviously, the SEM does a good service in this country and, obviously, we want to congratulate them on how they responded in the times of Barcelona and Cambrils. But it's that this group wants the best services for our country, we defend our public services and, because we defend them and we want them good and we want them better until everything they are now, we ask questions about our public services and how to improve them. They don't want them to pry. I, yes, call it a model. You tell me: "Don't barge model with work conditions. So, look, the example of what's going on in Girona today does sweep model with working conditions. The lot of Girona al Maresme, the one that passed, is an error to leave a game of 30_percent of the programmed activity of the sanitary transport in that lot in the contest, on the basis of the award of this contest. This error in the basis of the award of this contest has made that during all this time the TSC company has the argument to be able to say that it has less benefits than it anticipated. TSC, by and large, venture capital company, Bonomi family, the Port Adventures, that obviously, like the good venture capital company, what it wants is to have the maximum of benefits. To compensate for these losses that they consider to have been incurred during this time, this year and a half in which they have already been doing this service, this company is having this gap reflected in the assumptions, in the working conditions of its workers and workers. And that does it in a variety of ways, and one of these forms has been called into the labour dispute that they currently have in this health transport lot in Girona and Maresme. So, yes, it's a model theme, it's a model theme, it's a theme of how this health transport contest was made, it's a mistake that we're heresy and that's to be solved, and you know from the principles that they had this problem in Girona, that the company sure that they reported to them all this time that they had this problem in Girona, that you knew what kind of business was this and how I would try to solve things, but it's not just a problem with the model of health transport and the health transport contest: it's a problem with the country model and the public services we want. Do we want our public services, do we want our common assets managed by venture capital companies? That's what's at the heart of this question, counselor. This is a question of model, and the health transport in Catalonia is a great, unfortunately, a great example of two very different models that you are managing, heredity, but the continuing manager with the same logic of a model to leave our common good and public services that guarantee these common good to venture capital enterprises. And we defend that our common good and our public services must be managed from there publicly, with absolute public control, if not... And, therefore, with a guarantee that there is not only no detail, but that it is reversed those girls' detail and that, moreover, the service is better...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.7.0	Mrs Ribas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.8.0	...for our future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.9.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I start with your first question – you know that I try to answer them – there are always all of them. Are you suspicious of the possibility that the director of the Català de la Salut Service signs, with his signature, with the social share, the increase of charges of 4,6_per_cent for the year 18 and that later you do not do so? I understand you don't, I understand you don't even get through this. Therefore, when the signature of the director of the Català Health Service is compromised to increase a 4,6_per_cent means that there will be an increment of 4,6_per_cent; it is 10_million euros, yes. And the year you see, with new or extended assumptions, will make this increase in tariffs, which has this cost of 10_million euros. I'd just miss it! There are questions that, frankly, I believe are absolutely non-dispensable and non-dispensable. Each one asks what he wants, but from my point of view there are questions that are expendable and eliminable. Listen, Girona's contest was already done when I got here, and I already... so, as in the department, we did what we were told to do, which is to inspect the compliment of the conditions of the contest and sanction in those cases where we have detected incompliments. And I've already given him the data on inspections and sanctions, which are not minor. The evidence... the data I gave him is proof that we haven't stopped to inspect and, when he's in any way, he didn't shake our pen to sanction it. Dades, in reality, listen. Now, said that, let me explain it to you too. This company is in three more lots as a bidder and in four more lots with other companies in a UTE. And you only have problems in Girona. I only have this given on the table, too, because you have it in consideration. How many media meetings have there been at your work department? Six. A marathon that I have been following with all detail while we had managed, by the way, the mailstorm, a marathon of negotiations at the Department of Work between the company, Transport Sanitari de Catalunya, and the unions. And, if I may, to many of these there has been, at the request of the Department of Work, the presence of the SEM. So, has everybody been making a negotiation effort? Absolutely – absolutely. The company, at the last meeting, which is that of August 30, put on the table a proposal of two points, that it was to censure the negotiation to the twelve official points that are attached to the call for vacancy, to censure at these twelve points, and while temporarily suspending the application of 40-41, that it was to begin to apply on September 1, and to leave the application at least until October 9. And the social part, with all the right of the world, decided not to accept this proposal. But I put it as an example that at these times, indeed, an effort has been made to negotiate. And yes, there was a meeting yesterday that was about to culminate satisfactorily, bilaterally, between the social part and the company, yesterday late, but finally the agreements were not possible. Therefore, effectively, this issue is being negotiated. Miri, I'm taking advantage of it to finish where you started. There would have been no relief, but you wanted to begin by saying that today in this Parliament there has been a hangover – I think it has served the word "hangover" – and it has served the expression "forty-four hours bad." I want to say three things to him. One, nothing will be the same in this Parliament since yesterday; nothing will be the same, honourable Member. I am very proud to be the first councillor to intervene after this Parliament took the historic step that was taken yesterday towards freedom, towards democracy, towards self-determination, and those that were the principles of the Catalonian Assembly: freedom, amnesty, autonomy, and the right of self-determination. A Catalonian Assembly that was the idea of the PSUC, which held the moral leadership of the PSUC. And I assure you that those who suffered repression and those who suffered arrested – some of whom you know perfectly well that they are the example that guides me – are very proud – very proud – of what we made yesterday some of us in this Parliament, which is to continue – that is to continue – their struggle. It is continuing your struggle, honourable Member, for democracy, for self-determination and for social justice. I'm very proud, yesterday more than ever, to have been a hero – a hero – of whom I was a hero yesterday. And I wonder why you have given up your inheritance. Thank you, Congresswoman. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the situation of tourism]] [[300-00208/11]] The dotze point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the situation of tourism, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Sergio Santamaría. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. Please, counselor. Counselor! Counselor Comín, please, if you want to talk outside.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, councillor, director. After Mr Comín's panegyric and his epic moment, which has left us a little, in the end, out of place, because, in the end, that is the democratic radicality that they exhibit, I want to go deep into the question that concerns us and that affects the situation of tourism in Catalonia. Counselor, you, last September 4th, in an interview published by La Vanguardia, I read to you, textual: "Counselor Vila criticizes the adoption of the Transitional Law before the referendum. Well, the Transitional Law..., I call it directly the « law of the coup. And then he said: "The company advisor believes that a high turnout in the referendum can cost Rajoy the presidency. Good. After the success of your proposal, I say to you, Mr. Counsellor, that the same thing that costs you, in this case, advice, is yours. And, therefore, I would like to start my speech by being convinced that you cannot be happy today. Because I have you for a person of order, in the good sense of the word, who flees from chaos, who has sensible proposals, who even recognize you, at some point, declarations that have been adorned with certain gallarity. But that, ultimately, does not cease to be, you, too, a hostage to this whole situation. And, of course, that is something that should somehow lead you to a deeper reflection. And deeper because, contrary to what has just been said here, these last forty-eight hours that we have lived in the Parliament of Catalonia has been somewhat phantasmagorical. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yesterday's session and the session before yesterday will pass to the annals of history, but precisely because of the shame that goes..., and that they have provoked, fundamentally among the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.13.0	One moment, Mr. Santamaría. Deputies, please, if they want to talk, they're going outside.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.14.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.15.0	I can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.16.0	Thank you, President. Fundamentally among the Catalans, and I know that today the world continues to turn, although it has temporarily lost – I insist on this, and it is provisional – a democracy. But we're gonna get her back, huh? I'm convinced, I'm convinced of it. And I know that, as I said before, I must say to you that I have the impression that purging it hangs over you; hangs over you. What happens is that you are a skilled person, you are a politician, as I say, who knows how to move between steps and, therefore, you have had to take a certainly schizophrenic position from a political point of view. You seem to me that by day it gets radical and maybe at night something more asenyat, don't you? And, of course, yes, because it defends the democratic radicality of the referendum, and well, and it turns out that then, when you defend that the disconnection thing they leave it for another day, it doesn't matter. And you know why? I said it yesterday in the intervention, because you're going from the CUP ronzal. And you who are a read and educated person know what it means to go from the ronzal, don't you? [[Pause.]] Well, I would recommend that the ronzal, if you can take some scissors and cut it and let go of it, really Catalonia will thank you, huh? Citizenship in Catalonia will thank you in a way you couldn't even imagine. But, well, so they don't say I'm going through the branches, I'm also going into the concrete detail of the interpellation. I think it was important, in any case, this preview. Look, Mr. Counsellor, data from the branch minister: in the first seven months of the year, of the current year, the total expenditure of international tourists in Spain – and remain with the figure, please – is 49,119_million_of_euro. There's that. It is a 16.3_per_cent increase according to the National Institute of Statistics in annual rate, and it turns out that there are people here who want to boost it and have worked hard for it. And I'm not going to say with the connivance of your department, obviously, it would be a clumsy thing on my part, but with some weakness, with some lukewarmness. Well, we could take the best of it to the right, with lukewarmness and weakness. And I want to make a brief historical account, of very recent history, with no clear spirit of completeness. But, look, I'm sending you news; it's in the press: « Radical groups act against tourism in Baleares and Valencia, as they had already done in Barcelona. Indeed, the actions of the independence group Arran against tourism are not limited to Barcelona, where it has returned against a bus and bicycles for tourist use. At least seven hotels in Barcelona have suffered vandalic attacks. Those of Arran : « Tourism kills Mallorca and here the class struggle is being fought. And there's nothing going on here – there's nothing going on here – and these people are clamoring around. Look, as far as this year goes, at least seven hotels in Barcelona have suffered vandalic attacks from anti-capitalist leftist groups that denounce overexploitation of tourism. There's that. The hotel association has recorded five incidents that have been reported to it by its own establishments. The association count does not include any more cases that have occurred. Vandalism has occurred in the speech that is considered to be tourismophobic, and says the guild that a minority within a minority wants to put tourism activity in jeopardy. There were more incidents – there were more incidents – and we have noticed, we have perceived the lack of action..., how to say it, yes: blunt, in the good sense of the word, blunt, politically speaking, of the department. Eye! , and you are not alone in this, you also count on the invaluable collaboration, unfortunately, of the City Council of Barcelona, which, well, is no longer to profile itself, it is almost, almost to encourage that to happen. Look, the tourism councilman says that, well, he condemns the attacks, but here what is imposed is dialogue, it is dialogue. What a cloth! - What a piece of cloth! Okay, but you're a head gestician. Man, the Generalitat of Catalonia I think something should say in the city hall, and you have a nourished representation in the city hall and you are not heard to raise your voice, or at least of course if you raise it should be lazy, because it doesn't get very far, right? We are finally talking, Mr. Counsellor, about pure and harsh vandalism and you are going to recognize it here. I know, I'm ahead, I'm ahead, I hope you don't leave me in a bad place in that sense because if you don't, I'll drop the image I have of you, as I say, of a person with seny, huh? , with common sense. And, therefore, what is not possible, moreover, because it has a particularly serious component..., these tourists who come from abroad get on the bus and meet, with whom they are falling, with people who act vandalically and who, therefore, these people fear for their physical safety. But where has this been seen, in the Barcelona of the 21st century, that a tourist goes on a bus and thinks that he is little less than, I don't know, if I say to him, I don't know..., in Gaza or the West Bank? It's just terrible! It seems to me to be an unusual gravity and, therefore, I insist, here we can criticize, it is our job, we are the opposition, but the Government of Catalonia has to stick an ear to the city hall, and above all it has to act decisively through the judicial process against these heartless people. Let it be stated – let it be stated – that everyone is recognizing that this is a real attack on coexistence, that we cannot allow this situation and, therefore, I want to focus on that core, really, of my inquiry into the response that the Government has to give to this situation, to these behaviors that, as I say, go beyond reprehensible, it is pure and harsh vandalism. And that will, of course, lead us in the motion to promote statements of condemnation. And I know what I am going to say to you, Mr Councillor, and I am prepared, if necessary, with your department and with the parliamentary group that supports you in drafting with one hand the statement of condemnation of these conducts which I am going to propose to Parliament, which our group is going to propose to Parliament, when I present the motion. It's fundamental, but do you know what I'm telling you? That you won't be able to back her up, because you're in what you're in. That is why – that is why – my previous intervention, where I made reference to going from the radicals' ronzal, because what we experienced yesterday is the act of radicality, but not democratic, of anti-democratic radicality, and you cannot therefore condemn what this group, this group of radicals supports, and that is disastrous, that is disappointing. And I'll tell you more, and you'll get billed, you'll get a bill that you won't be able to pay. Then I ask you, truly, within the independence that you are exhibiting, of the political independence of criterion, because you are doing it, and I recognize that courage, to come out here to the rostrum and condemn unequivocally what is happening, what has happened in Catalonia, because that is really going to reassure the citizenry. Citizenship is very uneasy with what is going on and, therefore, the fundamental thing is that since the Generalitat de Catalunya..., that the political leaders who lead the executive calm down, give stability to the citizens; they deserve nothing else. And whoever abdicates that responsibility will be missing the citizens of Catalonia and that, really, will be billed and will be there for everyone to see. In the second part of the motion I will make concrete proposals on how to improve the situation of tourism in Catalonia, of which you, I believe, will agree very much with what you propose. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The word has Mr Santi Vila, Business and Coneixement Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.18.0	Very good morning, very honorable President of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament. Deputy Sergio Santamaría, I just want to devote a minute to the explicit reference that you have made to my political position in these circumstances, I thank you very much for continuing to recognize moderation. Moderation is attitudinal – it is attitudinal – and, in any case, what your group should think – and you personally, as you ask me – is why even a person like me is absolutely determined and committed to continue defending the position being defended. [[Some applause.]] That's what they should think. And you should see exactly where you have left the values of the foundation of the constitutional order that you claim to defend, and that for so many years you have fought. And as today there have been guardians, not defenders, of democracy, because you have finally sacrificed an instrumental reason, which was the constitutional reason. They sacrificed it, petrified it, and so we find ourselves, even the moderates. And before the idea that you, accused in this case, no longer so kind as to recognize my moderation with what this ideological schizophrenic is, I would only say that if the alternative to doing what we have done is to stop recognizing that Catalonia is a nation and that Catalans, the citizens of Catalonia, will always have right, with freedom, to decide our future, understand that we have no other alternative, for reasons of personal honesty, eh? , not for reasons of schizophrenicism or personal and political tactics..... if the alternative is to stop being honest because they threaten us, understand that I would not have the courage to come to this hemicicle to direct them the word. On the subject, I think we're being summoned here. [[applause]] ..., well, without setting the precedent, I feel like I need to defend the CUPs, without setting the precedent, because, of course, there have actually been some touristic activities in Catalonia, in the city of Barcelona, at many points in the country; there have also been some vandalistic actions, actually, against the touristic activity outside Catalonia... I don't know if the CUP tentacles arrive, eh? , outside Catalonia ; maybe with the logic of Catalan Countries a little, but I can't imagine that in other parts of the Spanish State we can also blame them. I, in this sense, will only say one thing: without matter, without difficulty, I fail and the Government of Catalonia, with all clarity, with all force, any type of activity that I want to see with vandalism, with violence, with tourism. We reprimand them without any doubt, without any morning. And I am absolutely convinced that you will not find it difficult to agree on a motion for a resolution which, in this sense, rejects any type of physical tourism activity. Not only that: the government already has the legal actions that we have to take against very determined tourism actions. And, indeed, there have been violent acts, in this case linked, as is well known, to the tourist activity promoted by the Tourism of Barcelona, or there has also been some type of injury of movable goods linked, in this sense, to the bicycle lodger, etc., and the Government is pursuing it, we will sanction it administratively when we can and will prosecute it through the judicial process. As sure as you, that I mean that you assume that you are also a well-considered and moderate man, you will recognize that when there are so many points in the world where tourism is reprobated, an activity that we can come to agree that it is profoundly beneficial to us from the economic point of view, from the social point of view, that Catalonia supposes more than 13_percent of the gross domestic product, so when there are these acts, in short, criticisms with tourist activity, some symptom must be evident, all this, something must not go..., it must not be properly managed, I believe. When the Barcelona Assembly, too, more to fail, says: "We will have to dialogue, it is that all of us, if we are moderate, thoughtful people, that, as sure as the tourist activity is very positive, there is a series of negative externalities linked to tourism that may be the various administrations, the various private interests, have not managed enough properly. And that we must recognize, Mr. Congressman. And I think this is the end of interpretive analysis that we need to have. Reproving, without any doubt, any practice of tourism phobia, reproving even more and prosecuting if necessary by judicial means any violent act – any violent act – and what was done to the TMB bus is an absolutely unacceptable act, which must be reproved and punished; proportionately, eh? – proportionately. As sure as this is all a symptom that tourist activity generates externalities that we need to correct, and today we know that there are many ways of experiencing unintended effects of tourism activity, and we have many tourist activities that due to lack of regulation, lack of order, until the date of its occurrence generate unintended effects in our lives and in our lives: effects of massification, effects of defence before these activities, effects and problems linked to coexistence. And walk through certain bars in the city of Barcelona, tourists and not so tourists, walk through certain bars linked to the Eixample of Barcelona, and you will discover how today we have a whole series of tourist practices and activities that in this sense alter the coexistence. What should we do, the rulers? Simply conform to faulty, gesticulating practices, I would say not only reprehensible, but they have a gesture component, strictly linked to the complaint? This can be done by a young group, by a political group that is at odds. But if you're also representing, huh? , a party that governs, in this case in Spain, if we are at these times ruling in Catalonia, we cannot conform only to an activity linked to the complaint, to the reproach; we also need to analyze why things are happening to us. Therefore, from this point of view, be calm, because the Government rejects it without any kind of morning, so certain that – and as we will demonstrate in the proper weeks and in the proper months with the approval of the tourism decree and with a series of new measures, some of them, of course, that I trust that we can agree with all kinds of administrations and other administrations – we will therefore have to move from the strict stage of promoting the tourist activity or from the mere failure of the tourist activity to new management, ordering, regulation measures. Because we agree, and I want to think that this chamber, if not unanimously, so practically most Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament believe that tourism activity is ultimately beneficial to us and that this country would be very different and worse if it did not have a lot of determined tourism activity, because it has not only assumed very important and positive figures from the economic point of view, but it has had important social benefits in the mentalities changes, in the changes in costumes, and, therefore, it has made us a much more plural, much more open, much richer, much more tolerant society. These are all effects linked in part to tourist activity. At the same time, we know one thing: that beyond these spasms of revulsion, these gesticulations of tourism, let us say it with all the letters, beyond this the conjunction of the Spanish State, the conjunction of southern Europe, especially our country, Catalonia, live a very good moment from the point of view of tourist activity, a very good moment. And all the figures – and I thought that you would do a more sector-related intervention – so all the figures that we have been working with the Directorate General of Tourism and the sector have been working with confirm that, effectively, tourism activity in our country has seen a very good time, one of its best moments in recent history, with increments, if we analyze, for example, this later semester, more than 9_per_cent respect the past year. This means that tourism activity is growing in a very important way, that we are living together. But I fixed from all the parameters: overnight stays, visitor names, average spending on tourism, occupation... When all the parameters are so positive is when negative externalities also come out. And it is when, therefore, some groups – I think, doing their job well – report that there are undesirable effects of tourism activity. Does the government have to be caught in this complaint? No, no, But does the government have to deny it? Menys still. Because this complaint, I insist, is symptomatic of what we have to do. And the city of Barcelona should do better to deal with these cities. And the Costa Daurada knows that it has a very important issue to ask and question her. And the Costa Brava, which is the other great destination, knows that if it wants to continue being linked to excellence and quality in the tourist offer and if it wants to continue feeling an attractive destination cannot lose control. This is not just our problem – I'm finished, Madam President – you saw in the newsroom what happened this August in the Mediterranean, you know what happened in Santorini, you know what is happening in Formentera. It is passing: round successes in promotion matter, round successes from the point of view of the number of tourists; difficulties: excel in management. If we do not make the right decisions in the short and medium term, in the long run we will not have tourism: simply, we will lose the tourism. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. I have the word Mr. Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.20.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, Mr. Counsellor, I say to you with all force and at the same time with all serenity: whoever defends democracy does not threaten. And it's such a basic concept that it's perfectly understood by everyone who might be listening to us. The democratic opposition of the Parliament of Catalonia – I know what I'm saying – is fighting with all the legal instruments and with all the legitimacy that it has at its disposal to fight, to pursue the coup d'état that was perpetrated yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia; in delay, but a coup d'état. Therefore, I insist, honesty, beyond political positions, also requires common sense. What was seen yesterday and before yesterday in the Parliament of Catalonia, Mr. Counsellor? This hemisphere of the House [[the clock assigns the right sector of the hemisphere]] , empty – empty. He's been loaded. How do you appeal to honesty? To divide in this way the Parliament of Catalonia, the representatives of the people of Catalonia, is an act of honesty? I rub my eyes, I can't believe it, Mr. Counselor. What's more, I dare say that I probably, from your intervention, change the concept I have about you. [[Rialles.]] I'm telling you with all sincerity. It's just that it's cruel what you just said here, that it really makes me patidifuso; I know what I'm saying. Because, really – really – I don't want to be aware – and I don't want to be more evil – or being what but being for other spurious interests, with all certainty..., and I don't want to say that, I know what I'm saying, I feel it; but being aware that what was staged here yesterday was an act of total rupture is to be sensible, it is to have judgment, it is to see the reality of things. But, finally, you, I see that there is already a little bit of that momentum, of that gallarity to which I referred in the first part of my speech. Look, Department of Enterprise, that manages the action, the tourist promotion in Catalonia : must implement a corrective action. And you say: "Well, if, after all, we promote dialogue. The thing about radicals is something that we pursue and what, but we have to talk about. But if that is precisely what we have been doing – and you will not be able to deny that our group is defending you. Look, I'll give you an example. Community of Madrid, where we govern: we have banned tourist apartments in homes and residential buildings; we have therefore regulated this prohibition; we have legislated on this; we have also said that the licenses that had already been granted will expire in two years. Well, look, what have we done here? – What have we done here? Dialogue, like the one promoted by the City Council of Barcelona? Nothing has been done here, and that is irresponsible. So, beyond the grandiloquence of your speech, you should assume that nothing has been done, because they are in something else – because they are in something else –, fix what I tell you. And when you're in something else, when you prioritize division, in the end nothing can go right, Mr. Counselor, nothing can go right. And, really, recapacitate, they're on time. But I also want to say, with all calmness, with all prudence, with all measure, with all balance, in truth, the rule of law comes out angry, when it is solid and strong, as the rule of law in Spain, comes out angry of any challenge, especially this monumental challenge. And he's going to, obviously, because there's a lot of people behind him. It is no longer an action, as is said here, repressive of the State, of the prosecutor's office, of the Constitutional Court. It is the people on the street; the people who, moreover, are acting with a civic criterion, especially in Catalonia, who are really drawing my attention powerfully to me and who make me feel very proud. The answer, really, they're gonna find it on the street. Yes, a civic response. Not the one who wants others, violent; no, civic. And they're gonna leave them lying around. Therefore, proposals – I'm running out of time. We are convinced that tourism is a source of wealth. Therefore, in the motion, first of all, as a source of wealth, let us not charge the hen with the golden eggs. Conclusion: We will call for an explicit condemnation of these attacks. We will also call for the decentralization of management of tourism administrations. We are going to undertake – you claimed it – a strategy to deal with incivic tourism; we are radically in agreement with you that these behaviors should be eradicated from our streets. We're going to work to deseasonalize tourism. We will promote vocational training and training. We are going to ask that local entities, that the municipalities have better funding to undertake those plans and projects, and you have to bet decisively on that. And, look, by October 1st, you, beyond trying to campaign, don't go out on the street, don't campaign, if you'll allow me the advice – do whatever you want, huh? – Work in your department; present us, by 1 October, concrete proposals in this area.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.21.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.22.0	I'm done, President. Just to remind you that, in fact, motions have also been adopted here on all points relating to the issue. Present us the reports, take stock of the management and, at the same time, insist, work for the development of tourism, and do not work to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.23.0	Mr. Santamaría, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.24.0	... – I finish, president – do not work, really, to demolish this constitutional building, that so many generations of Spaniards, I know what I'm saying, look back, and see how... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The word has the councilman Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.26.0	Well, then, to complete this inquiry. I have the impression that you are approaching the tourist activity as you actually approach the conflict between Catalonia and the rest of the State; he spoke only of the police, he spoke only of threats [[applause]] He spoke only of how we put the laws to punish, to reprimand, to contain. Again, without setting the precedent, to approach tourism simply by describing that we have a burning society, which practice tourism phobia continuously, is not to live in this reality – not to live in this reality. And again, without setting out above, that there are activities of concrete denunciation of the negative externalities of the tourist activity does not mean that the Catalan society is a society that does not appreciate, that does not value tourism. We won't let each other say that. As we continue to rabidly decide and compromise to defend the right to decide from the citizens of Catalonia, the most rabidly democratic civil and political freedoms of Catalans..., it does not mean that we have lost moderation. We won't let each other say that. And you will be able to arbitrate the campaigns that they call, of defamation; the threats that they call, etcetera. But the civic majority, positive, of this country will not fall into the tempt to enter a dynamic of confrontation. We won't. Because we have the democratic reason for this at our side. And I know it's very hard to lose your good consideration, but if the price to pay, I insist, is to bring in the most fundamental freedoms and independence of personal criteria, so you understand that this invoice I can't pay. [[Greetings.]] Talk about management. Let him be—let him be—why would they always be, huh? , finally confronting us in the land of great ideas. And if you say we go to action; if you have to make a motion just to repudiate, because the government repudiates the phobic tourism, you can avoid it, because we repudiate it without any matter of matter and without any difficulty; we absolutely repudiate any type of activity of phobic tourism. In addition, yes, we have to get to work, and we have to do it; we have to go on doing it, we have to go on doing it, we have to go on doing it, we have to go on doing it, we have to go on doing it, and we have to critically and self-critically review what we can do better with regard to the management of tourism. We have a strategic plan and a marketing plan to come out this November; we also have sectoral territorial plans, which need to help the modernization, the conversion; you have also said this to the deseasonalization. They're putting us in there. And more so than, effectively, the bounds of the country's irradiated tourist activity. They're putting us in there. He says: "Oh, we want to promote decentralisation activities. Sounds good to us. Also, I insist, let's get to the bottom of it, now that we start to know it, who are the negative externalities of this activity and regulate them. You referred to the regulation of tourist apartments in the Community of Madrid. Last week, the government, managing daily life, has also approved a report of recommendations for what we need to do in the context of the collaborative economy, or perhaps better so, the digital economy. And we reorder the activity linked to the hotels, to the tourist apartments, also to the practice of Airbnb. He saw the book, he saw press summaries; Airbnb, by the way, says: « Thank you, Government, for you are ordering this activity. That's what Airbnb said this week. Compatible with tourist apartments as well saying: "They're finding the right balance point, because here we have problems. And we need to bring this activity forward, we need to order it, we need to contribute fiscally if there are activities linked to the collaborative economy, to the digital economy. And the government is doing it. As is also done in relation to the impulse of the tourism cluster or concertation with all universities that have tourist search areas of an information system and tourist intelligence that is absolutely shared. This is being handled. You can see it and you'll see it. And the invitation in this sense to visit us in the Department of Enterprise, the Directorate General of Tourism, and you will be able to enter the detail of the daily. And I think that after visiting us he won't be able to come back to the gallery and say – if he's an honest person, I don't have to assume that he's not – that the Department of Business and Knowledge is absolutely linked to a daily political agenda, compatible with the fact that from a political point of view we must commit ourselves to defending and preserving the rights of our fellow citizens and citizens to decide freely their future. Also the advance that this late will finally emerge the new decree of tourism; a decree that will order and, in fact, simplify all the regulations that until now affect the tourist activity. Here have been created various inter-administrative commissions, and with the various administrations, also, from the local world, with the sector, and I believe that this will be a decisive contribution, as we are carrying out plans for development, promotion, support, marketing, even with complicity with the authorities of the Spanish State, until now. Fix yourself, in this sense, if we are disconnected from the daily agenda. In short, since you claim it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.27.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.28.0	...so, the practice. Moderation, Congressman. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization]] [[302-0180/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I would like to say to you that Mrs María José García Cuevas, who had to intervene first after the proposer, Mr Bruguera, asked us if she could intervene in getting there because she has transport problems. I understand that if the proposed parliamentary group is not inconvenient, it can do so. [[Pause.]] All right, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.30.0	Good morning. With the hope that from today we will again hold a president who will be the president of all – with Venice, Madam President –, ladies and gentlemen, good morning. Congresswoman Ribas was talking about hangover. I have a hangover today, too. And I have a hangover, among other reasons, because I needed to go to sleep at my house, because I wanted to breathe the Sea of Empuries; I wanted to breathe that place, that sea in which for the first time it was talked about democracy and it was talked about and it was practiced parliamentarianism at our house. And, therefore, I invite you to visit Empúries. And, if you want, we'll make it from the hands of Councilman Vila who knows her perfectly and who's helped us a lot these last few days to leave her as we have to. I accompany them, if they want, I invite them to visit Empuries to see if there is a bit of parliamentary and democracy left. The motion and the inquiry that we have formulated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group respect the Consortium for Language Normalization of Catalonia had two objectives. In the first place, avoid the treachery of a country agreement sealed almost thirty years ago. In other words, the need to strengthen the knowledge of Catalonia and its normalization as the essential element of cohesion and social integration in Catalonia. And as a consequence of this, avoiding that the modification of the statutes of the Consortium for the Linguistic Normalization of Catalonia is done in a way, is done in a unilateral way, without dialogue and without agreement. What do we propose, for that matter? What do we say in the inquiry and what do we propose, in the background, in the motion for this inquiry? First of all: guaranteeing the dialog and recovering the dialog; political dialogue, dialogue with parliamentary groups, dialogue with municipal authorities – the Catalonian Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities – and recovering the social dialogue; it is, say, the dialogue with the business committee, the dialogue with the representatives of the workers and the workers of the consortium. And that this dialog – second part – has begun to make now, without delay, and, in any case, that it has ended before the public information period of the modification of the statutes of the consortium does not end. Look, we, and I'm telling you, we don't care about the rings for this, the same thing, if I don't remember correctly, about the inquiry we were having a conversation with the consorts. And I have to say that we were going to find receptivity and we were going to find political will to reach an agreement, on the basis, and we have said since the first day, that we do not deny the need to reform, update and modernise the statutes of the consortium. And I also have to say that I couldn't say that 100 percent, because there are still some things that we think can be changed to improve the statuses, but that we will come to important levels of agreement that have resulted in a willingness and documentation that we have, and that they satisfy us. And I have to say, and that's it. So, selfishly, we can say today: "Mirin, how practically the Socialist Group has reached an agreement with the government, mirin, here, we will change the statutes, we agree... No. We want to be consistent and consistent with what we want to say from the first day: regardless of whether there are important degrees of agreement with the government, we want this agreement to be incorporated..., and, if possible, expanded and changed, and better with the contributions of all parliamentary groups. Therefore, from the selfish point of view, we could even have given up presenting this motion. But we thought we had to introduce it, because we are not absolutely convinced; we are not talking about a minor thing – we are not talking about a minor thing. And we are pleased that, after we have experienced these two last days of this house, on such an important issue, such as country, structure, it has returned to normality, it has returned to the dialog and returned to the will, as at least, to try to reach an agreement. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mr Josep Maria Forn, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.32.0	Thank you, President. And especially and intensely, thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs, we appreciate this young man, who is looking for this spirit to broaden the agreement, and it is true that, if there is an agreement and you can make it wider, still stronger, on an important issue like this, which is that of the reform of the statutes..., and come to the agreement of the transaction that expresses this will of dialogue with the different groups and with the federations of municipalities. The reform of the statutes of the normalization consortium is marked by many needs; some of them are the same indications, European standards, which require regulation and change the shape of the consortiums. The same renewal that demands time; it is twenty-nine years, already, of normalization consortia, so it also requires this. The 2014 board of directors of the same consortium, asks for a review of the statutes. The need to establish criteria that adapt to the current reality in order to incorporate staff and do so in a transparent and agile manner. The need to rationalize the 136 actors that are part of the consortium, with which it is already a number that indicates the entire complexity of the consortium. And especially – and especially – now the Bruguera deputy said, therefore, the importance of a topic as fit as language and knowing how to be up..., knowing how to be up there at times like these. A few days ago, she was published in an article of mine that we did, whatever we did, for the welfare of people. We did it for the... we did it for the welfare of people and we did it for the dignity of the country. And the subject of language is one of the main themes. The salvation – the salvation – of a language is shown in three things: its knowledge, its use and its status or its legal status. The knowledge of the català can say that it has a good salvation; the use, it is necessary to improve much, and in the legal state, in its recognition, it is lacking much. If we do what we do it for what it is; it is because there is a state that, for example, among other things, in the legal state of language, what it does is not just help but boost the salvation of language and not the normalization of language. Things that could be as obvious and obvious as the unit of language, things as obvious as the promotion in the European institutions of catalá are blocked and are dynamids for the State, among others. That, among other things, is what makes us do what we do right now. The renewal of the statutes is essential, as I was trying to say, for the different reasons there are. Seeking agreement with the various parliamentary groups and with the different federations and associations of municipalities, which are important actors in the composition of the consortium, is essential, and it is what reverses the point of transaction, to which we are pleased to be able to reach with the Socialist Group, which is the proposer, and with its will of dialogue. Therefore, our position is: absolutely agree, because this is the transaction we have already reached at the remaining point of the young man. Thank you, President. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.33.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Forn. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The lady is coming... if you want, Mrs. García Cuevas..., if you want to come out to defend the exams... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] With vulguin, with vulguin. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, everybody. Aviat will be thirty years from the creation of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization and, to be sure, has completed the task with writing. With the advent of democracy, here in Catalonia we had a band of people who, while keeping the català as their mother tongue, could not have studied in this language, with which they had difficulty knowing their normal use or to be able to write correctly. And, on the other hand, we had people coming from the rest of Spain who didn't know the català. Later, in the 1990s, we had various migrations of different countries, and in all three cases the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization was the tool because all the people who wanted to learn Catalan. The Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, as its own name indicates, is involved by various administrations, in this case Generality and Joints, but now the Government has submitted a modification that could be broken with the consent of the thirty years later. And this change has been made, therefore, in the way that we already have used to it together for the Yes, that is to say, by the unilateral way, without any dialogue or agreement, nor with the consortia or with the rest of the political forces. But, well, to a parliamentary group that claims to petition the Constitution and the Statute unilaterally, we are not going to ask them to start negotiating with each other, but the Socialist Party has brought us this reason that what they claim is precisely this, that the change of states, which is obviously to be done, is done in a dialogue and consensual way. So, obviously, we're going to give it support, and even more so after we've reached an agreement for an issue. But this problem is certainly not the hardest the consortium has. The most difficult problem the consortium has at these times is the precarious work of its professionals due to lack of funding. The Generalitat de Catalunya this year, and also in previous years, has given €1 million to Cultural Action of the Valencia Country, while the cultural offer in Catalonia is every month. The Generalitat this year, and also in previous years, has also given 120,000_euros to the Fundació Escola Valenciana with the proposal to promote the value of teaching and social use and 60,000_euros more to Cultural Work Ballear for activities promoting the Catalan language to the Balearic Islands, while the workers of the consortiums work in precarious conditions for lack of funding. The truth is that it costs a lot to hear that there is so much money for the teaching of catalá in the Valencian Community and in Balears, while these money is not for the promotion of catalá here in Catalonia. Because it's not that Spain robs us, it's that the Generalitat is dedicated to giving away our money! [[Rialles.]] And not only outside Catalonia, the rest of Spain, but also to France : they have dedicated..., they have given them, of the money of all Catalans, of our taxes, 400,000_euros to France for the school Bressola. While Catalan schools and entities, such as the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, suffer from chronic underfunding. We are talking about 2_million euros that each year the Generalitat gives, of our taxes, to the Valencian Community, to Balears and to France, while they hold in precarious conditions the workers of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. [[Some applause.]] We have presented a motion for a resolution in which we ask for something that seems to be very obvious: that it is no longer financing Cultural Action of the Valencian Country, the Valencian School Foundation and the Balearic Cultural Work and that it is no longer financing also..., to pay the credit mortgage of the building The Century in Valencia. Can you explain to me why we, of our money, have to pay a mortgage on a building in València? What we wear years and years and years paying for the reforms and mortgage of a building in València! [[Some applause.]] For what reason? While they have the Consortium's employees for Linguistic Normalization, but also the Barcelona museum workers, on the loose, because they are working on unacceptable conditions. It will be very good to see how many games that today say defending the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization vote because it is no longer enough to give money from all Catalans to other autonomous communities and other countries and it is here in Catalonia to pay our workers. In any case, returning to today's motion, it is a common sense motion that only calls for a unilateral change to be halted. And to see if it now comes out, they're voting in favour of halting a unilateral change and we're going to stop unilateralities in every aspect of it, because I, of you, would think: these two days were supposed to be their epic days; they didn't have anyone on the road supporting you, you assume to have the street on your side, they don't have anyone on their side. I look back and that of "the world looks at us..., look, even Dalí's fake daughter has had more international support, more to the press than you have. Reflection. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.35.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. Next is the words of María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.36.0	Well, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, Councillor, last December, speaking of linguistic policy, and with regard to the promotion of Catalan, the previous Councillor, Santi Vila, told us that "seduction is more effective than coercion, and we cannot agree more. The linguistic policy that we have always demanded from the People's Party of Catalonia in the Generalitat is a policy of positive encouragement, without impositions, without exclusions, that attracts and seduces, that does not coerce. We want Catalan in Catalonia, and also in the rest of Spain, to attract without political connotations, we want those who do not know him to come to learn what and to use it for pleasure, not for obligation, not for an imposition. We want the use of Catalan by anyone to be an expression of freedom and not of coercion, more or less explicit, because we understand that only from freedom are the options sincere and solidly underpin their effects. Because I assure you that with a policy of promoting open Catalan, depoliticized, positive, respectful of Spanish and individual freedom, many more people would use this language in their personal and professional relations, because Catalan would not be perceived as an imposed language, associated with barriers, fines, rights cuts and exclusion. But this is the perception of its linguistic policy, as a political tool, which has been achieved mainly to the detriment of the Catalan language, which has not advanced in its use what it should, considering the enormous economic and personal efforts employed for thirty years. That is why we do not agree with the statements of the PSC in its question that promoting Catalan should be a political project, nor that Catalan is and should be the language of all Catalans. The first is because the project, paid with public resources, must be for everyone: linguistic and cultural, let us not put politics, which is always partisan, and more in this government at the service of secession. And the second, because it is a fact, is evidence that Catalan is not the language of all Catalans, more than half of Catalans have Spanish as their mother tongue, with the same rights as the other half. Therefore, denying this reality and eradicating Spanish as a Catalan language so that Catalan is the language of all, is a project of fiction and imposition, which laminates the individual linguistic rights of more than half of the population that would want to have their official language renounced. They will be with me that this plan is neither kind nor attractive nor seductive to those who do not have Catalan as their mother tongue. Therefore, as we have been repeating, we add efforts and public resources so that anyone who voluntarily wants to learn Catalan can do it without cost, without renunciation, without politics. For this we have the Consorci per a la Normalizació Linguística, recently very none by the Government of the Generalitat, which prefers to invest in elements of rupture and exclusion, invading competences if necessary. Well, we demand for the consortium the resources and institutional dignity that correspond to a lawful and legal, constitutional and statutory tool, to bring Catalan closer to those who want to learn it or perfect it, because Catalan is not and will not be the language of all Catalans, but it belongs to us all as a cultural heritage. The greatest wealth of the consortium resides in its people and we understand that these workers should not and cannot be excluded from any modification in the functioning of the consortium that is intended to be successful. Therefore, by accepting the updating of the statutes of the consortium, we reject the unilateral and intolerant attitude of the Government, which has not accepted one of the contributions that the works council made to the working document. In fact, he didn't even bother to answer them. We believe that the process of drawing up new statutes must be more participatory and transparent and cannot exclude workers from the consortium. In short, we have proposed three amendments to the SGP. First, that the consultation process is limited to 15 September so that the statutory amendment is not too late when the positions are already clear, the only thing that needs to be done is to assess them. Secondly, that the consortium's works council be included in the round of consultations so that workers' contributions are considered for the proposal, with the same rank as the associations of municipalities or parliamentary groups do. And third, that under no circumstances does the statutory reform allow the Government to circumvent its commitment and fully assume Chapter I, of personnel costs, because guaranteeing its wages to workers is to guarantee the continuity and the work of the consortium. In conclusion, no amendment has been accepted or negotiated, so we in this motion will abstain from expressing our disagreement with the explicit exclusion of the works council from the final negotiated text. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. It has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. And before I started, I also wanted to do... I wanted to give my personal title a special thanks for the work that has been done these days, which have been especially complicated. And he says that. [[some applause]] , also – also – and by allusions and as in Valencia, I wanted to give a little reflection to Mrs. Sierra. Mrs Sierra, Catalonia and Valencia are Germans, and I can only thank Catalonia for the help they have sent us to promote Catalonia to Valencia. [[Greetings.]] I can only be grateful, because they have helped us to spend the night of the People's Party. That's just it. And I'm already referring to the motion – and forgive me, because I'm excited about this subject. [[the orator is clouded]] – everyone, I just wanted to thank Congressman Bruguera for this young man, who we think is appropriate, who we are already going to vote in favour. He explained it very well the other day during the inquiry: around the defense of language there has always been a consensus on the part of the majority of the Catalan people both for what he does to the linguistic immersion model and for what he does to the normalization consortium. And now, I'd add, now more than ever, they can't break these consensuses. And it's true that many of the modifications that are proposed for the status of the consortium are determined by law. Moreover, many had already done so, had joined in August 2015, but there are others who have a margin for dialogue, for consensus and for working in pleas. And that's where you have to listen to the municipalities, which are, from one band, the ones that are paying with escreix, despite the fact that the obligation of the financing of Chapter I, which is that of the staff, is of the Generality, and of the other they follow, despite all the money they have, with limitations at the time of developing and being able to put into the march programs and activities of their own. You, counsel, during your intervention, said that there were 129 municipalities in favour of the reform proposal and only if you were against it, but clearly, in these six we are talking about Barcelona, we are talking about Prat, we are talking about the Hospitallet, we are talking about Santa Coloma..., that is, we are talking about municipalities that have a very large demographic pesso, municipalities that are assuming competences very much in terms of their responsibilities, so as to arrive when the Generality does not come up. It is certain that now we are glad of the change of attitude that they are having, that they are open to dialogue, because we cannot hear it in any other way, because, if not, we believe that the common struggle is weakened in defense of a state structure like català. And it weakens when it is done in a unilateral way, as they were doing, as well as when we have workers and workers – which has also been mentioned earlier – in a situation of absolute precariousness, without covering vacancies, with periodic contracts and with compulsory reduced working hours; some professionals who, moreover, have not been consulted, only the proposal was submitted, but at no point did they ask their parents. And so they let us know, and that's why we're moving them. So, if what you want is the consolidation of the Catalan language, that I am convinced that yes, as we are, what we are asking is that we continue to work towards reaching agreements and consensus with all the actors involved, not just with the PSC, as Mr. Bruguera had already said before. And, at the same time, we believe that it is also essential to listen and guarantee decent working conditions for people who are left to defend the català every day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.39.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.40.0	Ben, good morning, everybody. Three pre-emptive considerations. It was the first time that in this country and in this very language that I was officiating, that I was Occitan, and that in this Parliament it systematically breaks down our debates, and this gives me the pity that I preach. It was a second thought. I don't know if I've lost my sense that certain groups of opposition can understand one day that it was our nation and the Catalans and that it's linguistic politics that sound, year of being at the top of the whole nation and that we've never left the Germans of this Valencian country, the Isles of Balearics, now Catalonia Nòrd, now the Gaza Strip. It's a..., and it's an acute series and it's a tanben goal of the current legislature: to work for freedom from all the countries of Catalonia, it was a nation of sancera. And it was a big deal. They want to be angry, they want to face each other, and they will use arguments that are ethnic in this language. No such difference between citizens living in Catalonia and speaking in Catalan, speaking in Castelhan or speaking in Occitan. We're all Catalans, we're living here, we're an inclusive society, and we don't want to be an ethnicist war that you're drinking some of these games from this opposition that you want to present face to face at the referendum on October 1st. Coming to the House, Mr Bruguera, you spoke: "consistent and consistent. And I thought, well, then beyond this coherence and consequence of this socialism in the late forty-eight hours, that I think it's Catalanist socialism that I didn't get in the way of it. [[the speaker assigns the right sector of the hemisphere]] Otherwise, I've got a month on my ass. [[the oradora does not set the left]] And what happens in Lheida? , what happens in Lheida's Linguistic Normalization Consorci, that we present this pre-pause of resolution eth 6 de març, with a pact damb Ciutadans ena paeria, where we are promoting bilingualism policies that are being charged–loading– today defend this Catalan language that you, as a citizen, are in the country..., even though it does not succeed at municipal level. And we ask them that and they get a pact at the level of the Consorci de Normalizacion Linguistica en Ponent, to avoid it was politicization of the institutions. How does a person who is breaking the linguistic model of the current country in the country of Lheida be able to preside eth Consorci de Normalizacion Linguistica de Ponent? And they won't. Therefore, it was the result of a national niveau not practicing yours at a local niveau. Of course, it's a dialogue. Talk to local authorities, consult with all local authorities. You've got to talk to the workers. It has to be noted, however, that in today's statues and age it was visible to be able to solve labor problems that many of them, provoked by lack of finance, were not able to cope with the dynamics of privatization of services, right? ; in my Tanben language there were practical agusts. In a word, we cannot oppose the adoption of a pact when the government has arrived, we have not and will not oppose it, all that we would like, in a public information period, to speak to the workers of this Knowledge of Linguistic Normalization. And you, Mr. Bruguera, have already finished talking about making now normal, and he has a problem with the fact that he does not have a normal parliamentary term – he does not have a normal. Many people saw that this legislature, it's committees, it's PR, it was all parliamentary dynamics, for two years ago they saw that it was normal. And after I did, after what I went through and did, it was normal, just as you understood it, there will never be. Because it was normal for her not to have to decide, not to vote, to prosecute this woman president, who is here after, the members of this Bureau, ath Government, the deputies, the mayors and mayors, all of you would want it to be 1 October if you want, this is not normal for her. On the contrary, we would very much like it to remain normal. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.41.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. To pronounce on the papers has the word Mr. Bruguera. [[Pause.]] Mr. Rafel Bruguera, it's his turn to pronounce on the papers. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.42.0	I'm sorry, President. To Mrs Boya I'd say three things very quickly. First, the first parliamentary group that this legislature has put forward some proposal on the aranès was the one I represent at these times – u. Two: speaking of the aranes, the law that was approved yesterday, you forgot it, and you had to self-examining. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes: they had forgotten it and they had to self-examining. [[Greetings.]] And third: we defend municipal autonomy, we do not defend manipulation at the local level. [[Widow's remorse.]] To Mrs. García Cuevas. Mrs. García Cuevas, without any controversy, September 15th is impossible, we're at the 11th, huh? It's impossible that we can come to a sensible agreement with everyone's participation. As far as the committee is concerned, I have said that we must meet and agree from the political and social points of view. The third: be calm, Chapter I is perfectly incardinated and forms part of one of the articles of the new statutes of the consortium, because it has been, if not the first, one of the first demands of our parliamentary group. If the language can speak, if the Catalan language or the language can speak, I would say: "Leave me alone, do not use me politically. So I don't want to get into polemics. Simply, clearly, the Catalan language is the language of all Catalans, because it is the heritage of all Catalans, the same way that the castle is the heritage and the language of all Spanish. And respect for..., to end, it is true, Mr Forné, you are right when you speak of Europe, etcetera, of the State... But the precariousness of the workers of the consortium and the lack of resources is not the fault of the Spanish State or Europe ; we have made ourselves alone, and sometimes quite badly. Anyway, I want to keep the positive side. There's been an agreement, I think it's a positive agreement, and I hope that from now on, a few days or a few weeks, we can come to a satisfactory agreement for everyone. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.43.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Sierra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.44.0	Direct references, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.45.0	Thirty seconds, Mrs. Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.46.0	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, to Mrs Boya, I am very glad, that I gave up trying to convince myself of king over nations, because neither I nor my party are nationalists. We consider those who have rights to be people, not territories. And to Mrs. Albiach, you've got to look very good that it's for the money of all Catalans to a building. We consider ourselves to be more than these moneys vagrant to the workers and not to make reforms and to pay mortgages of expensive buildings. And then two years ago you ran the Valencian Courts, and the Generalita sent them money. Is your party not able to finance the català properly? You're making them look like you're doing it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.47.0	Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.48.0	Allusions and contradictions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.49.0	Thirty seconds, Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.50.0	Thank you. With regard to the exclusion of the workers' works council from this motion in order to be able to contribute within the negotiations of the new statute..., I have no doubt that Mr Bruguera has no desire to exclude them, but the reality is that no compromise has been reached; neither have we been accepted by the amendment nor have we been willing to negotiate with us. We already assume that the PSC has no intention of excluding the workers, we assume that it will have been an imposition of the governing group, of the Group of Junts pel Si, which is who will have wanted to exclude the company committee. And, as I said, for this reason, because we do not believe that it is correct or are for exclusion, we are going to abstain in this motion. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.51.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. We're voting for the lady. The vote begins. The Movement on the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization has been approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the future decree of school teachers]] [[302-00181/11]] The fourteen points of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the future decree of school teachers, presented by the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot. To expose it, the word "Jessica Albiach" has. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] They know that, as always, they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence in order to continue with the session. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Albiach, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.52.0	Yes, thank you, President. In order to put a small part of this young man, because it has been so many weeks since we asked the question that I think it is appropriate to put it in context: Catalonia has a decree of school teachers which is from the year 1996 and which is completely out of date; the Education Department had initiated a process of input from different actors involved in drawing up a new decree, and that July came to the hands of families and trade unions is an internal working document from the department where no one singled out of the proposals that the educational community had made, and did not respond in absolute terms, to the demands and needs that had been made. In fact, this document had against Acelec, it had against the families and it had against the unions; that is, it had against everyone, less the big enterprises. And, before this reality – and knowing that this document was still a blur and that, therefore, it was not official – we have tried to be useful and to bring the situation back. And it seems that, with the help of the different parliamentary groups of this chamber, we are succeeding. It also shows that what we are planting is nothing new; in fact, it had already been presented for my partner Joan Mena in the previous legislature; the motion of Mrs Niubó also collected a good part of the proposals, and we are simply acting as a channel for the proposals of the families and the rest of the educational community. Many times it is only about this: to listen and to be the voice in the Parliament of the people who are on the street. We went from a working document from the department where it was only talking about families at the point of economic management, which did not take into account the quality of the food or the working conditions of educators, or the external control of the service, and which, moreover, did not refer to students with special educational needs, to a movement that links the right to food with equality and social justice, which protects them from the economic interests of large multinationals and which, moreover, presents quality, proximity and socio-educational criteria. And, quite briefly, in the text that we propose, we look at the school beggar as a free and universal right; yes, I do understand that there can be a transition period of about five years, if there were to be enough aid and scholarships for all children and children who need it. We also want to ensure that all the educational centers can be used as a fooder from the proper course. We give stardom to families and their right to manage the beggar; we think that who better than families to feed their infants still goes to school. We guarantee that the professionals who serve as school waiters have a specific training and, moreover, that they have decent working conditions, because until now the precariousness of the sector has been brutal. In addition, we propose a participatory process to define the maximum rates of students per monitor. And we guarantee free competition and equal opportunities so that the whole business is not in the hands of the big multinationals as it was going on so far. And that would be the content of the young man on big terms. And I believe that, if we are able to agree and approve it, we will have a decree of school teachers that favors food sovereignty, that favors economic sovereignty, that puts people in the center and, moreover, protects the rights of infants and their families. That is why he is voting in favour of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.53.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.54.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. As Mrs Albiach has explained to us, the ruling of the fooder currently in force is 1996 and it is very obvious that it has to be updated. And this is a shared concern for the whole educational community. Mrs. Ruiz, before you let go of the carrec or the fessin' out, right? , which..., the Department of Education has had a pass at the side because it seems that they want to do things that may not be entirely right, and they have decided that, by personal means, they have either left the car or they're out – we'll never know. And Mrs. Ruiz said that the Department of Education's intention was to reach consensus on the future decree. And yes, the truth is that they have found a broad consensus: they have managed that everyone is against the fumany they have presented. This is an ability that the Government of Joints has for the Yes, and it is only to recognize this ability; they have the ability to put everyone in agreement against what they propose. Yesterday and before yesterday, the last forty-eight hours, we have had different examples of how all the opposition – representing more votes..., much as you have more votes, representing more votes, more Catalans who are in favour of what we propose not of the Government of Juntes for the Yes and its members of the CUP –..., they have managed that people who think very differently arrive at agreements. And, even so, we applaud each other. Because we think we need to find the one who unites us and not the one who separates us. We think it's good to reach agreements with everyone. And what do we find at the Junts bench for the Yes? So, I saw a councilwoman, who is supposed to be the councillor of all Catalans and not of the ANC, pointing out the opposition policies because we applaud a company. I don't know about you, ma'am; my home has always been explained to me that to signify is very rude. Returning to the decree, as I said, they have managed to put the entire educational community, the AMPAs and the enterprises of beggars against their proposal. And that's why all these agents have come into contact with the different parliamentary groups to reach agreement with us, since with you it's not possible. As Mrs Albiach said, basically, what this young man does – and another one that he had presented to us, from the Socialist Group – is to make a bearer of the concerns that you are not able to listen and obey. The document they have submitted is an ambiguous document, which sets out a sequence of possibilities that are not easily concrete, with phrases as little concrete as when circumstances advise it or ‘ whenever possible. And this lack of achievement makes me fold all the way into paper so that there's no real commitment to it. The same goes for the training of monitors and their working conditions, which remain unconcrete. There is also no reference to staff specialising in students with special educational needs. While this Parliament has approved a motion for a resolution and a motion, the two Juntes for the Yes..., another whole time the opposition has agreed against what the Department of Education is doing, and both the motion for a resolution as in the motion asked what is obvious, what is just and necessary: staff specialized for students with special educational needs. Currently, in Catalonia, to give an example, students who have autistic spectrum cannot stay to dinar to most of the teachers of public and concert schools in Catalonia. That's a shame, it's absolutely unfair and discriminating. When I went to know I couldn't believe that was true. So, that's what happens in Catalonia, that students with special educational needs can't stay to dinar to the beggars. Despite having our proposals approved, the department does not do anything, nor does it do anything to try to end this injustice. As I said, this document is a eraser, and that's why the agents have been trying to get in touch with us to try to solve these problems that don't solve the eraser they've presented. The service of a school waiter is an indispensable tool for conciliation, this conciliation which seems to be that these days here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, shined for his absence, after the time we dedicated to this committee for the clock reform pact; it seems that these days this has been forgotten a little. So, well, this problem of conciliation is met by many Catalan families every day, and the Department of Education, in accounts of favoring the creation of us beggars, all the contrary, what it does is that every time there are fewer beggars in secondary school. And that has some bad consequences. Surely, the worst of all is that students who have economic problems and who have a food grant end up with social food; the image of students, children, thirteen-year-olds, fourteen-year-olds, alone with a school food worker breaks the color, and they do nothing to solve it. Madam Counselor, you told the meeting with the syndic that you recognized that the hardest problem I had teaching in Catalonia was segregation. It's all right; the honor that we once have a counselor who doesn't say we have a success model, but a model that segregates. So, well, the school cook also has to see this school segregation. Put the wire to the needle and start working for a decree that's just for everyone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.55.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To expose and defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.56.0	Well, thank you, Vice President. Deputies, councillor, good morning. Thank you in the first place in Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, to Congresswoman Albiach, to insist on the need of the food service as a trunk service, very important in the education system, which, although not to be part, therefore, of the lectual time, it does form part of the educational time and must therefore be integrated into the curriculum of children until secondary school. Thanks, therefore, to repeat, to insist on the need for all schools, including the institutes, to be able to have the food service from the proper course. I do not think that, with the Socialist Group, we are more in favour of the motion presented by this Member of Parliament being complicated, are we not? , a few months ago, which urged the government to recover this food service from all institutes in this course that will begin a few days from now. But, well, so much good, so I'm more lucky than we are and I'm getting the government's commitment to complimenting this new mandate. But, nevertheless, I cannot say that some group of this House does not have a great deal of shame to justify the failure of the House to comply with the demands of the Socialist Group a few years ago, for lack of time, because of the government's organizational difficulties in bringing it to term. But, of course, in a change of heart, that is to say, to organize a pseudo-referendum on October 1, jumping to the bullring, not just the Rules of this chamber – the Statute of Autonomy, the Council of Statutory Guarantees... – to complete, say, a mandate of the people. So, well, that was also a people's warrant and they put it through the lining. But, anyway, this is like we're here. But, as I said, we would vote in favour of this motion's joint motion which, although it does not add much novelty, respects the previous motions mentioned by Mrs Albiach, and which we might have written differently, so obviously, it is still pointing to the same objective. So good, this time on, the Government is committed to presenting during this course the update of the 1996 Decree for which is regulated the service of school fooder with the maximum consent of the educational community, which is not exactly what they have been doing in the last few months, and so – Mrs Albiach has explained very well – it has done more quickly to the educational community. The Socialist Group has presented two points to this motion. A first one relates to point 6 of the motion, which has not been accepted, but which we like the transaction to which has been reached together for the Yes, in the sense of allowing the centers, directly or by means of the AMP, to manage the food service, without imposing it, but to allow it. And a second question, concerning point 7, that we have managed to make, and we appreciate it, to ensure that the professionals who provide this service, therefore, have a specific training; to promote a better level of working conditions and to end the precariousness of the sector, and, above all– and this is added–, ensuring the provision of the specific profiles to meet this student with special educational needs that, as has also been mentioned, at these times are excluded from this service, and so we see when we know concrete cases, that in this sense they do not guarantee specific attention during this time. It also seems relevant to us that it insists on the importance of setting maximum rates of students per professional for the performance of this service in all educational stages that allow this good attention of the student and the realization of a pedagogical task during an educational time. And this, which we understand cannot be defined by us, but by the experts – therefore, it also seems to us as well as this point – must be with the objective of guaranteeing, therefore, the quality of this educational service and ending the current problems of mass education for school children. Therefore, what we are defending and hoping is that, in the end, this motion will be approved, that they will be taken into account; that the Government is committed to reviewing and updating the existing decree of 96, which is prior to the LEC; that it will not, as I said, do so in the educational community, as we have experienced in the last few months; that it will recover the service of fooder to secondary school, in order to reverse the hardship that it supposes that at these times many students, when they start ESO, so months after having not only the service, but also the help, they lose them directly, and that it is also compromising to complete the protocol of child malnutrition, publishing the data annually. So, as I said, I wish this young man was successful and that the government was different from what we are used to, so I am pleased. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.57.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. There is the word, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, the deputy Mr Antoni Balasch, to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.58.0	Thank you, President. She will advise, Members and Members, allow me, before I enter the speech that..., the speech or the concepts that she wanted to break up according to the young man, that I already appreciate the negotiation capacity of the deputy Jessica Albiach, without renouncing the commitment but also sharing the will of the parliamentary group and also of the department, as I will soon mention. And, therefore, thank this effort, like the other groups in the chamber. And, therefore, the proof is that there are many accepted items presented for Junts for the Yes and there are many accepted transactions as well, according to Junts for the Yes. Therefore, this great discrepancy which has been pointed out until now I assume that it does not have to be. I would like to say three or four comments depending on what has been said so far. First, someone said: "Tothom agrees to stand against what Junts proposed for the Yes. I suppose that's why 2,400,000 people voted 9-N, I suppose that's why every 11th of September comes out the people who come out, I suppose there's 80_percent of citizens in Catalonia who want the reference..., for something must be. To answer a mike. And then I would also like to say a very clear thing: when someone is less likely to be part of a civic organization, they are directly anti-democracy; and that's it. Obviously, I would also like to say that if it is said that the approved motion has not been completed a few plenarys..., obviously, if it does a few plenarys..., the content of a motion so long and more endorsed and voted in favour of all the folds, is impossible, among other things, because the same department when it spoke of implementing the new decree of women spoke of course 18-19. Therefore, these terms have always been discussed. And I'm starting a little something with the stuff I wanted to explain to you right now. All children with recognizable needs have food aid; first principle. All children with recognized needs have food aid. Second, the decree is from '96, it's been passed by the government since '96, and no one has changed it, and now it's required. And why? So, because it's a decree of enormous complexity, very big, because..., management of local councils; of joints; of AMPAs, whether they do it directly or indirectly, and there are no centers. Maybe it's easier if we do what some people do in some area, they say... it's all central and it's the government's hand and it's all the same. But it's not the model we want, because we're supporters and we want a territorial balance, and we want specific responses for every child and every context. There are many cases, many cases. I know a very small municipality where the AMPA uses the restaurant on the side of the school to give the food, and the parents are not happy, they are delighted, and therefore we have to look for each place the solution that it touches. A very complex decree; therefore, we are here, and the department is working on this new decree. And it was said, and it is a compromise of the former councillor and of the current councillor – which he said in appearance and in the inquiry also said – to push him and, therefore, to tend to get there by the 18-19 course. And there was a lot of joint reflection: gatherings, district councils, centre addresses, AMPA, lleure, etc. And with associations of municipalities as well. And, therefore, very complex. And from the September 16th to the February 17th, it was exposed openly and there were contributions – thirty – and now bilateral meetings are being held with each of the entities, because this complexity is not fast, but it will approach and is addressing, and so it will. And what does this decree want, what do they want? So, u: the food quality, which we share; the design of the menus by dietitians, for pediatricians, that there are many centers, not to mention all, that they already do and is done on their own initiative, and that the same department already has a reference center, so, because everyone who wants to consult it. Therefore, quality of products. Another criterion is the educational quality of the service with specific training, and therefore that it is part of the educational project; obviously, shared, we agree. Contractual security for schools and providers; we also want it. We also want transparency in awards and, in these awards, we want positive discrimination, as I said, but we have to take more account of the fact that there must be endorsements, there must be assurances, because there is responsibility; if there is a problem with fooders, there is responsibility. Therefore, all this has to be structured and well. And, therefore, we also want to guarantee, above all, the access in conditions of equity, which means access for everyone, but which does not mean free for everyone, and here is the discrepancy, which is in point 3, model discrepancy. We're betting on a model that's social pricing; you bring and offer a model that's free for everyone in point 3. With this, you claim to favor whom you have the most, and this is a decline in solidarity, because who else is in the same condition as who has the least, therefore, favors the classes that most can of society, to the families that have the best economic structure. And this also creates a lot of problems, if they want to hear about it, of sustainability, it has a lot of problems of economic sustainability, so it has a lot of problems. And then we opt for social pricing, because this yes, for us, is a more supportive model, which has more, more paid – which has more, more paid – is a model that allows the social ascent. So, we work for equity. It's a model that allows..., and teach that things aren't gifts, that it's important too, that. It's a model that allows everyone's access to service in a sustainable way for the community and it's a model that allows..., according to the economic capacity of each family structure, of each income level. So, we in all this... And you know – let me, president, two seconds to finish – that with point 3 also breaks the agreement of the LEC, the agreement of the LEC that talks about scholarships and says, for example, therefore, that with the scholarships it will guarantee this equity. So, break this deal, and I especially regret that the groups, like the PSC, that were going to be palar de la LEC, that today give up, which I don't think should be done. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.59.0	Thank you, Congressman. To fix the position of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, Ms María José García Cuevas has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.60.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, we were told by the Counsellor in the question before this motion that consensus in this decree would not be easy. I believe that the Council is wrong, precisely the experience of the various resolutions that we have been adopting on school canteens this legislature and also the past show the broad level of consensus that exists on this issue between the different political groups, groups that are a reflection of the society that voted for us, and we also reflect the consensus of society. This is simply a matter of common sense and when party or government interests do not interfere, it is quite easy to reach sensible agreements that guarantee the good and the best for students during the time spent in school and also during the dining room. It is a matter of common sense and I believe that it is also a trunk principle shared by many of us: working and contributing from different political positions for the welfare and protection of our children. Universal and free access to education is a constitutional right that the Administration must preserve and that would be mutilated if all activities occupied by school time, including non-compulsory activities, such as the dining room, were not guaranteed. A service that must obviously be, like any other quality educational activity, integrated in the educational project of the center and meeting the specific demands of students with diagnosed food disorders or special educational needs. We believe that it is important that a quality educational service is inclusive, also the dining room, which means that any student, whether he or she requires special attention or food, must be able to feel integrated in the dining room, without tensions, naturally. For this purpose, the dining room service should include menus not only designed by experts and made with proximity and seasonal products, but also respect the intolerances or food needs prescribed by a doctor. We also believe that the centres should have monitors with the specific profiles required by pupils with special educational needs in the dining room, and that specific training should be provided to the other monitors, facilitating the inclusion of these pupils also in the dining time. For this reason, the ratio of pupils per monitor proposed by the motion, which already seems to us to be good, we believe that they should be adapted and modified in the case of pupils with special educational needs. With regard to the first points of the motion, we share them with some nuances, we are in favour of participation and transparency in the drafting of the new decree, so we ask the adviser to present it to the entire educational community. We do not think the exclusions that the department has practiced during the period of consultation and drafting of the draft, denounced in the inquiry, and which have also reached my group and others, do not seem correct. We explicitly ask the councillor to appear in committee to present us to the groups the new decree before approving it, because experience shows us that the opacity with which the department processes its decrees does not interest us, as we have the example of the decree of inclusiveness, which we do not yet know when to approve it or the definitive content, even though we have asked in writing, in plenary, we have presented motions for resolutions, interpellations, motions, amendments in resolutions of general policy, budgets... With regard to point 4, all centres must have a dining room. We believe that this obligation should exclude unagreed private individuals and apply where there is demand from families. And above all to accompany economic and technical assistance to the centers, because if a center does not have this space planned or has to adapt the kitchen area... If the department requires that a service that was not planned be provided, it must help so that it can be provided in conditions and reserve public funds for it. With regard to point 6, we consider it a positive and guaranteeing element for families to organize themselves to serve as a dining room, but we do not believe that their offer should necessarily go ahead with the others. We ask for the same guarantee of transparency and free competition for all, so we prefer the transaction that has been agreed. In short, and with the nuances we have expressed, we will support the motion presented to us by Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. We are grateful, above all, for the opportunity to re-examine this issue, to learn more about the new decree, and, above all, to thank the proposing group for incorporating our concerns into the text, so that we can all successfully carry out our opposition work by putting to the Government consensus actions on such an important issue as this one of dining rooms. Because, in the end, guaranteeing universal, real, effective access for all, on equal opportunities to education is to do so in every small plot that makes up time, activity and educational space. And to pursue this goal is not only a question of educational quality, but also of equity, thus laying the foundations, from school, for a more just and more egalitarian society. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.61.0	Thank you, Mrs García Cuevas. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.62.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, first of all, we didn't present a statement to the House because from the beginning it was our intention to give support to its totality, so now we'll also do it with agreed transactions, so as long as we share it in content and in shape. I will, however, take advantage of some aspects of the motion and the debate that surround it, which seem particularly relevant to us. In the first place, as we have already said, and here we are, we want to celebrate that the department, which the government has finally withdrawn – I understand that it has been – this working document, which actually pretended to be, I think very loosely, a first draft of what was to be after the decree. And we celebrate it because we think it was a mistake in content and also for the concertation procedure that had been tried hard to finish from this document. Look, it's a paradox that the conjunction of the educational community, represented through the MUCE, is unanimously against this document, and, in change, that the great providers are in agreement and, moreover, have been consulted in the first instance. He will advise, therefore, to say that to us it seems a huge democratic anomaly and he calls attention to the fact that in such a central proposal it turns out that the educational community does not feel concerned about the debate and, in change, the great providers, the oligopolistic providers, so they do not only agree with the settlement but also have a position of privileges at the time of being consulted. We think that this has to be exactly the opposite, that is to say, you have to come up with a proposal that responds to the needs and objectives of the educational community – if you want, to the client, to the demand – and, in any case – in any case – later and later, it will be the offer that will be adapted, and the offer that will not be adapted. And what needs to be adapted to? So, obviously, to criteria of universality, public criteria, of democratic and participatory management in the centers, of food sovereignty, of nutritional quality, of proximity, of ecology, etcetera. And the provider who does not want or is not able to adapt to these criteria, must simply stay out, obviously. We know that this is not just an educational debate, that it is an economic and management debate for what it does to public services. Indeed, we think that what it is to agree in this case with the educational community, and it seems to us that it is worrying that on the part of the department this procedure has been followed as strange as it may be rejected that, I insist, the providers were the first to know the plans, before the educational community. Well, I will not dwell on the issue of the deficiencies that this proposal posed and that I hope we have occasion to correct for what it does to the special educational needs, and, obviously, for what we bet – and for this reason we have wanted to give some support to this young man – it is for a food service conceived as an educational service, as a public education service, of universal access, which guarantees nutritional equality for all the school population. And I will end by saying that, precisely thanks to the decisions taken by this Parliament yesterday, we can start a process of dismissal of the 78th rule and of establishing a new democratic regime of the Catalan Republic, and we have no doubt that we have hope and that we will be in the first line that this is being done, we hope that this will bring about a social debate, a great social participation, a great intensification of social struggles on the part of all the agents and social movements, which will allow us to address a process that constitutes a republic that will actually guarantee this change, this removal of the 78th rule and this new education of the new Catalan republic. And, in this sense, we will bet on a universal, public, free education system; not as there are now four levels – public school divided into first and second level public school, concerted school, private school – but for an education system that truly guarantees equality for everyone. It is to say that all the inequalities that are generated at the origin of society pass through a series of public institutions that guarantee that, from here, the population becomes equal and accesses the social system again under conditions of absolute equality and of total segregation. In this system, obviously, the education system will have a central role so that it is one of the machines that eliminate inequality and eliminate segregation, because the current school system is also the 78th rule and we also want to remove it, and therefore, it will be an opportunity to go further, to overcome what is the experience and content of the LOMCE and also of the LEC. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.63.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.64.0	Now, it seems so... thank you, President. Very briefly, only to thank the contributions of the different parliamentary groups, PSC, Ciutadans and the Popular Party; to also thank the support given to us by the CUP - Constituent Creed, and to thank the change of attitude of Junts for the Yes, because the truth is that they have gone from presenting and distributing a document, which was not official, that was a blur, but that existed and that came into the hands of the educational community, which no one shares, to entering into reason and beginning to listen to the educational community. Mr. Balasch, you said that you bet for social fare for the cook. Do they also want social fees for school? Because I remind him that the teacher forms part – and so we said – of the time of education and form part, it is a more hourly band, of the school day. Therefore, we believe that it must be free and universal, just as it must be the rest of the school day. And, besides, that's in the European countries of reference in public education. And just ask the government not to follow one of the many motions that is left in a cove, but now, that we seem to be reaching consensus and agreement, serve to have a decree of serving as a school cook who, as I said before, favored food sovereignty, economic sovereignty and put people at the centre of decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.65.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.66.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.67.0	Mr. Balasch, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Not anymore? [[Pause.]] Okay. We're voting for the lady. A separate vote has been requested on point 3. So, first we'll vote on point 3 and then the rest of the motion. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 45 votes to 59, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the future decree of school teachers was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the challenges of security policy]] [[302-00182/11]] The fifteenth item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the challenges of security policy presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Esperanza García" has. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, they already know that they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, so that they can continue with the session. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Garcia, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.68.0	Thank you, President. The motion we are presenting today is part of an inquiry we made at the last plenary session in July. And we will announce in advance, in case there is any confusion or misuse of this motion, that we thank, from the People's Party, very sincerely, all the work done by the state security forces and bodies, both of the local police – Barcelona Urban Guard, Cambrils Local Police, Ripoll Local Police –..., National Police, Civil Guard and Mossos d'Esquadra, for their task to defend the freedoms of all of us as a result of the terrorist attacks of August. Having said that, and giving thanks in advance for this effort dedicated without rest and unconditionally of our forces and security bodies of the State, what this motion deals with is precisely to defend freedom and our rule of law; in short, where we develop our society in democracy, in a healthy democracy. This motion is therefore not a motion derived from that terrorist attack. And I want it to be very clear. This is a motion that seeks exactly to express in this legislative chamber, in this institution, Parliament's commitment to freedom, to security, to justice, to equality, to legality, in short, to the essential values of democracy; a commitment that requires renewal every day; yes, renewal every day, because you yesterday and before yesterday broke democracy. And, therefore, this motion, what you seek, is that you defend that supreme value, that supreme value that we must defend all those who we call ourselves democrats. Because, without security, there is no freedom; because, without legality, there is neither equality nor justice; because, without law, there is no democracy, no rights, no security, no equality, no freedoms. That is what we propose here today. So we ask you not to stop at the tragedy of the August attack and be able to express firmly and forcefully that you bet on it, for continuing to live in freedom and democracy, in a healthy democracy. We understand that the CUP cannot share those values, among other things, because, well, they believe in a kind of society as advanced as those that have starred, and with vandalic acts, during this month of August, and that dream, I don't know if utopian, I don't know if infraevolved, of living in tribes, don't we? , but the reality is that we hope that the rest of the parliamentary groups will be able to support this motion, which is not excessive, after what has happened in the last two days. The institutions help us to preserve decency, yes, decency; democratic quality, and also, ultimately, are the measure of the evolution of our society. Let us see how evolved we are, let us see how evolved we have our society, by the type of quality of our institutions. It is we, in the end... institutions cannot defend themselves, it is we who have to defend ourselves and it is we who cannot trample on the values and meaning of our institutions. You, yesterday, to this Parliament, took away your dignity, and before yesterday, too. Let's hope they don't do it again today. Councillor Forn, since taking office, has been the councillor of the referendum; he has dedicated himself to saying that the Mossos d'Esquadra would guarantee the holding of a referendum and, despite the fact that it is the Mossos d'Esquadra themselves who defend their legality and their measured performance with the rule of law, Mr Forn has continued to say so. Look, the Mossos d'Esquadra are not the lead soldiers of the referendum councillor. I hope that they will show today that they are up to the level of democracy we enjoy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.69.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the words of Mr. Carlos Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.70.0	Thank you, President. Consellera – I am sorry not to see the Councillor of the Interior in this intervention – Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament..., I would like to start my speech today with a sentence that several colleagues from different police forces sent me during the days following the terrible attacks in Barcelona ; I quote textual: "Today the police run in the opposite direction to what you run. Don't forget about it tomorrow. Surely many citizens will soon forget about this, even some who have already forgotten. But those of us who cannot forget these words and must always have the very, very present are us, the public representatives. Our police officers have the main function of defending our rights and freedoms, and ensuring our security, and we, the one hundred and thirty-five deputies of this chamber, have, among other functions, the task of ensuring the safety of our police officers. From Citizens I assure you that we have always had it and we have it very, very present. For this reason, apart from showing, both publicly and privately, our deepest and sincere thanks to each of the members of the security forces and bodies, we have requested that the Parliament Medal of Honor, apart from being given to the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Barcelona Urban Guard and the Local Police of Cambrils, be given also to the Civil Guard, the National Police and the rest of the police who served those days. Although from Citizens we believe that no distinctions should be made by police force, today, if I may, I would like to make a special mention for their professionalism, good doing and temperance to the Body of the Mossos d'Esquadra, to the Urban Guard of Barcelona, and, of course, to the Local Police of Cambrils, body to which I still belong, and I am very proud of it. [[Greetings.]] Look, in order to guarantee our safety, it is necessary that our police officers do not lack any means, whether material or human. How can local cops not have long guns? If it doesn't happen because the Mossos d'Esquadra patrol that repelled the attack in Cambrils had a long gun, we would be talking about a much bigger tragedy. Look, in the Balearic Islands, local cops have been carrying long guns for a long time. And in Valencia it has recently been approved that they can carry them. What are we waiting for here? What's up, we got first-rate cops and second-rate cops in Catalonia? How can it be that our policemen are not given sufficient training, except for the training that is given at the academy, or that they are paid out of their pockets? Let us not say, already, in the formation of anti-terrorist matter. How can it be that there are not enough cops on our streets and that those who have to work twelve hours in a row, and even double shifts? How can there be no bulletproof vests in every police station in Catalonia? How can the port police not carry firearms? They were serving two hundred meters where the Barcelona bombing took place, and colleagues explained to me that the agent came running to the port and asked them for help. How will port police provide this service and assistance to a terrorist attack or similar situation if they do not carry a firearm? We are putting the lives of citizens and the police themselves at risk. I could continue with a long list of needs of our public servants, but I would take much longer than I have left. Look, we are obliged among all political parties and all administrations to give immediate solution to all these needs. We are obliged to rethink, among all of us, the police model we need for these new times that run. They, our public servants, are the ones who have played the skin, the ones who have played the life to protect us all. They and other emergency services: doctors, nurses, firefighters, civil protection, and a longetcetera. That is why we have tabled an amendment to the motion before us today, since the original text did not quote the rest of the emergency services that worked in a coordinated and exemplary way to minimize as much as possible the brutal attacks caused in Barcelona and Cambrils. This collective also deserves our deepest thanks, that like the police, they provide a vital service to all citizens and sometimes in situations of job insecurity, with fewer means than they should have; yet, they do a commendable and praiseworthy job. From the Parliamentary Group of Citizens we demand both the Government of the Generalitat and the Government of the nation to maintain a loyal position between institutions and we must never again regret the media noise that has been generated by purely political interests that have no place at such critical times as those experienced recently. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.72.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. We have the feeling that the CUP is often asked directly in this Parliament; it is to say, at the control sessions, the rest of the parliamentary spaces. I'd remind you that we don't rule or rule this, huh? I'm saying that because we're constantly being questioned. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you for giving us this political transcendence; the independenceist left appreciates it, that you give us so much transcendence, but I repeat to you that this questioning the CUP seems to me that it does not enter the game of this Parliament. You're asking us a question about the recognizance of the security features, a question you see in July. We are responding with a point that completely modifies the text of the article, and what it proposes is to make a monographic ple on the Barcelona and Cambrils tempts, because we understand that it is one of the questions that the country is currently most concerned about in terms of security, but it turns out that now you are changing the feeling of the young man, or Mrs. Hope has said that she was not about the tempts, and she has defended the bones and the security forces for herself, thus, as a single idea. Well, we'll vote against it. First, because it doesn't seem opportune; it seems empty to us; it seems to us that this country has very complex security issues to solve. We have made a proposal on the table, which we have not been told, but we understand that we are being denied it. In the second place, of course, we have two days to hear them, and you have repeated the word 'democracy' a lot, a lot of times. In fact, "democracy and supreme value of the State of right and birth, has been a repeated phrase for various groups of this chamber and especially for the People's Party. We tried to explain it yesterday and we'll put it back on the table today. That's an oxymoron. It is to say, that you use democracy to oppose a referendum process, which is the logical basis of a democratic model, is totally contradictory. And, therefore, it's absurd in logical terms. And if you want us to talk about security and management that has made your political party that governs this state of law that as much as they want to protect, we can talk to you. We can start with the tempts and ask ourselves about the mystery of Ripoll's imam, which turns out that the Mossos were not in the case of 'ilvigilating. We can continue to filter over the CIA at a time, The Newspaper – not just to store it, it knows all over the country – and it is a filter coming from the Intelligence Centre where there is Commissioner Olivera, who is also close to the Catalonia operation. We can talk about what you've just done now and what you've done for two days, which is to use your security, not just Catalans, but also those of the Spanish State, as a threat. Or do what his government has been doing – and in many cases his parliamentary group – about what happened to Barcelona and Cambrils, about the tempts, which is, I would say – and excuse the expression – ‘traffic with pain. The pain doesn't play. We can talk about migration policy and systemic assassinations on the southern border that are donated in this country. We can talk about rights and freedoms. And, for example, from the imposition of the law bites, to protesters, to pressure and to everything that is moved into a dissidence clause. And if you want to talk about the independence process and the ridiculous that you made yesterday some Civil Guard agents planted at a Constanti press. A closer image of past times than 2017. Or we can talk about the demonstration of strength made by the agents of the Civil Guard yesterday in Berga and Manresa, armed for the street. Mirin, the threats in the context of freedom and an irresponsible security policy..., and repeats "irresponsible because it is a security policy that does not propose and does not solve, only imposes itself and is permanently viewed as a value per se. To us, before that, they will tend ahead, because we understand that it is a totalitarian logic, a vertical logic, a threatening logic, that is imposing itself on a popular political proposal, that is to vote in this country. It's a totalitarian logic. And we'd like to end Hannah Arendt, who for us is a philosophical and phonenal referent when we talk about totalitarianism. Hannah Arendt said – and I finish, President – that while total domination has not conquered the Earth and converted its iron ring of terror into double function as the essence of the government and as beginnings, not action, but movement, cannot be completely realized. So we'll raise your eyes one time and another. And we will stand before their tanks, whether physical or argumentary, because we understand that it is the best antidote to totalitarianism. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.73.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. The words of Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.74.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Well, let me start by saying that it's a big deal that we don't go through with this room getting unanimous on a subject like this. It's a real big deal. I told Mrs. Esperanza García that this young man is not derived from the tempts. So, it's a shame, because I was going to congratulate him, I was going to congratulate him. I think that the initial tone of the inquiry was not the right one; I think that they have returned... – Carlos Sánchez also highlighted it –, they have somehow recovered the institutional tone and the necessary loyalty in a topic such as security. I think we should stay on this path. This grace is needed and this cry they make. May this sincere and profound gratitude for the reaction of all, which they all had and each of the emergency services. Even the Bombers of Barcelona I remember they wanted, at that moment, to go out and help in everything they could. For their personal quality, in particular, if I may, because this movement goes to security, to the forces and security forces, in concrete to Mossos d'Esquadra, the Local Police of Cambrils and the Urban Guard of Barcelona. Especially that of Cambrils, I want them to send a huge hug, for their effort and for their professionalism, which surely avoided a tempt of much greater proportions. It also draws conclusions of respect. I think we need to get better; I think I need to learn 'n' to prevent this from happening again. Steps must be taken to learn, all folds, from disgrace. For this reason we proposed at an initial moment to hold meetings, to hold a parliamentary meeting to discuss the questions of the tempts in the way of prudence and discretion. Not by lack of transparency, absolutely – on this subject we want to congratulate..., we appreciate the transparency that the Mosos have had and we want to congratulate their efforts – but because there are questions, there are doubts, there are gaps, there are police operational strategies that cannot be spoken in public, that cannot be spoken in public, because we give clues to the suffering, but we need to talk to them because we cannot express conclusions about what happened. I think we're talking very seriously about what happened. And that's why the parliamentary meeting that follows, the parliamentary meeting that anyone, but, I insist, with the prudence and discretion necessary. What we have to do is analyze and study and clearly look at the mistakes that have been made, the mistakes that have been made. And, just to finish talking about the young man, I think we should also talk specifically about coordination with the local police. Much has been said, much has been said in this Parliament about the coordination of the Squadron Mosses with the strength and security of the State, but also this coordination, these requests that make the Mosses that we gather totally, also to the local police in Catalonia. It is not a waste, if I may – and I will only make three mentions – that the local police do not participate in the Gàbia operation; it is not a waste that they do not have senders shared with the Mosso d'Esquadra for special situations; it is not a waste that they do not have access to the information of Mosso d'Esquadra, and, say, we gather that the Mosso d'Esquadra has, full access and access as direct as possible, and we should also plant the access of the local polices to extraordinary media. And, finally, I also want to say: at the time of September 11th, the United States, the Government of the United States promoted, carried out an independent investigation with people of renown prestige. Maybe we'll have to plant something like that, too. We will vote in favour of the motion, as it cannot be in any other way. Thank you all very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.75.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. The words of Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.76.0	Thank you, President. Well, this young man who introduced himself, I think he gives us the opportunity for the first time in this plenary, along with the statement approved by the Parliament of Catalonia, to make a first political comment around the storms of the Rambles and Cambrils, and we will take advantage of our intervention to do so. Without doubt these times have meant a very hard time for Catalan society, and we will have time to make the relevant reflection in Parliament; the councillor will appear in his parliament and we can devote ourselves in time and form to making the relevant analysis that this fact entails. But we, in some way, want to announce in this intervention how we will behave, because we already know, and we want to explain now, what we want from this debate. In the first place, the first one we want is that now the one that was playing, the one that is still playing, at last, is the condemnation of the haste, it is solidarity with the victims, that is the one that presided the first moments after the tragedy; the support to the bones and security forces, to all the bones and security forces that intervened in the operation, and in particular the confidence in the Police - Mossos d'Esquadra and the urban guards; urban guards: obviously, that of Barcelona, also that of Cambrils. Also, obviously, the support for the emergency service and the volunteers, who were... And pride – pride – as a country and as a society, because other cities of Europe and the world have been immersed in situations similar to those of Barcelona and Cambrils, the pride of the response of Catalan society. The civics, the inclusiveness and the pride that we are and will continue to feel plural, and see the plurality of our society as a common good, not a problem. I am proud that the Catalan society, before this tragedy, has not responded with hatred, but has responded with solidarity, with affection. And, obviously, it is now up to Parliament to carry out the rigorous analysis it entails, which involves these facts. Why... what happened? Why did it happen? We have to ask these questions and we have to give them an answer. Some of the things we're going to look at are the root causes of terrorism. Don't ever forget this analysis, we need to talk about international politics. After the 11th-S storms in New York, the United States began wars that brought us a lot of pain. It was a response to your moment; we must find our response to society. Also in international policies there is a deep reflection. Also social analysis: how is radicalization produced in our barrels and in our schools? How do you see that? Why does it happen to people we know, because they were coming and coming with whom we live in our barrels? Let's talk about this. Obviously, we need to talk about the operation, a security operation, because we were in Catalonia on alert 4, and so he moved on from this operation. And police protocols too: is there proper police coordination? Local police, Mossos d'Esquadra, Civil Guard, National Police, international police... We have to ask here various questions. Therefore, yes, today's information is a strategic value in organizing the fight against terrorism. These questions need answers, and in your parliamentary office, I repeat, we will have to find them. But I'm done. What they never – the one they never – found in our parliamentary group, I can assure you, is to serve the pain of victims to do politics. We will never pass this sad red line, they will never find in our parliamentary group demagogic before these facts. Public security policies are very important, and there is no Czech party on this issue. Obviously, we believe that this, this approach, is what most of Catalan society calls for, and I would like the combination of political forces of this chamber to be taken very seriously. We shall vote in favour of the motion for a People's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.77.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. The words of Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.78.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, deputies and deputies, good morning to everyone. First of all, I would like to excuse Councillor Forn's assistance in the debate on this motion, because at these moments he attends the act of delivering gold medals to the civic merit of the city of Barcelona to the services of emergencies and security; an act of recognition to the task they make, and justified absence. We find ourselves one more time with a young man to thank the task of finishing the Squadron Mosses; from our group we have manifested it on various occasions and we will continue to do so. In the tragic terrorist storms of August 17 in Barcelona and Cambrils and in the succeeding days, the great task that the Mosso d'Esquadra, the Urban Guard of Barcelona, the Local Police of Cambrils, of Ripoll, and also, moreover, of the emergency services, of the health services, of the forensics, and also all the support of the citizenry, taxi drivers and all those who participated in the solidarity shows that happened after the tragic storms. From here I thank all of them, and also support the families of the victims, and also... the families and the wounded. This great pocket of the Mossos has been recognized internationally, but certain means of communication and some political parties want to discredit them. Gentlemen of the PP, it is very good that they make motions, motions for resolutions, statements in favour of our security, but that these are not in front of the gallery; rather of political cynicism. How can they put in doubt the pocket of the squadron moss and want to discredit them with what they did before and after August 17th? What do you think, of the statements of your fellow congressman, Mr. Suárez Lamata, when he said that the Squadron Mosses did nothing to prevent the storms of August 17th? They've been eight years – well, you've been the last six years, ever since they ruled the state – to make the Board of Security, and preventing the Squad Mossos from participating in the terrorist threat table and the CITCO. Have you paid or will you pay the debt of EUR 688 million for the deployment of the 2009 Squadron Mosses? Have they allowed the entry of the Squad Mossos to Europol? Why did they object to the call for five hundred nine-place squadron moves, when they know they're missing? Gentlemen of the PP, if they really want to show the grace and show that they want to improve the recognition of the Squadron Mosses, they should have allowed and allowed not all these hardships and faults that I have just mentioned, and also those that Mireia Vehi quoted. We have always done, done and will do so, demonstrated the gratitude and recognition of the task that is due at the end of the day, and we will also work and work to improve its conditions and provide nine seats to ensure the security of our country. Together for Yes we have always defended and defended democratic values and social justice; democracy and freedom exist before you read them. This Parliament has held and continues to hold the dignity that the institution deserves, and we are here to speak and debate everything that concerns the citizens of this country. We're doing it and we're still doing it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.79.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.80.0	Thank you, President. Well, I regret that some representatives who have spoken have analysed nothing more than those eight lines of commitment to democracy, freedom, security and the legality of our motion. This motion originates in an interpellation, an interpellation where we talked about that the Mossos d'Esquadra, like the rest of the state's security forces and bodies, are democratic police, which is not under the order – under the order – of any partisan criterion, under the manipulation of any political direction. And that is the origin of this motion. And I agree with you: the operation of prevention, of action during the days of the terrorist attacks and after it we have to talk, of course we have to talk. But that's something deeper than a simple eight-line motion. Of course we will talk about it, but let us not mix – let us not mix – all these issues with a motion that has another objective, which is to highlight and protect the Mossos d'Esquadra from any political, partyist manipulation and especially of this Government. This government which has also done what I have said just to start: to parapet behind the uniforms of the agents; that is what the group that gives support to this government of Junts pel Yes has done, while governing with a group that calls « gunmen to the same agents. [[Some applause.]] Look, the democratic police, in the states of law, defend legality, security, freedom and justice, and any legal aid..., is, as the spokesmen of their union have said, practically a phrase that goes to Mass. Therefore, you commit yourselves to removing political hands and your partisan objectives from the bodies and agents that are part of the Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.81.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.82.0	Yes, by acclamation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.83.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.84.0	No, it wasn't allusions. It's for an acclaim about the intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.85.0	Ah!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.86.0	I began my speech by regretting that I was not the counselor, not knowing that I was in an act, so I correct my words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.87.0	Oh, okay. [[Long break.]] We're voting for the lady. The vote begins. The motion on the challenges of security policy has been approved by 120 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the Catalan communication media]] [[302-00183/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the Catalan communication media presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord David Mejía. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please... please, I'm in a hurry and in silence, which we need to continue. [[Pause.]] Mr. Mejía, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.88.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members, once more, once more we will bring back to the House a motion to talk about public communication means, and we will not tire of doing so, until they meet the requirements and objectives that they should have any means of public communication. Given what we have seen so far, perhaps the Government is not clear who these requirements and these objectives should be, and we repeat it, we will repeat them again today and the times that we need those that we believe should have the public communication means, these requirements. Who are they? In the first place, of general interest, of plurality, of neutrality, of impartiality, of objectivity. All these objectives and requirements are the ones that must have the public communication media. To the question we wanted to ask a_me, before the summer, we put a series of examples with which we showed that these requests did not exist at present on Catalan public television or radio. And we asked them and asked them if after the summer, if with this new season, so things would change a little bit. But, unfortunately – unfortunately – and whatever they don't surprise us anymore, this has not been so. It wasn't like that, and the truth is, we have to tell them that we're sick of manipulation and its manipulation in public communication media. We're sick of us always being the same and using communication media as an instrument of political propaganda and ideological propaganda. And we won't stop raising the veil until this changes. And we will do and present the necessary motions to achieve it. Why, look, did you know that there was Mexico? I found out thanks to TV3 for this, not to mention Spanish. Now it's gonna turn out we're gonna have the mexico, we're gonna have the colombia, we're gonna have... [[Someone says: "Valence.]] The valley... yes, exact, very well. Also, they are curious – they are curious – that in live broadcasts – all this in August – in live broadcasts giving a press wheel of such an important issue, at such an important time, of the Councillor d'Interior and Major Trapero, the communication and the broadcast is fine at the moment when they ask questions to this Councillor and Major Trapero. It is curious, above all, when we see that you broadcast and TV3 broadcast live, therefore, acts of separatist entities and that there is no such in this sense. Or make propaganda, for example, and make announcements from the Generality in favour of an illegal reference, a non-referendum, and in favour of a campaign or an illegal non-campaign that it will not do. Certainly, gentlemen of TV3, I take advantage that I am here at the Faristol, and after seeing the Telenews of yesterday night, to remind you that minority groups that are not independent of the opposition have more votes than the majority groups. [[applause]] give support to the government. And, like that, we could set many more examples. Therefore, rigour, deputies the deputies. There is a lot of rigour on television and on public radio, and there is a lot of ideological interventionism in the direction. If not, ask the workers; I don't need to ask Ciutadans or the opposition groups: ask the workers and they'll see what they tell them. We also ask for more transparency, for example in the work done by the audience advocate, in her daily work and in her election. His report, the report that he has made, we think it is a generic mass and we think we should know the answers that are given, the same way that we question his need, have other organisms that can do the same thing. Or the subsidies tied up for the Department of the Presidency. I insist, we will not tire of denouncing the instrumentalization of media that we absolutely pay all Catalans. You, lords of the government, have converted TV3 and Catalunya Radio into an allo independence to the Bolivian style. And we won't allow it, and we'll keep raising our eyes whenever we need to. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.89.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. To defend the papers presented has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.90.0	Thank you, President. Catalonia Yes, it may be a supporter of a public television and radio that are referenced from the point of view of impartiality and informational rigour, but it also continues to play its role in terms of linguistic normalization, for which it makes it a platform for cultural diffusion, for which it makes it a generator of quality own productions..., in a word: we want everything, we want all this world of what the corporation is. We want media that, by their professional level, by their self-requirement, are admired in the European and international audiovisual scene, and, above all, media that their citizens can trust. We want media that complements everything other than the same rules of these public media says: media that complements its marc mandate, more than expired, but still in force; that complements its proprio de estil; that complements, for example, those phrases that say, in the marc mandate or in the librio de estil, that "the production and diffusion of contents is independent of political and economic power, or when it is said that "the information must be of quality, drawn up honestly and accurately, and clearly distinguish between facts and opinions, or when it is said that it must be acted impartially, neutrally, respect for pluralism and that it is never taken sides. We want media that respects what's already its standard mark and its own style book. Because our media continues to be prestigious, they continue to be absolutely credible to our citizens, so that any attempt to further promote our media. And there's no way we can stop it, we can reverse it, if we don't reverse that reform or counter-reform of the law that was done in 2012. I therefore take advantage of the moment to claim that the agreement of the law on which we arrived in July, the fulfillment. And, therefore, as soon as possible, let us bring to the plenary what we have given as a question for, consensually, going to reverse the effects of that counter-reform of 2012. Please, let's do it. I'm doing a lot of building today, huh? As you see. So, please, let's do it. I won't say that to my neighbor anymore. In these moments that the country needs more than ever – more than ever – media that complements everything that I have detailed before – that remain independent of political power, that distinguish between facts and opinions, that does not take sides, that remain scrupulous in pluralism and information – at a time like the present, we cannot allow ourselves – we cannot allow ourselves – that we are not doing our dues from Parliament and we cannot allow citizens not to rely on communication media. Please, that you can keep this to in your own Ple respect this theme. I think that all parliamentary groups today have a chance, with the Ciutadans motion, to prove it. We'll do it, we'll approve all this motion; we've gone in to do papers, I think it's improved with the built-in CUP and Catalonia papers Yes, it's Pot, and so we'll approve this motion. And all the parliamentary groups have a few dues that we need to complete, which is that the law that came out of the joint petition is being brought to the House. If we do not do this, unfortunately, we will also start a black, very black period, for the public media in Catalonia. I hope that the black periods leave them only for the Parliament of Catalonia and we do not allow it to go to the rest of the country's public institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.91.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.92.0	Thank you, President – and today is not just a formalism. Thank you too – and I wanted to start this way – as well as at least all the workers in the house and the uixers, who have done some marathon days, and I think we need to thank them for the effort they've made; we've all done it, huh? Obviously, but to the workers like at least I also wanted to make this thank you. [[applause]] all his pocket, which helps us, sense of doubt, a lot of all the deputies. That said and entering – now, yes – into the strict question that is raised in this young man, MP Mejía has said, no novelty. In fact, he presented the inquiry on his day as the greatest hits. Actually, it's what we see every day; or follow, repeat and repeat a mantra to try to create a _mark that doesn't fit – that doesn't fit – that we see. And, indeed, you have said this: "The first motion – the second motion. Okay. And we have no problem in insisting, as always, on what we think is good for public and private communication media, because from here, from a point of view, we also talk about it. We, in fact, have submitted reports. He did not want to negotiate with us, the Ciutadans Group; that is all. I believe, too, that Mrs Ribas has said, that with the transactions, also with the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is in some... and, indeed, that the CUP was similar, it is not exactly what we presented, but it was similar, I think it is better. So, it's the same, we'll let it go, that we haven't accepted or negotiated our papers, that's all. We do want to agree with everyone, always, on any question, because we believe it strengthens democracy. In any case, we defend and want effectively plural communication means, and we have them. We want transparent communication media, we want it, and we have them. And can they make it better? So, let's make it better. We want the communication media to follow the representation of the citizen expression and what is happening, which is what the communication media must be. Therefore, we will vote in part for some of the points of his motion, precisely in which they are going to defend independence, in which they are going to defend the professional work of journalists and in which they are going to defend the transparency of communication media as well. Now, what we're not going to do is feed his report; and we also have to say it the same way. I wanted to focus on the young man, but since you've come back to insist on the great hits, so I'm going to do something that I didn't want to do but that I'm forced to do. You want to try to generate a _marc that is not, in any case, the real: there is neither directism nor political intervention, nor – which is one of the points of her young lady – the defender of the audience cannot be able to complain about the content that is being issued. That's it. There's no rule that prevents it, no one. And you can insist, you can try to make some reports, file 1,500 anonymous complaints, and publish them, and then say that this is a gurigal and that this is fatal. You can try. But reality is coughing. And as much as they want to create a propaganda mantra – you, who talked about it – we won't go in there. And you say to us: "We will present a thousand motions, if we need them. And God's faith is like this – and God's faith is like this. And we celebrate that you want to do it, because we like that you want to talk about it. It's true, but..., and I'm not comforted by the people that Spanish Television does the fatal things, because, as badly as they do – as badly as they do – I would continue to defend that here things are going to be done as well as possible. But it is true that we have seen how the news director of The 2 news has been accommodated because he has not followed the dictatorships that they offer him; how they have hired a journalist who has dedicated himself to insulting parliamentary groups and political opinions; how the Council of Informatius has made a writing of four hundred pages denouncing one hundred and thirty violations of the code of ethics; how it has been transmitted, as explained, the information of the statement of President Rajoy for the Gürtel case from an argumentary of the People's Party – from an argumentary of the People's Party –; heavy violations of the code of ethics, transparency, plurality. And then I wanted to look..., because as they say "we won't get tired of filing a thousand motions to defend this, I looked at it. What was presented to the Congress of Deputies? And you have presented three proposals not of law, indeed. The first concerns the defence of exploitation and intellectual property rights by the Spanish Broadcasting Corporation. Okay. The second is « Proposal of the Citizens Group on the improvement of collaboration and exploitation of resources between Spanish Radiotelevision and the Spanish Film Library, the main point of which is that the logo of the film library appears in the audiovisual products that they emit. The third is the Citizens' Parliamentary Group's report on cultural content in information. ; the main point diu: "There must be more spaces, wider, dedicated to cultural dissemination, understanding the same as literary, musical, plastic arts, etc.. Well, you want to present a thousand motions, but before a heavy violation of the plurality of public media, you present that the logo of the film library appears and that it is spoken of "plastic arts". I found it fantastic. But this is the work you do at the Congress. Therefore, you want to come here to advertise, you want to create a false mark, and that is why we will not enter this game, and we will always stand by to defend the plurality and transparency of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.94.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, on our part, we think this young man, so he says some things that objectively can count on our support, but he stops saying some others, and that's why we believe that this is unfair in his focus and that's why he can't count on our support for a hundred per cent. I say unfairly and out of focus for the same reason that I have said in previous motions by the Socialist Group or the People's Group: for the quality of information, for plurality, for the good working conditions of the professionals of the information we must be equally concerned in the Catalan public sector as in the Spanish public sector, and in the Catalan or Spanish private sector; therefore, on TV3, as in Spanish Radiotelevision, as pointed out in the intervention of the Member of Parliament Gómez del Moral, who preceded me. Indeed, a news such as the cessation of the editor of The 2 news, which is the only information – and surely something has to be seen – that was issued the recordings of Fernández Díaz, the only abst information of the Spanish public system that was issued these recordings... ; it has been ceased. And your group's action has been to put a parliamentary question in the courts. For much less, there would have been a good chicken. And it would certainly be justified. We, the way it was named the director of TV3 we found the potter. And in this case, then, we did pinya to denounce it. But you have a double measuring rod: and they are very concerned about the quality of the information in our public media – and they do – but in others they have a lot of big eyes. Our papers were in this direction. In the first point, for example, we have always defended that the task of the Audiovisual Council can be directed to all audiovisual media that issue to society and inform Catalan society. And, in addition to considering it unfair, we also consider it inappropriate, because the facts that have shaken the journalism in the last weeks precisely do not have in the eyes of the hurricane the Catalan public media. Therefore, the problems of the right to information and the quality of the information..., in the last few weeks have been identified the shortcomings that there are in some media of private property. And that should concern us as much as it concerns us in our public media. There was the episode where one of the country's most read journals reproduced an altered document without saying it was altered, right? until some people first started to identify the inconsistencies; then it had to be announced that the reproduction that The Newspaper did – we can say clearly –, so it turns out that it had been altered. And this for us is a hard attack on journalistic quality, on the right to information. One of the considerations – this has been accepted –, for example, suggests that mechanisms to prevent these violations are the drafting statutes or the drafting committees, which in the case of this diary exist, but it was not enough; for some reasons – I will not go in there now – it was not enough, therefore, to avoid a bad practice of these proportions. Just as worrying, then, is that a director of a newspaper – which is quite a mouthpiece, that's true, but he's also very well connected to power – a few days ago on a radio, isn't it? : there are significant people from the Government of the Spanish State, starting with Vice President Sáenz of Santamaría, who are having a strategy of influence in the media, therefore, to do politics through the media. And I didn't hear your party protesting for this kind of inciting, politicizing, directing, as the motion says. In the same way that the excellent journalistic task, as it was then put in value, of people like Pedro Águeda, Patricia López, Carlos Enrique Bayo or Ernesto Ekaizer has worried little or people about his party, as demonstrated, therefore, the intervention of his spokesman in the Commission of the Catalan Operation. Therefore, the concern, from our point of view, is not the right to information or working conditions that allow independent and quality journalism, but that is something else. We know that a few weeks and a few tense months are coming, and that journalists and media outlets will be right in the face of the hurricane. We hope that through the media you can have plural and quality debates, and lead by good professionals. And we must never stop being vigilant about all public and private media, but we have the feeling that the Catalan public media are closer to this plurality than the Spanish public media or private media. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.95.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Mr. David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the fifth motion on Catalan public communication media. And it is confirmed that, effectively, we all agree that things can do better. There is a drop in hearing that is historical; there are complaints of lack of plurality, that they are constant; there are complaints; there are dysfunctions; there are problems of governance; there is a lack of resources. And I think the Parliament, the opposition... in fact, all the groups in this Parliament are doing our job. That is why we will vote in favour of the joint motion. And we also add to the petition made by Congresswoman Ribas to ask us to finish the job we have practically finished. We agreed that this month we would introduce her here; I don't know if we'd get there in time, with everything that's going on these days, but I hope that's the way it is. And we also liked some of the papers presented by the CUP, the company Albert Botran, which were not finally accepted, but this does not prevent us from voting in favour of the assembly of the young man. I think we're doing our job, but the government has to do its job, too. We still have the program contract, to say the least, stuck; we have the economic media, still, we don't know where they are, and we have a lack of strategic vision and of the future. In short, Parliament has to finish its work – we absolutely agree – and if everything goes well soon, we sometimes think that the government still has to start doing the work. We're asking them to come in now. And if they do, on the part of the Socialist Group, they are more extensive in all this work. But if the government wants to go on like this, looking for another band, then I'm not counting on me. If this government wants a television that doesn't provide information, but advertises, lacks resources and is totally government-dependent, then I don't count on myself. If the government wants professionals in the service, in its service, and not in the service of the citizens, if they want TV3 to be a television just for the independents, then I don't count on myself. If it is, in short, that in this Parliament we continue to present motions and vote motions that make this Parliament without the minimum guarantees that these motions serve for something, then I do not count on myself. In short, honourable Members, vote without guarantees? So I'm not counting on me. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.97.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Perez. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.98.0	Thank you, President. Well, the truth is that reading the motion almost seems, almost, that it's from the People's Party; among other things, why do we carry many years defending this, right? : therefore, pluralism, freedom of information, non-pressure, transparency in the management of public communication media. And like it's practically what we're carrying, even before the City entrance to this Parliament, so we'll give it total recollection. That's why we haven't presented a single item to all the text that has been presented. We have to say that sometimes the motions initially have a form, a content and a purpose that are altered by the papers of other parliamentary groups. But in this case I believe, and we think she's become rich, even so, don't we? Therefore, given the fact that we support this young man, we should highlight things that we believe are important. At the end and end, this motion does not say anything that is not, in fact, mandatory for public communication means; it is to say: to comply with the criteria of pluralism, freedom of information, informational honesty and informational truthfulness, non-manipulation, non-politicization and transparency. This is already an obligation to be completed and also to be completed in public communication media. It's enough that the Junts representative for the Yes, so go, practically do us here a defense that this is what they do and that it's not possible, to the government, to attribute manipulations of public communication media. But, of course, that falls; it falls to see how public media have acted over the last few years, how they have gone from being public to being mediated, and that they have only become a propaganda apparatus for the interests that defend independent parties. There have been complaints from the sector, there have been alarming ratings; it is continuing to make and schedule the broadcast of announcements of a report that is illegal today. And, therefore, we cannot be more than in agreement with this motion presented. That said, it's no surprise that the government is not astounding because there's a movement like this, because, if we remember, June's political independence already showed us its lack and what its action is with respect to communication media; in this case, with the private. Remember the motion that was approved in this Parliament to take the subsidies to all those communication media that were private, that did not advertise and advertise the reference. What are they not to do then with those who have their hands laid on the board of directors? We will fully support this young man and expect him to come forward, because public communication means are all paid for by all Catalans, and they do not have to be party media.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.99.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Mr. David Mejía then had the words to pronounce on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.100.0	Thank you, President. Quickly; in the first place, thank the groups for the papers presented, I really think they improve the movement. Tell Mr. Gómez del Moral that, even though I have not accepted any of his papers, I think some of them are introduced through the papers that the CUP carried out. And besides that, then, I would also tell Mr. Moral Gomez that we would not continue to make motions if we did not continue to make these hits day after day in the public media; we would already like to stop doing these motions. And then tell him that he doesn't always compare us to Spanish Television. Look, I'm telling you one thing: we, at the Congress – you said it – have introduced PNL, we have asked parliamentary questions, we present questions at the Spanish public media monitoring session. Therefore, a mike of rigor. If you want, then I'll show you all the questions we've asked at the Congress of Deputies. And, finally, to the lady of the PP, to Mrs. Esperanza García, who talks to us about many years ago defending pluralism, neutrality, objectivity; Mrs. García, is that a joke? Really? It's a joke, isn't it? Is that a joke? Because... [[Greetings.]] I mean, a little bit of rigor, please, a little bit of rigor. In short, I would also like to ask the Government..., I know that I cannot answer, but let us hope that the term in which it was said that the program contract is would present September; let us hope that this will be the case. And I join the demands of the different groups to tell the rapporteur of the law to see if we can speed up the issue of renewal and revocation of the current law. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Call it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.102.0	President, for a separate vote and a few brief allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.103.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.104.0	Okay. The separate vote – I don't know in what order, though – would be the first and third points. They can vote in groups on our part.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.105.0	Points 1 and 3? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.106.0	Points 1 and 3, which can be voted grouped.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.107.0	All right. Now, allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.108.0	And allusions, yes. No, I'd only say to Mr. Mejia and Mr. Ciutan that you can follow the political propaganda. In fact, what I have denounced... – I have not compared it with anything else – I have denounced the work that they do at one place and another: to one worry about the plastic arts and the logotype of the Film Library, despite the fact that there is a document of four hundred pages of the information board obstinately denouncing the abuses, say, that there are rights of journalists. So I'm the only one who's asking for this, but they can go on advertising. In any case, I am left with the unanimous demand, which is that when we do not advertise, when we do work, when it is in the debate, at the law we have an agreement and, therefore, we have all agreed to reverse and improve the modification of the Law of the Catalan Corporation of the Audiovisual Media. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.109.0	We're voting for the lady. A separate vote has been requested from points 1 and 3, which can be voted together. Therefore, we will vote first on points 1 and 3, and then on the rest of the motion. Mr. Fernández, are you... voting or asking me for the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, so... The vote on points 1 and 3 begins – the vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] Points 1 and 3 were rejected by 61 votes in favour, 65 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the Catalan media was adopted by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into social deprivation]] [[302-00184/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on social disprotection, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street. And many thanks for getting out of the hurry and quiet. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.110.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, throughout this entire legislature it has been shown that while the Government of the Generalitat focuses on meeting its only government program, which is to encourage social confrontation, which is institutional confrontation, which is contempt for the rule of law, what it does is to neglect its multiple responsibilities and competences, always subject to its sole maximum objective, regardless of the negative effects on Catalan society, which may be leaving the most vulnerable groups at the stand. You're focused on one thing and you're neglecting the skills you do have, and that's how it goes. There is something that many Catalans do not understand, and it is inexplicable that in an era of economic recovery society is feeling increasingly unprotected. We have the LGTBI collective calling for the councillor to resign for standing next to those who banalize homophobia; we have closed the previous session with workers, users and entrepreneurs in the dependency sector by demonstrating themselves at the door of Parliament; in the middle of the summer the Director General of Childcare resigns from suspicions of corruption; a large part of the disability sector has judicially challenged the bases of the subsidy... Is everyone wrong or is it that you are doing it badly? I have it clear: they mismanage bets, because they are interested in generating the frustration necessary for society to buy their speech and with it their political project. But you have a lot of responsibility for the suffering of thousands of Catalans, and that victimistic tone is no longer credible. Yesterday, the MP of the CUP Benet Salellas, in a start of sincerity, recognized in this atrium that the precipitation of these last forty_and_eight_black hours of coup, came because "they had– tenieu –" haste, because the regime of 78 – as some coupists call democracy – is recomposing. That is, because Catalan citizens, overcome the uncertainties of the worst of the crisis, see a more hopeful future and therefore have less chance of being seduced by a break-up project. In other words, they have used and continue to use the suffering of thousands of Catalans to build a victimistic narrative in the service of political objectives. And our aim with this motion is to return the Generalitat to common sense and to focus on what really matters. Politics is always a matter of priorities; you prioritize independence, to the point of allocating almost EUR 6 million in something you know you have no competence to do. Citizens propose to allocate to ensure the continuous training of persons with intellectual disabilities the amount of those almost 6_million_of_euros that you have allocated to repeat the 9-N; an item cancelled, declared definitively unconstitutional and unstatutory by the Constitutional Court and the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, which yesterday passed through the forrete. We have introduced another point because there is another distortion in the budgets. In recent years the contingency fund was endowed with a maximum of 50_million, which, for everyone to understand, the contingency fund is a fund for when there is some unforeseen, unpredictable misfortune, such as a hail, that would not cover insurance, or a laugh. And what was happening with that fund was that it was never spent and at the end of the year those funds were diverted to the various departments of the Government. This year, 330_million_of_euros have been budgeted, i.e. six times more than usual. We believe that with the intention of having much more freedom when it comes to using the money of all Catalans and thus avoiding parliamentary control. What do they intend to do with that money? Are they going to target children, older persons, persons with disabilities, the LGBTI collective, victims of violence and discrimination? Or are they going to allocate it to secessionist propaganda, to pay ads about the alleged referendum or its state structures? This motion calls on the government to allocate 250_million of that contingency fund, which is dead there in disgust when it comes to paying, go and find out what ugliness..., we want it to be intended to protect Catalans. We want it to be intended to finance guaranteed income from citizenship; to reverse the decline to care for dependency, increasing the number of places and updating professional ratios; to increase the autonomy of persons with disabilities; to improve childcare; and to provide budgetary support for the LGTBI Act, which offers real care to victims. Catalonia needs to regain common sense, it needs a government that prioritizes its time and the resources of Catalans in improving the public services of the Generalitat. We have clear priorities; the money you want to spend on independence we want to spend on improving people's lives. Less embezzlement of the money of all Catalans with independent performances, and more attention to children, disability, poverty or discrimination; less money for independence and more for attention to dependence, so easy. It's just a matter of priorities. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.111.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.112.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. MPs, MPs, the motion that presents us today Ciutadans, therefore, is almost the summary of many months of work, insistence on the part of opposition on some issues that we consider to be responsible, and this motion that does is to straighten them out, put them all, if any – not all, but some, the most important –, black on white. Our reviews have gone to some of the aspects that we consider most important, but I must warn you that for us social policies must be sufficiently funded, and that they must not function as vaginas or do strange things, let us say, with the assumption. Now, if they're not funded enough, they have to make the effort on the part of the government because they are. Our papers have been instrumental in including something that in some..., it was a long time ago a universal right of all people who were, say, users and beneficiaries of the Law of Dependence, which are the benefits linked to residence. The councilwoman, these past few days, has been announcing the opening of nine residential places, and we celebrate it; we are missing six thousand, we are already making. But you would have to recover the universality of the services linked to residence, which your government reduced through a decree and which, therefore, broke with the universality that these services entailed. It is interesting that in the month of July, in this Parliament, at the door, we had the employer and the unions, all together, demanding the best of the working conditions of the staff working in the residences. And, once and for all, to review the reports, because there are people who don't have the attention they deserve, because there are some businesses that are managing these public services that are first needed with traps. And we need to get old for a good public service in these residences. And so, we pose..., we agree, in the sense that the routes will have to be checked. The Social Service Portfolio is possibly the most shameful complaint this government has to face. We wear years and breads, in the worst years of crisis in our history... the Social Service Portfolio has not been reviewed, and you have approved it on repeated occasions. Already enough; a little compromise and respect for this Parliament. They are specialists in jumping-off motions that we approved only three months ago, in July, for which you have to see with the special work centers, with the conditions of people who for their disability have special difficulties to enter the world of work. We approve of a motion and the next week they carry it. And at these times, today, there are six thousand people with disabilities at the special work centres who see their work place spoiled. And that's a policy directly yours, Counselor. In fact, they have even turned against the bases. And that's what Ciutadan's company said: we may be all wrong – less you – all of you, and the whole sector, and you can agree on some conditions, even with a representative part of the sector that doesn't have special work centers, but the reality is very cruel at the end. We ask him what we asked him before: we want him to count back the children who are undernourished in Catalonia and we want, we want with this young man, with this thing that we have done since the PSC, that he has reunited the follow-up committee. They are specialists in not provoking social participation, lady councillor and lords of the government, in this country. Look, they haven't just called this follow-up commission, but the hives they have on follow-up commissions is brutal. The General Council of Social Services has only been convened once since the year 2014; the Social Needs Assessment Council is not meeting since 2011! And there's no strategic social service plan, we're using 2013's. You're ashamed! We have already put forward proposals for a resolution, because we believe that the General Council of Social Servants must meet as a minimum every six months, because the Social Needs Assessment Council that has the people must meet, as a minimum, three times a year. It doesn't cost money, it doesn't cost that much. Where is the political participation of civil society in this government for what it does in the design of social policies? I don't have to add anything else to the LGTBI issue, because it's obvious, it's palmari, we know. Not only do they not deploy this law, nor the childhood law, nor the equality of man and woman, nor the accessibility law... It's the same; here the laws that matter are fan, if any, in twenty-four hours, and the rest will come. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Therefore, what I expect from your Government – and I finish, President – is that, please, they make respect for those resolutions, motions for resolutions and motions that are fanciful in this Parliament. But, of course, it's that what we've just seen, the spectacle of these two days, when they're asking for the Statute and they're asking for the Rules, that makes them think that their will is not to respect the rules, but to jump them to impose their own. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.113.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word the deputy of the Group of Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, the lady Marta Ribas, to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.114.0	Thank you. ECAS Report, Insocat Report of July 2017: « Catalan society is getting richer and poorer now. They grow the middle returns, that's right, but now they grow the poor and it's chronic, and every time they increase the risk of being poor and working. Report, later report by Creu Roja, of those who make from their users or users, also insist on them: « Grow the chronification of the poor, grow the poor labor. The situation is worrying. Well, all this continues, continues – are you aware, counselor? - and go on. And the only way to deal with it is with more resources, with more priority, with more social policies. We've already had this debate on a thousand occasions. I think primarily, when we had the 2017 presupposition debate, we were happy that there were 1,000_million more for social spending, but we recognized and demanded that everyone recognize it: it's not enough, that's not enough, nor is it enough to reverse the detail that happened in the past few years, and, obviously, it's not enough to give an answer to this reality. Our priorities: return policy, dependence and equality. So, in this Ciutadans motion, the first point precisely sets a priority or re-priorization of resources available in the presupposition for 2017. They talk about important parties, not minute ones, in the first point, and that this priority also responds precisely to these priorities: return policy, guaranteed citizenship, themes of dependence and equality. So, obviously, from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, at this first point of the Ciutadans movement, we will support it. But, like I'm saying this, I'm saying to you with strength that we can't support or support what's going on and what's going on behind the second point of your youth, because, in this speech that Ciutadans are doing to cover social needs from money that goes to elements of democracy, we can't go in. We won't go in there, because it's a failed speech, because it's a cheating speech and because it's an irresponsible speech. You can't be playing with that kind of argument. What really needs to be done in the face of what the ECAS report tells us, what the Red Cree report tells us, what all the reports tell us with a little depth respect for the poor in Catalonia and respect for social needs or respect for dependence, is that resources and important; that therefore a high priority or re-priority in the premise, but above all that is more resources. In this sense, it was Catalonia's dream Yes, it is Pot: until we make a profound tax reform, until we go to a fairer tax system, until we record much more to those who need resources for those who need it, we will not be giving an answer to what they constantly ask of us from the entities, from the sectors affected, from the people who are patenting it. We will continue to insist on that. Obviously, we support the first point of the Ciutadans movement, but no, we will not make accomplices of speeches that play an irresponsible role, and more at a political moment like the current one in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.115.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The paragraph is given to the deputy of Junts per el Si, Mrs Anna Figueras, in order to fix the defense of their statements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.116.0	Well, thank you very much, President. He will advise, counsel, deputies, deputies..., Mrs. De la Calle, already advance that we withdraw the message that we were going to present and that we will not give more support to the points, the two points that this young man has. And I'll tell you why. First, because it contravenes the Law of Presuppositions; you, who are the great guarantors of, let's say, the rules in force, now it turns out that you want to search for the rules in force – then I prove it. Secondly, because the object of this young man – and it seems to me that he was reminded of it by someone before I – is not social policy, protection, social disprotection, but all the contrary. In the beginning of your intervention, you have demonstrated it, you have spoken of secessionist drift, you have spoken of independence, full road..., and very few social policies. Third, and third reason for which we will not support this motion: you hide in opposing the national and the social, and, listen to me, you are not opposed, on the contrary, you are indivisible. We want a state, yes, because all the resources that are generated here in Catalonia can be allocated to people, also to those who do not have resources, and so much. And, listen to me, fourth: because more than you want to reform with a young man a law that has a higher category and that you know perfectly well that this cannot be done in this Parliament. Come on, let's start with point one, contingencies. I told you I violated the 2017 Presumables Act... you, huh? So, what happens to you that you're defending the law, and you're spreading the law, so where are you going to stop? Miri, in Article 15, in Point 4, says that all those outstanding contingencies must be destined for Greeting; and now you don't want to do it. Then, listen to me, and if there's more resources in a contingency fund, then, better, right? I'm sure we can drop the debt we have with Salut. But now it turns out you don't want to do it. And then, also, at the 15th of the assumptions, of the Law of assumptions, at the 1st point, it says that the remaining resources of the contingency funds must go to survivors' needs, which are not provided for in the approved assumption. The guaranteed rent? It is provided for in the approved budget. Therefore, it must seem insufficient, but it is planned; therefore, no contingency funds can be allocated to it. The guaranteed income and such. And besides the law, what you say is that the minimum income is turned into guaranteed income, and the law of guaranteed income, what you also say is that it's not just the first year, it's the second and the third, uh, councilman? Therefore, we have endowed it; it cannot be proclied, let us say..., of contingencies. Dependency and disability. 80 per cent of the assumptions of Social Affairs are for disability and dependency, and, if you care about them, let's say, the foundations for dependency, grab your partners in Madrid, the mayors of the PP, and require them to pay for what you say the law. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, man, yes, you can do it, that you have ancestry. You, for example, have resorted to this Council of Statutory Guarantees that once they found it so partial and so politicized and that they are now venerable. And do you know why they came after him? Because they saw above all that they had to explain, because there was not much to explain, why they would use these contingencies. He's already explained to us, yes, what was the point. Listen to me, the contingencies are for those, let's say, unplanned actions. What did they want me to explain to them? But then there's another thing: you demand in this case that the contingency funds that start from August 31... Listen to me, that from August 31 there can be no emergency situations in this country? Or is it that the date was to be one of determined, before any second dates, because you thought that these contingencies were meant for something else? Listen to me, I saw him crying. And then point number 2: you say that all these unconstitutional grounds have to be allocated "not to repeat a 9-N. No, they were wrong, it's that we won't repeat a 9-N, you haven't learned anything: the law that you say is that we will make a binding reference and, therefore, this law that we will approve October 1 will allow us to vote. Look, in this young man you've made a profit-that-the-Pisuerga-pass-by-Valladolid. The real purpose of this young man is not social policies. You know precisely that with this young man you cannot finish what you propose according to the law, obviously, that law you always want, want to finish. The object of this young man is to torpedo democracy once more, the object of this young man is to try to prevent, let us say, what they have tried throughout this House, and it is that the people of Catalonia cannot express themselves on October 1st. I have tried by land, sea, air, Constitutional Court, Council of State Guarantees and Civil Guard. And now what they want is to use politically the most vulnerable people to do it. So, look, we want the ballot boxes to get that with our own resources, with everyone, people, Catalans and Catalans, they can live decently in this country. That's why – that's why – we're putting the people you're going to vote for on October 1. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.117.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. The words of Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.118.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, well, we will give support to this motion that today, therefore, Deputy Naomi of the Street, the deputy of Ciutadans, raises us here in Parliament, basically because we think that we are talking about issues affecting the people, the Catalans, and not as we have seen during these two days that we have been secreted in this Parliament. A motion that, as I say, deals with important questions, questions that affect Catalans, such as attention to dependence, guaranteed income from citizenship, speaks of childhood... And that's why Ciutadans is offering us, so it's going to allocate 250_million euros from the contingency fund and 6_million more that is expected to dedicate the independence forces to this 9-N version that you expect to be produced on October 1. Well, as long as these social policies that are essential to Catalonia can be brought forward, it is necessary, first of all, therefore, to deploy and complete the laws that we currently have. We have a legal framework that if you apply, that if you are deployed, then you could answer many questions that affect the collectivities with fewer resources and that in a certain way they see their rights stifled. As for the guaranteed income of citizenship, so, look, one week from now it has to come into force, it has to come into force this ILP, which is now a law, and it still makes me think that we will not start well and that perhaps we will have to resort to the contingency fund. You'll see – you'll see – and I'll leave you here. As for the Access Law, I remember, right? That this bill was approved with the councilwoman Munté, we've got her parked right now. I remember those joys, don't I? , the joys of entities, associations, of all parliamentary groups when that law was approved, but, well, now itself, therefore, it is not fully deployed, it does not apply. And, therefore, I believe that here, therefore, we must make an important effort so that we can effectively deploy, right? For the sake of the collection. Also Law 14/2010, of the Rights and Opportunities of Infants and Adolescents. It's been seven years since we approved it, Counselor. And a very important part of it isn't yet deployed. Therefore, I repeat, we have a regulation that, if we deploy it, then, in the end, we may indeed be able to give this social support that many people need with less resources and with more needs. Important, too, the updating of the social service portfolio, right? ; better social protection, and therefore be up to date, be up to date on these issues. How many proposals, how many motions have been approved in this Parliament for this question, and today, therefore, we do not have one. The DGAIA. I think, Counselor, that deep reflection is needed in this direction, isn't it? And, well, last August we saw the director, so he quit. I won't go in for what kind of questions; but he himself admitted, therefore, that there is a col·lapse, that the DGAIA is currently overwhelmed before this flood of children, especially young teenagers, isn't it? , that they come here and that makes the centers collapsing and not being able to attend. So, well, I'm not going to get into this anymore because, as you know, so we've asked for a appearance at the committee, a appearance by the councilwoman and also by Mr. Oriol Amorós, so that they explain how the arrival of immigrants is managed not accompanied to Catalonia. And, finally, yesterday – yesterday – the Social Protection Agency was approved, an agency that in no case, then, will serve to increase funding neither the rates nor speed up the lists, right? We think that, in the background, more than a social protection agency, so, it's an ideological protection agency. And, therefore, we didn't support it. Yes, in change, we will give support to this young man. We think it has been enriched by the issues that have been, therefore, approved and negotiated, and above all for which it refers to special work centres and dependence in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.119.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.120.0	Mrs. Naomi of the Street, I understand why you haven't been looking for me these days to see what our position on your young man would be. Because you and I have discussed many times and we have spoken many times about different motions in which we have worked, we have enriched, we have improved, and you have a strong conscience that, in matters of basic income, in matters of care for dependence, in matters of improving the employment and professional situations of the sector, etc., we have fought, we have presented motions, we have made inquiries and we have approved, on our part, or together with you, many times, proposals that are coming this way. When I started reading the young man I thought, "You see, how is it supposed to be August 31? Okay. Why do we have to touch the contingency fund? I will not repeat what Mr. Raúl Moreno said, which coincided with the explanation that this should be already funded and assumed. How do we play guaranteed income, put more money on guaranteed income, which hasn't started yet, if it hasn't started yet? How is it that without knowing the degree of execution we already ask that more money is put in September..., September, October, November? Well, all these sides that you're planting, obviously need more reinforcement. Now, when I got to point 2, I heard it. Then I did hear it. The problem is not to touch the contingencies, which we wouldn't agree to – nor to touch it in agost, because many things can happen – but the problem is how we numb, how we stick to the wheels, how, finally, we shield a series of money..., why? Therefore, the people of Catalonia cannot exercise their right to self-determination. Look, the problem of October 1 is not just a problem, nor is it substantially a problem of money, if we get out of this money, all that you want to ridicule and beg, and talk about 9-N when we're talking about a self-determination referendum. I don't think it's worth making a fool of myself, is it? Why? Because day 1 yes or yes will refer to it, and yes or yes people will go to vote, and yes or yes, on a contingency basis, they bring the contingency, not applying the 9_millions, we will exercise our democratic right and do it, so it is decided, because it is approved and because, above all, we have the will. Change of theme, and I say: by chance of life, it is true that yesterday we had a plethora, a plethora, two days, a plethora of motion, a plethora that were possibly of a tension and of a very important complexity and transcendence. I would like to make it clear, Madam President, Mrs Carme Forcadell, that, if for those chancellors of life I had to find myself some time in a situation like you lived yesterday and had to live, I would like to have the same dignity and the same serenity that you held in this House, giving us anniversaries and esteems to all others. [[Greetings.]] I hope I can have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.121.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. Then there's the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street to pronounce herself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.122.0	Thank you. With regard to the amendments tabled, we have accepted the Socialist Party's amendment, which called for the recovery of the report on undernourished children, which this Government has decided that for what, eh? Why are we going to bother to worry about our childhood? Well, then, we believe that it is necessary and we have therefore accepted that amendment, thanking the Socialist Party for submitting it. We negotiated the other two amendments to the SGP, which were therefore more technical in nature as they helped to improve the text. With regard to the Catalonian amendment Yes, it is Pot, we have not accepted it, as it does not go into the logic of this motion, which is nothing other than setting priorities when it comes to spending public funds. And I would like to tell Mrs Marta Ribas, on point 2, that I remind her that the game is suspended. And what is really irresponsible or would be irresponsible is not to allocate those funds, the funds from a suspended item, to repeat the 9-N, to the real needs of Catalans. To Mrs Figueras, the truth is, of course, that I have already told her on some occasion: you therefore have a very difficult role to play. But, of course, it says a few things... like, for example, the contingency fund can only be used in health. Well, remember, Councilman Rull, who's already scratched a few... you know? A few millionaires in what we've been doing this year. And, well, also comment you that, so, of course, the contingency fund..., something unexpected; unexpected is that the guaranteed income of citizenship is approved, that you, when the budgets were voted here, said that that was not for guaranteed income and that you could not put a departure – said by the councilwoman –, you could not put a departure because, of course, the law had not yet been passed. So now it is. It's just that you're carrying a mess over that cloth. Comment to Congresswoman Gabriela Serra. I assumed that point 1 was going to be supported and point 2 was obviously not. But, of course, it is that, after listening yesterday to Congressman Benet Salellas..., it is that, of course, I now understand it; I understand that you are not going to vote in favour of point 1 because, as he said, you are in a hurry because society is seeing the improvement of..., it begins to believe, it begins to believe that this works, that it actually works. They think, they have confidence in the democratic state. There's a lot that's starting, huh? You realize we're in a crazy place here, huh? And now you're in a hurry to summon this, huh? Why? Because people are leaving, running, scared. Normal. I'd be scared too after what we've been witnessing here. So, I understand that you are not going to support this point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.123.0	Mrs. De la Calle has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.124.0	... because they are interested; they are interested because they are accomplices of this government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.125.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We're voting for the lady. Since no separate votes have been asked, we will vote on the joint motion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Excuse me. [[Marta Ribas Frías asks to speak.]] Mrs. Ribas, excuse me, huh? I hadn't seen her. Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.126.0	No, Madam President, I'm sorry, because I didn't explain it in my speech, but yes, we want a separate vote first and second. Two votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.127.0	Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.128.0	No, no, First and second points, separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.129.0	Okay. All right. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Clearly, there are only two, obviously. So, the vote on the first point begins. The first point was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. And now we're going to vote the second point. The vote begins. The motion on social protection has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 77 against and no abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into housing policies]] [[302-00185/11]] The split and the last point [[remorse of the voice]] of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the policies of housing, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Mr. Joan Garriga. And thank you so much for going out in a hurry and quiet, so we can continue with the session. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.130.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillor, members of the Habitatage Agency, welcome guests. Since everyone is interpreting what these two days have been like, let me also make a small interpretation of a libertarian xic position; it is said, it was forty-eight black hours, but also of an incest king, who I hope will fill us with life. [[Greetings.]] When we drafted the motion that we are considering today, two considerations danced for the head – surely they are the ones who always dance in most of the groups that present them –: one, to present a motion that fits, as much as possible according to the wishes we said in the inquiry, which we described in the previous question, and the other is to do so so that you can achieve or apply the maximum support for the rest of the groups of this chamber. One time you're rebutting the items, which we appreciate, sincerely appreciate, and consider, we've put or dealt with those items in the same set of those wills, that is, political wills, for one thing, and seeking support and consent. The truth is that in general we have not received much support, not to say that it has been very little, and surely we know that the dynamics, the facts that we have dealt with these days in the House have not allowed, let us say, an appropriate, a parliamentary exercise, in the treatment of the motion, which, therefore, you achieve this consensus. Sure, sure it was, but we don't think it was the only reason or the most important. We think that this chamber, which attaches enough parliamentary consent in other responses to housing needs, is knowing, as we say in the inquiry, of a reality in which thousands of people, hundreds of families find themselves stunned, we said, and who try to survive as they can: violation of rights, despair, vulnerability, precariousness, disclaimers, and also, why not say so? , and we give it in position, from a..., by luck, self-organization, struggle, mobilization and occupation. But this chamber, despite this consensus that we have had other times and that has been criminally raised by Croatians of the central government, also, we think, is an exhibition of a distancing, of a very different political stance for what it does to each parliamentary group, and a distancing that moves us away from the consensus and leads us to positions. And this, we think, this distance between the parliamentary groups of this chamber, we can't store under the criteria of false unanimousness at the time of giving answer to the problems, nor think that the blame has been all that we've been dealing with these two days, but we precisely think that this difference in position for what it does to the right of the habitation can bring them out in a political way, huh? And in this parliamentary case, right? And the reality is that the access to housing today is, more than ever, in a market dynamic, that the housing, the whole of being treated for administrations and for the economy as a necessary thing for the development of the normal life of people and communities, is treated as a product of more market, which is bought, that is, more cheap or more because, according to the law of the offer and demand, according to the wishes of the owner, and, we do not deceive ourselves, according to very concrete interests, speculation, of the bank and of the capital; a reality, we give, or die, the fruit of a legal_marc that favors the property speculation, the treatment of the habitat as a good position, as a good person, and not as a need for a good position. We understand that housing policy is the great challenge it will face..., one of the great challenges we will face as the country. And what we want, what we want, in the outburst of this new republic to which we aspire, is to focus on political action by making the offer of affordable housing and the content of housing prices; to work to guarantee the right to housing; to adapt the offer and conditions of housing tenure; to incorporate new actions and new proposals; in short, to empower, therefore, all those themes that we think are important and that must be contemplated in our commitment to overcome..., to give response to the needs. And in this case we have not identified some in the motion or we have attempted to articulate some: to boost the number and retraction in the line of increasing the housing stock; fiscal policies aimed at combating real estate speculation; to prevent the sale of public land; measures intended to cool down the phenomenon of the tourist housing logger, a concept known to everyone and which today has also formed part of the parliamentary debate, and which has come, it seems, to come out of the mortgage logger and to put us in another logger, which is the logger logger.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. In order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.132.0	Thank you. Good morning, Counselor. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, the motion before us from the CUP, we must say that it had generated expectations for us, both for the inquiry that preceded it and for its intervention in the presentation of the position of its group in the motion that we presented in the last plenary before the holiday. You, Mr. Garriga, are making interventions to prevent us from providing effective solutions to the problems that we have in the field of housing, but the motion that presents to us does not have these general poses of great solutions that seemed to be able to point out, or, if not, we believe that those plans of more general scope and that they are actually of low quality will not, therefore, obtain the support, the consensus necessary to pull forward and that, in the end, they involve effective mandates to the Government in housing policies. The measures that you propose in the motion, in which some may agree, are measures, as we have already said, that those who behave more accurately may not reach consensus, and others are punctual. And some, those with fiscal reforms, are of little economic transcendence; others, like, for example, those that... respect the LAU, in which we have no skills, or others that have already been exposed in our youth and, if I don't recall it badly, also in that of some other group. Therefore, Mr. Garriga, few novelties, few solutions to a complex problem that needs decisive action and leadership from the Government. In the analysis of the proposals, we agree on the need to take measures against urban speculation and on the restrictive regulation of tourist habitats, especially in areas of high demand and accredited. We also agree on tax measures, especially when we are talking about lowering the tax on capital transfers for leases. We are surprised, on the other hand, by the proposal to lower the same tax for what it does to the purchase, when in fact we all seem to agree that we have a certain consensus that the economic effort must focus on empowering the loguer as the formula of tenance, against or opposing it to the purchase, that it is a model that, therefore, is what has prevailed in our country historically. And we also agree on the need to modify the tax on empty habitats, in the sense of having an even greater impact on the mobilization of empty habitats, as well as ensuring that the empty habitats of the Sareb complement their social use. However, we have already said that these measures have little economic impact, and we understand that a greater economic effort should be required of the Government, because at the end of the day, political priorities always need to bring about the necessary economic endowment. On the other hand, we cannot vote in favour of another side, that of the LAU. We have said several times that the work that has been done since the department seems very interesting but that we do not have competitions in this area. But, beyond the competition issue, you make open proposals; they propose to increase the duration of contracts without realising the term and the automatic renewal only according to the will of the loguer, without distinguishing between different types of properties and other factors such as the personal need of the owner. Therefore, it seems to be references, let us say, or full proposals, a statement of intentions, rather than actual proposals. And, lastly, references to the occupation of habitats without enabling title. For us, this is a very delicate issue, which has already been dealt with specifically in a young person. However, in any case, the need to find a solution for people at risk of residential exclusion through the circuits they correspond to so that they do not see the job, because when this happens the whole system is distorted. That is to say, those families who occupy and do not use the corresponding lives, such as, for example, going to the local housing offices, harm those who do use them, thinking, more, that using these lives is able to make an integral treatment of the family's problems that also pass, for example, to deal with the subject of the sub-administrations. We recommend that I speak, in this sense, with the entities of the third sector, that they be able to explain to them the problems with which they find themselves in the cases of occupied habitats. In short, our group will vote separately from the points of this motion, in which we agree in part, but as we have said before, it does not complete the expectations that we had generated for solving problems in the field of housing. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.133.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. The words of Mr. Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.134.0	Good morning, everyone. Well, the first thing I want to do is to say that from our parliamentary group the concern for housing policies is total. We believe that housing policies are fundamental to equal opportunities, social cohesion and well-being. And I would celebrate this debate in this Parliament as I celebrate it in parliamentary normality, and what happens is that yesterday this Parliament broke down and the credibility of this Parliament is more than questioned. For democratic debates..., for a debate to be democratic in a parliament, we have to comply with parliamentary procedures, because that is what equals us all as Members and it is what allows us to participate in those debates and parliamentary procedures on an equal footing. And you have arranged or decided that you can dispose of the law at will, over and above the rule of law, the Statute, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of this institution. So it is very questionable what is happening here, because as you, when the time comes, can go through the lining absolutely all the rules that allow us to participate democratically, because you will already allow me to tell you that with your way of acting you have undermined the usefulness of this Parliament, and it makes it difficult for us to demand compliance with the laws that are adopted here. And they have undermined the authority of this Parliament with authoritarian behaviour; they have struck democracy, and every debate here seems..., to continue the debate on motions as if nothing had happened, so it requires a certain mood to distract itself, to abstract itself from everything that has happened. Beyond this context, we will try to give you an appearance of normality and I will go and comment on some aspects of the motion. With regard to point 1, concern about speculation in tourist flats. Completely agree. Look, I live in Premià de Mar, which is a municipality that apparently doesn't have to have a lot of tourist pressure, and it has it. It has so much tourist pressure that its spokesman, the spokesman of the CUP of recent years in Premià de Mar, has a tourist housing. I'm worried because they'll really understand that I don't like these things happening in my municipality, and less by those who say they're worried. Then, regain the validity of the suspended laws. Well, this is part of the victimism, of the generation of discontent, of « l'erosio de l'Estat; a state erosion that has eventually eroded this Parliament too, which is decentralization of the state – because this sometimes has to be remembered, this is decentralization of the Spanish state, it is part of the decentralization structure. And when you deny that reality, it is difficult for there to be legislative quality. They intend to recover everything suspended by the Constitutional Court. What if we make better laws that do not conflict with the rest of the regulations? I say this because when we don't make good laws here, which conflict and get suspended, the problem..., it serves them a lot to make propaganda, but it certainly doesn't help to solve the problems we have to deal with. [[Some applause.]] And we have also proposed an amendment to them on this point, because instead of proposing to recover the suspended regulations, how about we apply the ones we have, Law 18/2007, which said that by 2027 we would have to have a 15-percent public housing in Catalonia? Of course, it just takes a budget. And when we have proposed to them to vote on some initiative to increase the housing budget significantly and in real terms, they have not given us any support. The amendment we had proposed to them was to recover, fix, not our budgetary aspirations anymore, but the budget that the Generalitat had in 2009. They turned him down. As they have refused to cooperate with the various levels of the Administration. Good. We welcome the fact that we have accepted the amendment to introduce progressive ITP, the property transfer tax. We were surprised that its rebate proposed a rebate for housing of less than five hundred thousand euros. It seemed to us that maybe the stretch was excessive. We thought that it could be done in two stages – one for less than 350,000 and one for less than 250,000 – to make the progressives, but also so that this progressiveness not only distributes the burdens more fairly, but to try to contribute to price containment. Then, the obligation to guarantee a 20_per_cent of social housing in new work or great rehabilitation. The same is true: we proposed that the Generalitat should be involved in the budget and they did not accept it. You announce goals, you want to force the private to do what the public sector doesn't do. We believe that instead of seeking these frameworks of confrontations, cultural wars, ideological wars, we should seek more cooperation between different administrations and also between the public and private sectors. Because what they are proposing is to undermine legal and economic security, and this does not contribute to making the objective they claim to be viable. Finally, I'm going to say again about the appearance of normality. Yesterday we saw what their political game is; everyone saw that they use institutions as a partisan instrument and not to manage public policies for the common good. Our concern about public policies and institutions leads us to want them to work normally. I remember a Member of Junts for Yes, who is in this room and will probably remember that he told me, who said to me: "I am here to work for independence, but while we are also doing other things. This motion is 'the other thing, it is not its main objective, it is the other. And I will remind you that there is no welfare without defense...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.135.0	Mr. Sanz, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.136.0	Yes; now I'm done, please, President. Yeah, we're complaining... you're pretty flexible, or I understand you can give me a little more time, a minute. I will remind you: there is no welfare without the defence of democratic institutions. And the Catalans know that while you pretend...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.137.0	Mr. Sanz, you've run out of time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.138.0	... to erode the, Ciutadans will stand firm in the defense of the institutions, and we will propose improvements from the respect to the norms, from the institutional normality, from the cooperation between the different administrations... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the deputy and he continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.139.0	Sir, Mr. Sanz. [[Sergio Sanz Jiménez continues to speak without using the microphone.]] Mr. Sanz... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Sanz, the cry to order. [[Sergio Sanz Jiménez continues to speak without using the microphone. Greetings.]] Next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] No, no, No, no, Next is the words of Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.140.0	Thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon, good morning to everyone. First of all: Mr. Sanz, that's not it – that's not it. He's not a fan of that sort of thing. Okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's a question of respect for all the other Members we're also in the same seat, for example, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.141.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.142.0	First of all. Well, then. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That said, I don't need to say anything more because only if he believes himself.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.143.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.144.0	Begin. Today we make a motion, we debate a motion of the CUP - Creed Constituent of housing policies, a motion of seven points that combines declared apart with other urban character, with others of fiscal character, with others of legislative modification character, and other planning and strategies of housing policies, already to increase the public housing park or to take into account that it should also have a future law of Catalan urban leases. But also – and no one escapes – in this young man, just as he spoke in the inquiry, it's about the occupations and their possible regulation. In the declarative part, which the Parliament urges, our group largely coincides with the analysis and concern of the proposed group, and therefore calls upon us to do and work to make the necessary actions to recover all the legislation that is pending for the Constitutional Court. An example of this way of trying to recover the legislation that is under consideration is Law 4/2016, which is the fruit and in which it is born part of a law that is under consideration; approved, of course, by unanimity, because of this "we have to make better laws, man, if we are among them all and believe that it is the good and is unanimously approved, so these are also under consideration, not just some that can be considered on the part. Therefore, the recovery of the 4/2016 is the result of a suspension of the 24/2015. What we cannot vote for, from these two declaratory quarters, which urge the Parliament, which are point 1, point 1a and point 2, is point 1a, is the point 1a, which is generally asked for legislative amendment to guarantee the rights of persons residing in occupied dwellings without enabling title. The Law 4/2016 gave..., in its moment, already contemplated this topic, but it contemplated escorting it to people who were at risk of social exclusion. To open it in a generic way as proposed in this point 1 bis we understand that it does not proceed and plays clearly with how we understand the phenomenon of occupations and how they are to be managed. To base policies on the right to housing and its social function is the point of balance that the Administration is asking to give solutions to this reality, but we have to promote policies of social and community intervention to detect who is in need or who takes advantage of their vulnerability. Policies that detract from the grade of the ball, and that differentiate between access policies, that differentiate between false máfias and contracts with information from access policies that already exist today. We start from a principle granted to everyone, that the occupation can never be the expected step of the downgrading of a habitat; therefore, it encourages the case-by-case analysis that allows to articulate through the existing mechanisms and through the months of emergence the proposal and the solution that there must be. The motion also proposes to declare the whole city of Catalonia as the area subject to the right of aunt and retraction. We understand that this proposal, therefore, apart from encroaching on municipal competences, seeks to replace that in which we all agreed a few months ago that it had to be, that the law says, that it is to expand this area, of seventy-two municipalities, of strong accredited demand, to 233. We understand that criteria of need are set that set this increase from seventy-two to 233 and are always open, depending on whether the criteria are met, to be able to expand, so it is not limited. But, well, we understand that they can't, today, not yet, huh? , to harmonize the whole of this country in a uniform manner with its proposal. Apart from taxation, the Generality in one of the proposals has no regulatory competence, apart from the fact that it would be useful to calibrate the economic impact of its application, but we understand that with a motion of seven points and with this thematic slogan, we understand that it requires a more substantive debate and we cannot support it. We have submitted seven papers, no matter what they have been accepted, we understand that all of them could have been accepted, so we presented them, and we did so to express our willingness, therefore, to achieve as always great consensus on these issues, but now it has not been so. Still, Mr. Garriga, I appreciate your willingness to try to agree, while with this young man you have other alliances. Maybe in another ple, maybe in another young man, maybe in another week, huh? , the final formulation of the motion would have been different. But, well, with no chance of closing the door or generating any frustration, we, therefore, are willing to agree when it is appropriate to do so. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.145.0	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.146.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly – some things have already been said –, apologize because we would have liked to be able to work more intensely on this young man. To say that in general the proposal you announce and, let us say, the axes that will inspire us, therefore, sympathy, inspire us, therefore, will be able to vote in favour of it. Tanmateix, there are some nuances that I think are necessary. The first has been said, it has been suggested to me that in the previous intervention, for which it does to the treatment of the situation of occupied habitats without enabling title. I think it's important and the wording there is in the proposal that is submissive to us is evil. Curse in the sense that it encompasses situations that are diverse and require different treatment, from situations of risk of social exclusion to very complex situations that are given in the metropolitan area and in many of Catalonia's rights of illegal occupations that create significant problems of coexistence, and that pose in question the access to social services to which citizens are entitled. Therefore, this ambiguity, which we have discussed more than once, is inconvenient to refer it or to recommend it here – this ambiguity. Therefore, at 1 a.m., we will vote against it. To say that there is an assertion that we share it, but that what is formulated after concretely obliges us to abstain, or to abstain. When it is said: "Modify fiscal policies to make it difficult for real estate speculation, listen, we applaud with the ears. Similarly, such an ambitious formulation is followed by a whole series of proposals for tax changes that among those that are dubious it is possible to implement them due to lack of skills and, together, the little or difficult..., we find it very difficult to quantify what is the real impact of what is proposed, the truth. And, in addition, with some formulations that, for what he does to the established trams, they seem very questionable to us and would require a debate with greater advice than we can have at these times. Therefore, we here will abstain. The same way I seem unfortunate also this formulation of the automatic renewal of contracts. Without... Here too we have the question, which we agree, that even though we do not have competitions over the LAU we can claim and we can claim from Parliament amendments to the Law of Urban Rentals. But I don't seem to be lucky with the last formulation either, because it's already understood that it's about trying to protect the rights of the login, but it's still a contract, a contractual relationship between two parts, huh? And while this is so, then, we need to respect the possibility of agreement or disagreement between the parties. Another thing is that we guarantee terms that protect the rights of the login, which is the weakest part of the current contractual relationship. But we simply cannot resolve this by acting as if you do not have a contractual relationship. I, well, nothing more. Therefore, in the rest of the points, we will vote in favour, bearing these objections. And let me finish, because everyone wanted to make their phrase more or less poetic, to end this extraordinary Ple. We all have our comic book, we've all been young, and I still remember when I was young and when I had a CNT notebook, at the time we still shared a militancy with Federica Montseny, who ended up between recommendations to the affiliates and said: "Company, don't ever forget that your country is the world and your family's humanity. This seems very naive, so it has thanked millions of people far from the story and some of us are still grateful enough. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.147.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. The words "Mr. Alberto Villagrasa of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia" continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.148.0	Yes, President. Counsellor, Members..., Mr Garriga, we will vote against the motion, because, although it has sixteen points, basically the two most important are: one, which tries to intervene in the market, when they say that they want all the urbanizable land of Catalonia to be submitted to the tanteo and retraction, which cannot be done legally, although I already know that this of the legality to you, then..., does not go with you. And, the second, because they want to legalize the "okupation, the occupation with ka. That's his big housing proposal for Catalonia, the occupation. It has a very curious purpose, therefore, to occupy a property so that then you occupy it and say 'here I stay and this is mine. And speaking of property, gentlemen of the CUP, you have something that is ours. They have something that is ours and that Mrs. Àngels Martínez gave them on Wednesday. On Wednesday, the People's Party Group suffered an abuse of its freedom of expression. The seats of the People's Party were invaded and the flags of Spain that we put in our seats were ripped off. That is an attack on the symbolic space occupied by each Member, who is the seat. And an attack on freedom of expression. Mr Rabell, as chairman of your group, you can tell Mrs Àngels Martínez that we, myself, would never do it. Never. [[Some MPs peck their hands at the bait.]] If Mrs Àngels Martínez believed that in order to support the cause she must be absent and leave a banner in her seat, a flag or a red rag with the sickle and the hammer, I would never remove it from her seat, out of respect for her status as a Member and out of respect for her right to freedom of expression. And by the way, a flag was left, which together with the lady presides over this plenary room. And those flags were handed over to you, gentlemen of the UPC and I ask you to send them to the People's Parliamentary Group. I beg you to send them to us, because they are ours, before you think about doing..., I don't know, burning them, vilifying them, those things that you like to do from time to time or that make you so much fun. Because for the deputies of the People's Party to defend our signs of identity, the flag of Spain and the lady of Catalonia is a duty. Not like others who have done with the lady, for example, is to corner her and change her for the stellate. For us it is very important to defend the signs of identity, whether the lady of Catalonia or the flag of Spain. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.149.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.150.0	Thank you, President. Well, Congresswoman Ibarra. I'm sorry I haven't been up to expectations; we'll work to be there, not in doubt, we'll work to be there, huh? The other one, though, they're surprised, huh? Surprise this consensus that there is between Junts for the Yes, the Socialist Party and Mr. Rabell in their interpretations at the time of interpreting our motion, that consensus, huh? , which has been done in such a way as to barricade everything, a few..., not to have been at the height of expectations, in such a bad way; that this consensus between these three forces has not been realized, therefore, in an advent or in an important signification of our laws that allow us to give answer to the housing needs that we have. Or did you expect the CUP to come and do it? Clearly, if three political forces that you had this vision so... – and what respect, eh? , and what about and we will take them into account–, and that you have shown a consensus at the time of analyzing our motion, man, apply this consensus also at the time of bringing forward the concrete policies of this country that allow us to give concrete response to the housing needs we have. [[Greetings.]] I'm telling you, let's do it. And the other... now I don't see it, Sergio Sanz..., ah, yes, Sergio Sanz. Miri, the access to our habitat we understand is present today more than ever with a flood and a dramatic reality and touching the spring of the bone. And we haven't been one of them for a long time, we've made it clear that social claims are strictly linked to national claims. And at these times, more or less, we are aware or think that the possibilities, in the construction march of the new republic, in the march of illusion, with the will to make a better world, are found, we have many more opportunities to give answer to the housing needs than in the march of a state that has put the right of habitation, eh? , in the current account of speculation. And that's why we say: let's take a game, and let's take a game for the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.152.0	To ask for separate votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.153.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.154.0	That's a few, huh? L'1 bis, the 3, the 5, the 8, the 12 and the 14, for a band; the 15, and the rest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.155.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Mr. Rabell, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.156.0	Yes; by vote, by vote, exactly. Ask..., it seems to me that the Socialist Party was demanding, but I would also ask for a separate vote from point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.157.0	Mr. Solsona, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.158.0	Also to ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.159.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.160.0	From 1, 2 and 14b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.161.0	Okay. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.162.0	Yes; separate vote on items 1a, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 8, 9, 10, 12, 13, 14 and 15.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-08-4203.163.0	You know what? That we would vote them all apart, because it's that I was trying to make numbers of what I was asked for, and it's practically very complicated. [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the vote. We will vote for each other separately, because I was watching that the only one is the 14th, that we can vote on the 14th and then on the 14th; it is the only one that seems to me to be going away, but all the others really have to go away. So, we'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 115 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. The 1 bis point was rejected by 8 votes in favour, 116 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 90 votes in favour, 34 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 6 votes in favour, 107 against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 22 votes to 67, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That no separate vote has been requested, from this point. Point 5_has been rejected by 7 votes in favour, 107 against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 32 votes to 67, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 32 votes to 67, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 17 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been rejected by 32 votes to 67, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been rejected by 32 votes to 67, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been rejected by 42 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 17 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 13. The vote begins. Point 13_has been rejected by 31 votes to 67, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on item 14, but 14th and c; and that is why a separate vote of 14b has been requested. Therefore, the vote begins. Point 14a was rejected by 7 votes to 116, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote for point 14.b. The vote begins. Point 14.b_has been approved by 75 votes to 49, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 15. The vote begins. Point 15 has been rejected by 17 votes to 92, with 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 16. The vote begins. The Housing Policy Movement was rejected by 55 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Thank you very much, everyone. And the session goes up.
