ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.1.0	The session begins. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Good morning to all of you, all of you, all of you, but unfortunately I have to tell you that yesterday a woman died in Syria as a result of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the first victim of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime, and express my most sincere condolences to family and friends. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. I would also like to inform you that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, the Member of Parliament, Assumption Laïlla, of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, has delegated her vote to the chairman of your group, Mr Jordi Turull. Also the deputy Marta Ribas, of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot, has delegated his vote to the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. And the Socialist Parliamentary Group's Assumpta Escarp has also delegated her vote to Mr. Miquel Iceta. They know that MP Escarp has had a hard illness, and we want them all to have a very quick recovery. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is in the Ple folder. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as per the order of the day, to the gods of the morning. And also in agreement with the request made by the Government and the compliance of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the proposal, in agreement with Article 81.3 of the Rules, an alteration of the agenda, which is that the question to the Government about the actions to prepare for a possible secession, which was the point number 1, can be substantiated in point number 4, and the one to be substantiated in point number 4, is further substantiated in point number 1. I suppose there's consent... [[Pause.]] Can this alteration be approved with your consent? [[Pause.]] Okay. So the order of the day is changed at this point. [[Asking the Government about obtaining tax data]] [[300-00122/11]] And now we start with the question to the government..., sorry, "with the question: question: [[Funnel veils]] ... with the inquiry, yes, to the Government on the obtaining of tax data, presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.2.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, president, vice president, councillors, deputies and deputies. The Socialist Group is asking the government today to clarify, so that we can clarify the information that we wanted to know, the information that we wanted to know on the past 26 genera, from the hand of some media, stop from various statements of the former, already, Senator of Republican Left Santiago Vidal. Mr. Vidal, you know, carried, seems to be, months walking through the territory, through the country, explaining in different conferences and talks as it should be the process. Some of this information, the truth, whether it's lying or the truth, makes you put your hair at the top, and I wouldn't know if it's harder than it is to be true or to be lied, but in any case this is not a judgment that we need to do at these times. And above all, it's hard to take into account that Mr. Vidal is a judge and, therefore, a very good legalist, and even more so, he was a Senator of the Republican Left, a spokesman of the Republican Left to the Senate, therefore with an institutional representation and an important institutional responsibility. Well, in those lectures I said a lot of things, I won't go into all because we would certainly need all morning, but I would like to put up with it or I would like to put up with my parliamentary group on one of the issues, which are the tax data. Mr. Vidal, in these lectures and in some that we have been able to visualize through the networks, therefore, we saw with a smile at the mouth and with a lot of frivolity, excessive frivolity, said that the government had fiscal data of all Catalans, that obviously they had obtained illegally and that we were all filed, didn't we? This was his sentence, which we were all in control, and therefore, this hard statement, whether true or false..., but in any case what we want is to clarify what size and what natural they are. Therefore, from the outset, Councillor Junqueras, Vice-President, we would like you to confirm or deny these statements by Mr Vidal, who, as I said, are difficult, and we would like you to do so in your Parliament, because until now, after almost two weeks, we have not yet been able to listen to a member of the Government in his Parliament to give explanations. Therefore, today we give you the opportunity to do so. Second place and time answered this question, which we can sense your answer, we would like to reflect around the tax data, a reflection that I would like to share with everyone we are here today. Miri, the Government of Catalonia – and this knows very well – has access to data from Catalans and Catalans, many data; data..., legally, obviously, no? And, to give an example, therefore, the Generality has our data through the health card; it has our data if we are students who have obtained a scholarship from the Generality, it has our thanks for this; if we have paid some day the inheritance tax, it has these data... That is to say, the Generality has data from Catalans, obviously, and legally, but it does not have all the data from all Catalans. There are partial data from Catalans and not complete, and this is an element that would be very useful to clarify. And if we talk about physical people, there are some; if we talk about entrepreneurs, here things are complicated a little, because there is more difficulty in getting and getting data from the business sector or the product web. Therefore, he does not have massive data from the Catalans, he does not have the data necessary to be able to collect all the taxes from the 1st day of independence, which according to the Lord Saved, in a conference that took place on the 15th of September – four days ago – to Terrassa, therefore, he said that this 1st day should be the 1st of September. You don't have the data to do, to have, to be able to do this recap, and, therefore, let's say that this beginning, this day 1, seems complicated that you can pull forward. Because, Mr. Junqueras, counselor, you know as well as I do that who has all the data, currently, Catalan tax agents is the Spanish tax agency. And if you and the government are not able to reach an agreement with the tax agency, it seems difficult that we can get them. Illegally they cannot be achieved, and surely that is what you will explain to me, but surely the most logical way to achieve them would be with an agreement. Because, according to this government, and also, if we are not able to have fiscal data that allows us – a database – to collect all taxes, it will be difficult for an independent state to survive, in a colloquial way. Listen to me, we're talking about thousands of data, because when we talk about all the data from Catalans, we talk about a lot of data. And, besides, it's not the tax data of a year, of today, of today's photo: it's the data of a history; we need a history to be able to collect a lot of taxes, like the IRPF, which is a mass tax, or corporation tax. So, there's a lot of data. A lot of data, more than that, that you're alive. It's to say, today, unfortunately, people are dying, there are no others, a person is left in the dark, a person begins to work, a person has a child, takes the low of motherhood... All these constant data, that pass every day, must be updated. The database is not a photo, it's alive, and the mechanisms and interface you need to have this database, but above all to update it day by day, are complex, very complex. And you know that, despite the fact that you insist that on September 1st, we will set aside the collection of all taxes in Catalonia. Look, Mr. Junqueras, I'd say it's almost impossible to do this on September 1st, not to say impossible at all; impossible especially if the Generality didn't get this agreement with the tax agency. And I'm not saying, we have to make this deal, because obviously I don't want the secession of Catalonia from the rest of Spain, do I? , but the report number 2 of the Council Counsellor for the National Transition already talks about it, of this. And it is obviously the scenario that there can be no agreement or contemplating it, and it says: "Because we, because Catalonia can be an independent country, must come to an agreement with the Spanish tax agency, in order to obtain these data in order to be able to recapitulate and be a country that survives. Because, listen'm, we need every month, if it is to be independent, 5,000_million euros a month– 5,000_million euros a month–, today in reception 1,200 a year, with taxes given and with taxes payable. Therefore, the difficulties are very great. And tell this report that what needs to be done is an agreement with the agency and a consortium that can generate a..., can allow a transition to this independent state. That's to say, it already explains things, but what it doesn't explain is how unilaterally – that's what you say you won't do, but where you go – it can be a state and it can be somehow, therefore, effective and effective and respond to all the demands and needs that a country has. But, look, returning to tax data, so important and so vital, it's true, to be able to collect and manage taxes. Mr Salvadó said, in this conference that I gave to Terrassa..., that it is also curious that Mr Salvadó..., seems to me to have appeared twice to the Committee on Economic Affairs and has explained more things in this conference of the Catalan National Assembly to Terrassa than to the Committee on Economic Affairs. I listened to the thirty-seven minutes of this lecture by the Lord Saved; I already tell him that he gave much more information, that afterward I would go downhill, than the one he gave to the Committees of Economy. This is also surprising for a country that wants to be transparent and wants to be democratic and wants to enter another or a new dynamic, you say. Well, at this conference, he explained that a database is being created, which is the key to tax collection. And he says, "a database that we're going to nudge or we're nudge with a hundred and thirty sources of information. Mr. Junqueras, after the question I asked at first, can you assure us that these one hundred and thirty sources of information that Mr. Saved is talking about are legal? I'd appreciate it if you could answer that question. And, look, I'm telling you this... because you're going to say, "Home, she's suspicious. Well, I say this because in the Tax Code, to the Tax Code Law, which is going on at these times in Parliament – certainly, a little stuck, but is going on – you are talking about collaborations between the tax agency and, for example, the local administration. And the local administration, if it agrees with the tax agency, could transfer the burden of managing some taxes – the IBI, the fines, etc. – which is what makes at these times much of the seats in our country. Certainly, I don't know if there's any joint that's already knocked on the door to ask him that he wants to be the first on the list because it's the tax agency that manages these taxes. But in any case, you also know that, if you make a joint arrangement with the tax agency to handle these taxes, you can use the tax databases of these citizens for these taxes on which you are responsible; not to do other things. It's to say, if Mataró, to put my city in charge of managing the IBI and recapitulating the fines, then you can't use these data to collect the IRPF from the citizen. I can do that for that, because, if not, that would be illegal; we agree – I see they say yes with the head. So, I'd like you to challenge exactly this: listen to me, these hundred and thirty sources of information that say you're getting the data to make this base..., is that legal? And if with these sources you believe the government, you think you'll get the tax data you need to be able to collect all taxes. Because here's the issue that we're interested in: knowing if with these one hundred and thirty fonts you think you can get all the data to collect all the taxes that Mr. Saved says on September 1st you can start to recap and you can start working as a tax agency. This is a key element for us: what are they doing and what do you really think they can do with what they're using? Therefore, if you answer these questions, we could continue, in the second part, to enter a little more detail. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, continued to respond.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.4.0	Well, good morning to everyone. It's a pleasure to have the opportunity to explain again, and therefore to thank you for this first intervention, by Mrs. Alicia Romero, and I'm sure they will be produced at the length of the day. It is a pleasure to be able to explain why we are convinced that we do everything we have to do and that we do it strictly as we do. And, therefore, we do everything that we are close to and do as we are close to, from the legal mark in force and from any legal mark that there is. So, listen, all the peace of mind with respect, and not just with respect, huh? , also intellectual and professional, to respect. So you're telling me, "Explain what they're doing. I think you already know that, but in any case I take advantage of the opportunity to explain to you another time, which is what we do from the government around this issue. The Generality, in the restored version of the current Generality, from practically the first moments, has managed fiscal data. At the beginning few data, of little complexity, and as time has passed, so, every time more data and one complexity every time major. Indeed, there are many sources of respect information. You refer to some of them; I will also quote some of them to illustrate who are these types of information sources that allow us to manage these data. So, for example, cadastral data, which the General Directorate of Disaster assigns to all autonomous communities to manage the asset transfer tax; therefore, one of these fonts. Or the dark-butxacal machine censuses; so, listen, another one of these fonts. Death relationships. You said to me: "Unfortunately, there are people who are dying, people who are not... Indeed, it has always been like this and all the way around the world, without exception. And we have a relationship of the deaths that AEAT facilitates for us to manage the inheritance tax. Therefore, from fonts, there are many, I hope that these examples that I set, therefore, serve to illustrate the types of fonts that we, and everyone, serve. Anyone in our circumstances also serves them. Then, there is a whole other block of data, which is derived from the processing and settlement of each of the taxes, obviously. And that, of course, generates a history. Yes, of course..., yes, as in any other administration: municipal, autonomous, state, etc. What does the tax agency currently do? Who are the challenges facing the tax agency? So, they're very big, these reps, obviously, yes. And you also know why we treat them here at every session. Traditionally, at least until now, the tax agency that has managed, basically, are taxes of legal nature: donations, estates, property transfers, documented legal acts, etc. They are taxes of legal nature, I said, of a certain complexity, they are not periodic, they do not respond to large censuses. And, on the other hand, what are the challenges of the future? So, precisely, be able to face the management of taxes that do have a periodic character, that do respond to large censuses, etc. You know them well– you know them well–; for example, the tax on establishments for tourist stays. So, it's obvious that this is already beginning to be a tax that affects a great hundred. Or another, which will result from the approval of the nine fiscal figures that we are dealing with, such as, for example, the management of 4.5_million cars. So, yes; it's a..., it's already starting to be, a big cents. Moreover, they have a periodic character, because they are repeated in time. Then there are some other types of reptiles, which are not derived from how we assume these taxes that affect large censuses and that are periodic, that are all the reptiles of technological character, of major demand on the part of society, each time more digitized, the new forms of relationship between the agency and the contributors, the telematic processing, the electronic payments, etc. To face these two great blocks – imposed on us and these new forms of management – to face all these challenges, therefore, it is obvious that the agency is doing things. For example – for example – the progressive replacement of the G@udí computer program for a new computer system, which is e-SPRIU. You also know this: the G@udí program was a program... – it is about fifteen years old, roughly; therefore, it is technologically obsolete force –, it was a program very designed for those taxes of legal nature, for those taxes of non-periodic character, and it is obvious that we need a new information system that can manage this new reality. Therefore, the e-SPRIU responds to this will: taxes that affect large censuses, that are repeated, etc. Is that enough? No, that's not enough. In fact, we also had, for example, to debug existing databases; because, among other things, we had a contributory base of 13_million, roughly, and we proceeded to debug it, because many of these data were repeated data, poor data, expired data, etc. And this allowed us to reduce it to about 7_million; practically, half. Therefore, there is a great deal of cleansing to make effective, for example, the fight against fraud, the fight against tax evasion, etcetera, or that there are errors or that the same processing is repeated twice, or that it does not stop to occur because there is an error in the data that is available at that time or because these data are fallen or for the reason that it follows. How'd that happen? How's that? It's done through the development of data quality tools, it's done through a new data management system, the master data management, etc. Therefore, this is understood, this is added to the development of the e-SPRIU: clear the data we have to make them more effective, these data will still be available to the G@udi while you are in operation and, obviously, will be available to the new system as soon as you enter full operation. The first effectively functioning inn of the e-SPRIU will be produced around '1 July, or 1 July in concrete. All this, I insist, is essential to have an effective fight against fraud, tax evasion, etc. With regard to the second question that you raised... it seems to me that I had two great questions: one, what do we do, and the other, if what we do is strictly legal, let's say it. Absolutely. In fact, you know that on the same day, 27 genera, you sell, we asked the Data Protection Agency for an audit, it's an audit that's been going on since the 30th genera, so it's been a few days. And they'll have the public results, because you know that all the results of this kind of work, so, they're public. And they know that the agency, in this sense, the Data Protection Agency, therefore, has great prestige in its management. So, what's he gonna prove? That the dice they serve are the dice we have to serve. It's here. Summary of the intervention, then? We do the work that surrounds us, we do it with the will to be as effective as possible, we also do it from the maximum of rigor, because it seems to us that precisely our credibility, that sure someone will want to put into doubt, is precisely based on doing things as rigorously as possible. And we're at the disposal of the Data Protection Agency or whoever it is to clarify any doubts about respect. So we do everything we have to do, and we do it the way we do it. It's here. In any case, it will now also be a pleasure to be able to answer questions that come affigides.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.5.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's the word the lady Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.6.0	Vice President, I've asked him two questions very – very, very – clear, eh? : whether it was true or not what Judge Vidal had said. He didn't mention it. I suppose, of course, it is unpleasant to keep a person who has put the Government in such a delicate situation. But perhaps you could have said: "Miri, the one who said Mr. Vidal, Mrs. Romero, is not true. I could've said it, and we'd all be quieter. Even so, it is true, the Data Protection Agency is analysing and will surely say that the data is not illegal, because I trust this government and because it is very difficult to obtain the data illegally; very difficult, not to say impossible. But, look, listen, at this conference I gave you from Mr. Saved – and I know it's hard to go to this Terrassa conference on the 15th of December of last year, but when you see here, you don't explain so many things to us, so, of course, a_have to go to the fonts– he tells us that on September 1st they will collect all taxes and manage all the taxes that Catalans pay to Catalonia. But you need two things, basically: u, the database. Now you're explaining to me that they have data, and I'm telling you, partial data, but you don't have all the data. I mean, you can't fight... – now I'll set my example – you can't fight me, against my corruption, if it's in you, because you don't have my data. How do you want to fight the tax fraud if you don't have the data on all the Catalans? It's got the dice of some, partial. So don't say you're going to fight the tax fraud, because you don't have the data to fight the tax fraud. I mean, let's not deceive anymore – let's not deceive anymore – Mr. Junqueras. And then another thing you need to be able to collect and manage taxes, beyond the database, is staff. Today we have 400 people at the tax agency, we would need 5,000 – 5,000. I'm not saying it, the Counselor for the National Transition said it, and, besides, Mr. Saved at this Terrassa conference. September 1 probably in tingum 800. Home, 800 to 5,000, that's a few. Home, we can all be supermans, but, vaguely, it doesn't seem – it doesn't seem – possible to recap all of this. But it is that, moreover, the Lord Saved, in this conference, you say: "Look, we are analyzing different scenes; but the most common one – and use this parola col·loquial– " – the most common one – would be that in which we do not agree with the state agency, with the tax agency, and therefore do not pass these data on to us. And we would find ourselves at a point where neither data nor personal; because, more than that, you say... – which is really a little surprising, the phrases you use, sixty-second minute of the conference –, you say: "Miri, a staff that we have no idea what they will work at the agency and do not have no idea of taxes, how they are managed by the taxes of the State." That's literal. Huh? You said that in the sixty-second minute of this conference. So, we have a staff that won't arrive because we won't be able to hold it, we won't have the database, and you won't agree with the tax agency, will you? So, listen to'mix' me as you say you can retrieve and manage all taxes. Because here at the end of what we have the feeling, Mr. Junqueras, is that there is a great deception. Miri, it's true... I mean, the government has been working since the law, they haven't gotten any illegal data. We agree, and that's what we already share; that's to say, we already believe it – I'd just miss it! – we trust this government. But what we don't trust is what you say they do, because they can't do it – because they can't do it – and, therefore, this scenario's addition to what Mr. Saved was talking about, an obviously very difficult scenario, to me that I would like you to explain to us how they will save him? And if they can't save him, let them explain the truth to us and don't fool us any more. Now, I have to tell you one thing too: we don't have to suffer much, do we? Because Mr. Saved at this conference is tremendous, he says that "everything will work out and everything will depend on what is at that conference, on Terrassa." A listening people, great; moreover, who really believe the process for independence, and the saved Lord says to them: "Do you know from whom it will depend that we can collect all the taxes? From you, if the day of the referendum we go out to vote and win it for a 60_per_cent. That day – that day – we will get the people..., it is to say, that the collection of taxes is effective. Why? Because all Catalans, businesses and banks – he says – were going to pay taxes to the tax agency. Home, honestly... huh? Well, that's a good point, isn't it? , holy reference – you have to achieve so many things, eh? Well... I honestly think they should be a little more realistic, because Mr. Salvado didn't say it three years ago, he said it four days ago; Secretary of Hisenda of a serious country, strict like Catalonia! Home, you can't say these things. It seems to me that we need more rigour, more ease, more certainty. Because, besides, you know, you're playing with the illusions of a lot of people that you legitimately believe in the process. Look, I don't believe it, it's okay, but there are a lot of people who do. Then I..., really, Mr. Junqueras, a prec – a prec –: do not deceive anymore. They don't make false expectations of those people who have so many illusions set in you. As a matter of fact, I don't pull the pilot forward just thinking about tomorrow's tactics. Please, be strict. Rule a country is a serious thing. It's true that we see little government, but it's very much going to be governing a country. And we ask them a little more rigour and a little more respect for the Catalans, who really deserve it. I, Mr Junqueras, in this concrete case, we do not see any rigour. You say things that can't be accomplished. So tell us the truth. It's all right. If we can't make it until 2025, then until 2025. But don't fool, because September 1st won't pass what you say, because, Mr. Saved says, they don't have data, they don't have personnel. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] And, therefore, we can't do that as you say. And he won't be able to fight the fraud, because he doesn't have the dice to fight.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.7.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.8.0	Then, sir, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.9.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.10.0	Mr Junqueras... – yes, I am – Mr Junqueras, please be honest and be honest with Catalans and Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.11.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.12.0	Well, good day to you one more time. Mrs Romero, I'm honest and honest. I'll explain. You asked me: "Explain what you are doing. I explain it; one time I explained it, it's not a chance to beat the king I told him about, and then what he does is build a scene in which you question what will happen in the future. Listen, with all confidence, with what we do now and with what we will do in the future, have this confidence, so we won't discover it in this confidence. You tell me: "You will not be able to fight the tax fraud. Listen, we're already fighting against the prosecutor's fraud now! In the last two years we have raised 170_million euros of tax fraud! So, when you say "you can't do it, no, it's not that we can't do it, it's that we're already doing it – we're already doing it. Why do I hurt him as long as I say we fight my tax fraud? That you don't agree with fighting the tax fraud? That you don't recognize me that in the last two years we have actually raised 170_million euros of tax fraud with these scarce data that you are saying we have? So, listen, if with all these limitations that we have, we can do all this and do it as well as we do it – and, in fact, you haven't replicated the king I've explained to you here – then, listen, then I mean you have to be even more confident about what we're going to do. What's the reception? The resignation to continue in a model in which it was possible that there would be 170_million euros of tax fraud that we have raised? What do we have to do? Give up there? Surrender us? Don't you? And if I may, so is another reflection that seems to me to be bound. Listen, Mr. Santi Vidal, the judge Santi Vidal has been a person who has been unjustly persecuted, yes or no? Yeah. She was unfairly persecuted and disqualified – and disqualified – to make a text, to make a study, yes? How many things harder than writing a text or doing a study are fanciful in different parliamentary groups, in different institutions and in different governments and no one has disabled them? Therefore, listen, Mr. Vidal – Mr. Santi Vidal – has been the object of unjust persecution, yes, and unjust gain, too, and unjust disqualification, absolutely. And we can say this with all confidence and with all calmness and with a smile, yes, too, because we do have absolute peace of mind. Listen to this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Listen to this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.13.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.14.0	There's a minister of the Interior, or an ex-interior who's heard all the pleas conspiring with a trial to raise false evidence that they claim and pride themselves on doing everything possible to submerge the health system in Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] What did they resign? – what have they resigned? That someone's disabled them? What's going on...? [[Greetings.]] Or, on the contrary, does a judge and other presiding officer continue a committee in the Congress of Deputies appointed by a parliamentary group to which the group to which his party belonged allowed the investiture? So, listen, I'm already used to it, and we're all used to it being helped with an absolutely different measuring rod, but we don't complain about it, huh? – we don't complain about it – it's a huge opportunity to do things much better and to be able to get out here and explain what we're doing when you ask me. September 1st – September 1st – what we will have is the e-SPRIU program in operation, because the first version will be in operation from July 1st; September 1st we will have the deployment of the offices that are in our own, of these fifteen new offices, one of which has already been opened, which joins those that already exist. On September 1, therefore, we will have a whole series of tools that we do not have at this time. And the fact that we have these tools is good or painful for the management, for the good management of this country, for the trust of taxpayers, for the fight against fraud, for the fight against tax evasion? It's good, and that's why we'll do it, and that's why we'll have more staff, and that's why we'll have better computer tools and we'll never stop doing everything that's close to the people of this country, even though some of you know it's hard. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.15.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Statement by the President of the Generality on the trial for the 9 November 2014 consultation]] President, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.16.0	Yes, for a point of order. You've made reference before, you've given account...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.17.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.18.0	...of the absences of some Members for reasons of malaise, and I would like to address the chamber, making use of the Rules, to explain what is also an absence of a Member against her will, Mrs. Irene Rigau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.19.0	President, forward. As much as I can do, even though, even though it is a matter of order, is it aware that the work is coming back and that, therefore, if you intervened in other groups, you could also intervene? [[Pause.]] All right, let's go. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.20.0	Good morning, Madam President. Members of Parliament, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, today there is a Member in this House who cannot attend, not because of malalty or lowness. Our company Irene Rigau is being judged at these moments together with those who have also been companions of all of us and who have occupied the places of the highest governmental responsibility of the country, President Arthur Mas and Vice President Joana Ortega. They are accused of the crime of being faithful to the task that this Parliament did to them, which was also faithful to the task of the citizens. That is why today this Parliament, in the first plenary session convened and held during the trial on 9 November of the 14th, cannot act as if nothing had happened, cannot look at any other side, nor can it be romantic, regardless of the fact that, at these times, political leaders have been judicious and allowed more than 2,3_million citizens to participate in that day and to whom I wanted to hear a clear and clear message that they wanted to resolve the political problem by voting in the ballot box. I have asked for the word to be put in front of the chamber representing the people of Catalonia of this exceptional situation and to formulate some considerations that go beyond the moment and reflect the growing concern there is in the case of the Catalan society in general. The vast majority of Catalan society, think of what should be the link between Catalonia and Spain, has shown enough an exemplary democratic attitude and has also shown – always – that when it has tried to mobilize itself to defend fundamental rights it has done so like another: to reject terrorism, to oppose the war in Iraq, to rebel against the government's lies in the times of 11-M or, in these last five years and in a way without precedent to Europe, to demand to vote. The recent drift, accelerated and aggravated by the feeling against the Statute of Catalonia and the previous campaign of gathering of orchestrated firms a few years ago confirm that the Spanish democracy has a structural problem that has deteriorated it. A democracy that sends to judgment the political leaders of a day as edifying and healthy as November 9, a day that creates a deep and noble sense of citizenship, is a democracy that has embalmed, and already goes from the moon. He did not make it clear during the Transition and now he has lost credibility in the hands of some powers that now know that they have always been there, despite the fact that for a few years it seemed or that they had turned away or that they had converted. Today's Spanish democracy allows a political trial for the President of Catalonia and two members of his government without blushing or wondering what a good part of the international public opinion is questionable. A news in an international media outlet made sure yesterday that this judgment – I quote literally – is not something that one hopes to see in Europe. A few hours later it was the influential Liberal International that expressed itself, yesterday late, in very strong terms: "This trial is a farce and a theater. Euro MPs from different countries have also expressed great concern about the drift that is following the Spanish state. But the Spanish political system does not pass, as can be proved. There's nothing to worry about. It has the first opposition party completely handed over to the ruling party; it has another party that already acts as an internal current, today liberal, yesterday social-democratic and tomorrow what it takes to finish guaranteeing the government's placidity; it has the media, public and private media, that deal with falsifying its position, if it falls with a wall of misinformation and sometimes real manipulations and lies, so that the Spanish society has difficulty in contrasting the propaganda that they are served in different formats. President Mas, Vice President Ortega and Councilwoman Rigau are guilty of believing in Parliament and believing in the idea that in democracy the first person to attend and listen to are the citizens that the possible fan. Without them, without the citizens, there can be government, there can be legalization, there can be courts, but there is no democracy or freedom. A democracy that doesn't care what people think and want is incomplete, it's flawed, it's framed by limits that are no longer in the hands of people. A reply to which he preceded on 9 November confirms that we have already accredited a majority to the ballot box and to Parliament that it wants to decide its future, and also confirms the call to the dialogue to resolve this conflict on a permanent basis and also to the willingness to reach agreements. To all this, no dialogue, no pacts, no proposals. Judges and threats, and a variable democracy of intensity that is regulated at the convenience of the majority that governs. Thus, the State can cynically disobey court judgements, as well as the Constitutional, without being required by anyone else. Incomplete up to thirty-four sentences, some in areas as sensitive as scholarships or 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF; nothing goes wrong. When the State incompletes the feelings, it is seen that the state of right has to come out reinforced. The European Parliament issues a report in 2016 where it is denounced that Spain is the third state with the most expedients open to fail – fail – the European law. I don't think anything's going on either. The citizens of Catalonia who are expressed in support of the President pass by to be coercionators of justice and want them with less rights than those who have a third and former head of the State who advises a good rush to the President More. Or the director of a diary who first accuses and then finess the verdict that should be given to the court when the trial is not over yet. It does not mean that advising the President of Catalonia's bailout has no condemnation and that pressing justice from the front page of a newspaper is seen with absolute normality, the normality of impunity. Because in Spain the president of the Generality can sit on the bench of the accused to put the ballot boxes, but the minister responsible for the Iak-42 is taken back to the Council of State. Because you can alter the election results with false reports processed and paid with funds reserved to destroy the reputation of President Mas or Mayor Trias, and no one comes up with or with a sad fine. Because it reveals the conspiracy of the Minister of the Interior and the existence of a political police and it's still archived. Because it informs the foreigner of police officials who accumulate assets and money that will heat thirty lives of police employees to be able to justify them and the prosecutor or police unit break into the house no one has previously notified the communication media. Because it may be indecency to link Brussels's conference to the death of a child, while the same party prevents it from knowing exactly what has been paid for by the private funds of the State's exodus, money that comes from the butxacs of humble families, the accumulators, the autonomists, the entrepreneurs, the civil servants, the public money that we cannot know if they have been properly served or how much they have been spent for doubtful purposes that they are concerned about what matters to people and the real problems of the people. Because you can subsidize the Francisco Franco foundation and you can honor the Blue Division while the president of the Generality is accused of being Nazi for putting the ballot box. Because they can go to comfort and accompany convicts of state terrorism, but they cannot tolerate being accompanied by accusations of allowing a participatory, peaceful and exemplary process. They say that all this is legal, and they say that, as it is legal, it is democratic, and that 9-N, as they think it is not legal, is no longer democratic. With these criteria today fighting for conscientious objection would be undemocratic; defending the rights of homosexuals to adopt, too, and opposing the judicial denunciation of a family with creatures and without resources, perfectly legal, would be considered an act of pressure inadmissible to justice. That's why Spain's democracy is getting sick. Maybe they think they'll cure her with a copy of threats and intransigence; I think it's worse. This judgment will be judged by history as was the feeling against the State and as will the refusal to talk about what is going on between Catalonia and Spain, because things happen. Don't want to talk about it – don't want to talk about it – it's an erroneous and irresponsible decision because that's what we need to talk about. Dialogor volunteered to do so. If one is able to act as an interlocutor between Donald Trump and everything he represents, with America Llatina, Europe, North Africa and the Middle East, he should still be able to act as an interlocutor with Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Ladies and gentlemen, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, let's talk, Fly? Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.21.0	Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.22.0	Yes, we understand that, as the president said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.23.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.24.0	...opens shift.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.25.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.26.0	I wanted to know how much time we have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.27.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.28.0	...and the order of intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.29.0	The president has spoken for nine minutes. So, we'll make it proportional. If you want to start or who wants to start, you can do it from the escó... So, Mrs. Arrimadas, you want to be the first? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You're welcome. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah. If you want to come here, you can come, no problem. [[Pause.]] Two minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]] Madame Arrimadas, when she wants to. We'll do proportional time, that's to say, fem... when the government intervenes, it's proportional time, every time, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.30.0	No, but it's just... anyway. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.31.0	Is that it? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.32.0	No, it's not the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.33.0	Are they done yet?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.34.0	...it's a point of order, it's not a government intervention, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.35.0	I understand that when the government comes back, time is proportional to all groups. And I understand that all groups will want to intervene. What's wrong? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.36.0	Aim for democracy. Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, again today we have seen you talk about the only subject you are talking about. Is it unemployment? No! No! Is it corruption? No! No! Is Poverty? No! No! It's the monotheme of 9-N. Do you realize that he has been president for over a year and we have not heard him talk about anything other than this? [[Greetings.]] Do you realize that you will cease to be president and have not spoken of anything else? You're going to pass the warrant and you haven't talked about anything other than 9-N. You don't talk about other corruption trials. No, no, talk about this one. And I say more to him: I see them much braver speaking in Parliament than what their companions do in front of the judge. 'Cause there's a lot of breasts coming out here. [[applause]] saying that they disobeyed because the Constitutional Court is not competent, and then, before the judge: "Well, I didn't know, it was the volunteers... [[applause and voice remorse]] "The order did not come to me correctly... Man, you too have a little respect, even for the people who volunteered, organized by you. Or did the 9 - N pay for it by volunteers? Because I think we paid seven million and half Catalans, whether we agreed or not. And you talk a lot about the judicialization of politics. And he's right. I believe that when you come in bulk to present constitutional remedies to the Constitutional Court, I suppose that too will be to judicialize politics, or is it only when others do? And you're talking about the judicialization of politics, but I'm almost more concerned about the politicization of justice. You have been very comfortable all of democracy choosing judges, and now you are organizing demonstrations at the door to try to pressure them. You in the Constitutional Court have spent all democracy electing judges, and do you know why you no longer choose them? Not because they do not want to, but because they cannot, because they are in the Joint Group and no longer have the capacity to decide the judges. [[Greetings.]] You're very critical of the PP and the PSOE, but you've done the same now. They cover cases of corruption, fill their party's plug-in administrations, elect judges, Olympicly pass the problems of Catalans and the rest of Spaniards. That's what you've done in thirty-five years. They do the same, so don't make speeches that look different. And finally, with regard to democracy: there is no democracy where politicians have the privilege of jumping over democratic laws and justice. Does not exist [[applause]] I do not know what kind of anti-democratic country you are inspired in, but there is no democracy where you can do what you want. And I tell you more: you have been stretching gum for years, but it won't last you all your life, and Catalonia is going to be news again, but not because you want to skip the laws or because you want to declare independence, we are going to be news again for the innovation of our companies, for the opportunities of this land, for the solidarity of the people or for our historical and cultural heritage. We, in Catalonia, are going to be admired again in the rest of the world. And people are going to look back at Catalonia, not with concern, as they do now when they see you rule, but with admiration, as I should always have done..., you. I say to you: the period is going to end, we have reached the end of the cycle, these are the last fireworks, but I hope that in 2017 you will call for elections so that there will again be a government in Catalonia that thinks about Catalans, thinks about raising Catalonia and not separating us from the rest of Spain and the European Union. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Sir... [[Continue the applause]] Mr. Iceta. [[The applause continues.]] Mr. Iceta. I can intervene, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. The President's intervention has opened a turn and a debate that I believe is bound and, frankly, I would never have gone there, but I ask the President to be aware of this context that has occurred and to give us all the margin to produce the debate that the President wanted and to attend to the democratic demand of the chamber. If it took me time, I'd ask you a question of order to extend it a little longer. [[Rialles.]] But I would like to take advantage of this intervention to make clear and arrive at the chamber the position of our group with respect to the judgment that is being celebrated, which, in fact, is a spectacle that is not desired, without precedent and useless from the point of view that we most need to worry about, that is the solution of the conflict, of the problem, of the repte that we have between hands; put it to you the word that they want. Justice is always a failure of politics, a failure of some institutions – all those who have been unable to dialogue and agree and find solutions – but the failure of a government that, at a certain time, in my judgment in a very erroneous way, decided not to complete the resolutions of the Constitutional Court. And I must say to you – whether we like it or not – that the members of the former Government who feel they are being judged are not feeling it for their ideas, only because there are inadequate indications, resolutions, judgments, of the Constitutional Court. And, in effect, said the president, quite rightly: "There are no precedents to other European countries. But there are also countries in Europe where governments defuse resolutions, judgments or indications of their constitutional courts. And so..., finally, let's remember the concrete context: this is produced for the call of the 9-N consultation. Escotin, that consultation, according to the Government, was perfectly suited for the Law of popular consultations not referendums. They will remember that it is a law that our group voted for, warning at all times that it would not be useful to take the consultation that was already announced, because some, out of here, had already decided a date and a double question chained. Therefore, we can call, let us say, the authority that gave us support to a law, but at the same time say: "With this law you cannot do what you want to do. And we have said this on various occasions: who is outside the state of law cannot find in us neither understanding nor solidarity. Fix yourself – and the opposition leader has said – in the defense strategy. The defense strategy tells us: "We had no conscience or will to disobey. Well, we're not the ones to judge, it's the court that's gonna have to decide whether or not this is true and whether the facts are criminal or not. To us they correspond, president, and we take the repte that makes us..., you ask: "Let's push the dial. Are we for the dialog? You, who can dialogue, dialogue. We, who may want to dialogue, dialogue. Now, president, I've got the saying on a page – and perhaps you weren't aware of it – but our group in the past Ple proposed a motion calling for the activation of a whole series of bilateral negotiating mechanisms and you, the People's Group and the CUP, voted against it. Therefore, we will continue, and since we are in place, then, perhaps Congressman Ferran Pedret will re-plant the same young man, to see if we have better luck on another occasion. Maybe we don't have the democratic quality we want, President. And we are all well aware that the functioning of all our institutions is not to the excellence that we would like, nor here, when laws of disconnection are made out of the chamber, it is said that they are impregnable, but that, in case, they do not teach each other, it was not in case they were challenged. Now, this democratic quality, we would destroy it if we persist in an idea, and it is legitimate to press the courts and it is lawful to press and violate the state of law. I must remind you, President, that if what this chamber does or what the government does is not legal, it is simply not democratic. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.39.0	Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.40.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, it is surprising the procedure, actually, to start this debate, seemed more quickly the beginning of an electoral campaign. Maybe we're in this logic– maybe we're in this logic– [[I'll give you the applause.]] But welcome, if we do, we do. Miri, we... our position is known. We don't think it's just a big mistake, but it's on a road that doesn't come out of this dynamic of judicialization of a political conflict. We've always said that, and we've accompanied Mr. But to the audience. From this point of view, our position is inconfusible. Now, let's just say all the things. You see, we think that we have a conflict of political nature and that, therefore, we have to resolve 'politically', and that it is a weakness of the dialogue and of the policy that we arrive at a spectacular judgment of these characteristics. In this sense, we call for a return to politics. This judgment does not produce exactly because the right state works as an exact clock. This judgment is made simply because the Spanish Government has undertaken much for how the Lord But managed on November 9, simply for this, and probably because he did not complete a certain pact with the Government of Madrid, huh? , who asked him to manage 9-N with a certain discretion. Since he did not manage it with discretion, the Madrid government activated the judicial machinery. And now we find ourselves in a – forgiving the expression – great atzucac – in a great atzucac – because when determined dynamics are created after they have their own life, eh? Now explain to the judges that they have to moderate the management of the administration of justice, after, above all, when the corporatism point of the judiciary has also been activated. We think we need to get out of this, but, of course, we need to get out of this with truth and looking for the paths of politics and dialogue, not trying to use one dynamic to inflate another. Yesterday..., did not follow Mrs. Arrimadas, it was yesterday the company of the CUP that pointed out the contradiction of how the defense is being managed by the accused in this court, because, clearly, there was not an intervention, a statement style Fidel Castro: "History will absolve me; it was: "They did not tell us in good and in good form, we were not aware that we disobeyed. Listen, either it's disobedient or it's not disobedient, which can't be done... [[Greetings.]] And we call you people, forgive, with a certain..., modestly, but some of us have disobeyed, and when you disobey, you accept the consequences of disobedience. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] When we went to stop denominations, we accepted that we were as converging governments at the time as we were having a game of garrotations as many as we had many, and we did so with the hope of changing the state of public opinion and changing laws, but taking on the consequences of disobedience. What can't be done is to say: "We disobey, to get the parish in front of some elections, and before a court say: "Well, we didn't know very well. [[Give me the applause.]] Especially because later members of the Bureau of this Parliament will come who will not be able to say that they do not know, that there was no refusal to notify the Constitutional Court in good and proper form, eh? Thank you for your solidarity with those who come later. [[Greetings.]] We give them this very clearly: the same way that we are against justice, we are against the use of this conflict to prepare in a spurious way an electoral campaign from victimization and irresponsibility. The path is another and we have said it many times: we have to go and force the dialect, we have to build social majorities, and the path is that of a referendum, work for it patiently and decisively and with the time that anyone else, but not playing to entangle people, because you are finally talking... as I once said in a speech, you are talking about love and you are thinking about sex; you are talking about reference and disobedience, and you are thinking of autonomous elections; this is sad reality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.42.0	Mr President, when you were referring to indecent behaviors, to what you said was that money was being used..., that money was being used by Catalans and Spaniards for non-presentable purposes, when you are saying that presidents who are very honest are being persecuted, it seems to me that, when you are talking about all this, someone very important has been left behind, and it is Mr Pujol – Mr Pujol. That one did take the money from all the Catalans, and it seems to me that the evidence is putting it on the table. When you have done the writing of all the grievances that are being done in Catalonia, you have forgotten the expression that has been referenced and the founder of your party. I want to tell you that – and you know it perfectly well – in Spain no one is persecuted for putting ballot boxes or for ideas; in Spain it is those politicians who are judged to act outside the law; those politicians, like you and your fellow government, who think they are above good and evil. In such cases, when the rule of law is violated, it is when the rule of law works; slow, but it works. And using the excuse that the consequences were unknown and it was unknown that a decision of the Constitutional Court was being disobeyed shows that you, when you scream, when you organize street movements, are very brave, but when you have to sit in front of a judge that gallarity, that courage, seems to disappear little by little. Look, I'm tired of a story that you're using and that I've heard, that you're repeating it as a mantra over the last few days, over the last few weeks, to justify your arguments; to say: "It's that the People's Party organized a campaign to collect signatures against Catalonia. And that is unacceptable, and that meant a before and after for Catalan society. First, that the People's Party did not organize any campaign to collect signatures against Catalonia [[remorse of the voice]] – did not organize any campaign to collect signatures against Catalonia... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.43.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.44.0	Against, yes, certain articulations of a statue. But, Mr President and ladies and gentlemen of Convergence – of Union there is no longer, but of Convergence – if we were so bad, if we were so terrifying for Catalonia in 2007 with this collection of signatures, why in 2011 did they reach a government agreement with the People's Party, here in the Parliament of Catalonia? [[Greetings and soundings.]] If we were so bad, if we were so harmful to Catalonia, if we did so much damage, why did you come to an agreement, you, with the government of the People's Party of Catalonia, of governability, in the Parliament of Catalonia? I would therefore ask you for a little coherence. And, look, let you make reference to the fact that there is no dialogue on the part of the Spanish Government, that is a provocation, Mr Puigdemont. Here the only one who does not want dialogue, here the one who has phobia to dialogue is you. You're the monologue, you're the one who likes to go out here. [[some applause]] , to say, without anyone being able to..., without another government being able to debate with you and do its electoral number, which is what it has done today. But you dialogue is something that runs away, it is something you fear, and the consequences we will end up paying all Catalans. I ask you, Mr Puigdemont, on behalf of the People's Party – but I am sure that on behalf of many Catalans who are not of my political strength, who do not vote for the People's Party – who sit with the Government of Spain, who have the courage to be able to face a debate of ideas, which speaks of the model of health, of more investment in health, in education, in infrastructure, of the Law of Dependence. He feels that these issues are being discussed with the Government of Spain, which is being called upon to do so. What seems to me to be an enormous irresponsibility and totally unacceptable – and I am finalizing – is that it questions all these issues, which are basic for the vast majority of Catalans, to a single point that you know perfectly well that is impossible, that is that of the referendum, because in Catalonia no one, and you know perfectly, is going to call a referendum to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.45.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity, do you want to intervene? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.46.0	Well, many thanks; very, very briefly, because, more than that, we did not count on the intervention, but it is obvious that absolutely essential things have been said to be answered, not so much for the intervention that you did initially..., we seemed to reject that in the context of what is happening this week the President of the General could make a short position. We share a good part of what you have indicated, in other things we will surely keep some differences, but it seems to us much more relevancy and obliges us to answer some of the things that have been said on the part of other spokespersons. The one that you call the opposition leader, Mrs. Arrimadas, said that in a year you haven't heard of anything that doesn't follow the process. And we're worried; we're really worried about the listening ability that you can have. [[I'll give you the applause.]] Because we, who are not government and who are not together for the Yes, talk about many other issues beyond the process. We are concerned about the marginality and political winging in which you can fall if you really in this year have not heard anything more than about the process. We would invite you, now that you are reaffirming yourself to occupy this position of social democratic, liberal, progressive left, I don't know exactly..., to answer all the questions that you have on the table in this plenary and in the streets, and that, therefore, you begin to attend to what you really care about, in the context of citizenship, that you also have to see with independence, but not only. And it is that yes, we are at a time of political exceptionality, barely the weights and little they are listening to. And that's it. And the Socialist Party's gentlemen know it perfectly well, because the bailiff in '78 that you helped build is sinking. And yes, it really is a failure, the judicialization of politics. I guess that's why we didn't get to clarify who the LAG's lord ichs was, who hasn't even gotten to be judged yet. [[Some applause.]] The lords of the PP, who sit down to make a debate of the ideas... debate of the ideas, when they happen. I don't know with whom, in the State – I don't know with whom, in the State –; maybe we'll discuss the... "European? [[Rialles.]] We know that on November 9th what we had to do was not a participatory process; on November 9th we went to make a binding consultation, and we did not do it. And today's door to judgment is not the celebration of a consultation, it's the celebration of a participatory process, which still makes it harder, yet, because the State and the courts say it's not even possible to participate, it's no longer that they won't let us decide. As someone said, it wasn't that, comrades, it wasn't that; on November 9th we didn't go to a participatory process, we wanted to do something else. And so, now, looking forward, 2017, what we clearly want to do is a reference. We don't want to do another thing that's not a reference. And it's not gonna be cool, obviously. But when someone says "if you haven't legalized it, there's no democracy," "if you don't complete the law, you're not in a democratic framework, what do we have to tell the anti-Franco fighters? What was democratic, the Francoist state, because it was endowed with a legal order? [[Widow's remorse.]] Is that exactly what we're saying?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.47.0	Quiet, and please – quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.48.0	The State won't make a reference legal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.49.0	Respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.50.0	The State will not make a reference legal; therefore, the State is not democratic, according to your own plan. To the companies in Catalonia Yes, it is possible, with this slowness in relation to disobedience, we will have the opportunity to disobey in brief. Sure. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Manars and garrotades, surely; like the garrotades that we suffered when Initiative for Catalonia held the Conselleria d'Interior. [[Greetings.]] We will have the opportunity to disobey in brief, and we do not doubt that you will be at the expense of democracy, disobedience and, if necessary, garrote as many times as we have. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.51.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Mr. Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.52.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. We find the President's intervention very timely. [[Widow's remorse.]] And we find it opportune..., and we find it opportune because, if today there are three people, and especially one, and then we will refer to them, who are at the bench of defendants to be loyal to the warrants, to the multiple warrants of this Parliament of Catalonia, it would not be logical for us to look here as if we were playing. And that's why it's very timely the intervention that the president made and that we subscribe to in turn. And I, like Mrs. Anna Gabriel, also want to refer to some things that have been said here and that we can't go through. Miri, Mrs. Arrimadas, you obviously came out with the tape. We, unlike you, don't just talk about the weather, the autonomies, the economy... we talk and, above all, fem. And, more than that, we're leading all the positive data together in the Spanish state, for a lot of screen that you can try to scare the people of this country. We don't just talk, we do. This judgment that has taken place is an authentic shame. Someone said: "The dispute against Mas is a political and legal error. In the hypothetical case... that I don't think will happen because the lawsuit won't prosper, the defense of Mas can count on me as a witness. Who said that? José Montilla, representative of the Generalitat de Catalunya. [[Greetings.]] Who has seen them, Mr. Iceta, who has seen them and who sees them – who has seen them and who sees them –; from defending the consultation in Catalonia, to voting, like the president of the PSC, on 9 November, to making palm trees of all those people who are pursuing judicially those who defend democracy. [[Greetings.]] Who saw them... who saw them and who saw them. Mr. Rabell, I'd be worried about you, because lately who else is applauding Ciutadans. [[Rialles.]] I, of you, would do a reflection. Here you can talk about disobedience and make a thousand interpretations; here there is an expression, an ex-vicewoman and a counselor who are on the bench of the accused, not to disobey, to obey the people of Catalonia. This is the question that's being judged, and that's why we're being judged. [[Greetings.]] You appeal to the independence of justice, to respect for the independence of justice and to the state of law. Who's right in the Spanish State? The Spanish State is not a right state; the Spanish State... [[strong remorse of the eyes]] The Spanish State is a state...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.53.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.54.0	... which pulls for the right, which is very different; it is a state which pulls for the right; that justice does not have time to chase, to investigate, to judge Mr. Fernández Diaz and all his gang because he is busy chasing the ballot boxes. This isn't a straight state. This is a state that pulls for the right. It's a justice that's got prosecutors... it's a justice that's got prosecutors that tune in, and you know it all. And if opening an institute is a crime, why can people vote, why don't they go against all the mayors who opened municipal facilities so we can vote? Because they would definitely have been unmasked across Europe. To see what day they understand that this process, all this, does not have a name and a surname, does not have concrete acronyms; all this process that sees Catalonia has hundreds of thousands of names and surnames that are compromised. And that's what you don't want to hear. And they're talking about pushing justice. Press justice? People coming out on the street to defend the dignity of a country and its own dignity? People who defend their own dignity? Pressing justice is all these editorials that day and day are also asking for hard hand with the independenceists; all those who, yes, will then make them honorary commissioners of the Ministry of the Interior, all those who we for them know about quarrels and feelings. I, finally, one thing. Miri, Mr Albiol, I thank you for your intervention. If you don't have to say anything solid, but you want to go out on the news and on TV, say what you want, do whatever putxinel·lis you want, like you did the other day. At least today it has not had the indecency to use the victims of the greatest barbarism that has had the history of humanity to criticize the process that Catalonia sees. I thank you for not having this indecency here today. [[Greetings.]] I appreciate it. And finally just say: I, of you, really, would start to prepare the no campaign, because things [[remorse of the voice]] As those who are going through..., the week, things like those that are going through this week, together for the Yes they ratify us because the reference or the reference is done or done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. The second point of the order of the day is: ask the government. [[Ask the Government about strategic stakes in territorial policy]] [[310-00164/11]] First question to the Government, on the strategic stakes in territorial politics, formulated for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Lord Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.56.0	All right, thank you, President. Councillor Rull, as is widely known the deployment of the territorial policy embodied in the still in force law of 83 May was one of the priorities of the Pujolian governments. So, in the period that most of the territories we've transformed and engineered along history, we've done it without proper territorial planning instruments, and that we've most likely learned many of the mistakes, impacts, incongruous conflicts, and 3 percent that we've been patenting. The partial territorial plans, which were not approved until the year 2010, with twenty-seven years of delay, are to be launched, since the paradigm under which they had been made had already completely changed when they were approved. And in this new context the recent governments of Convergence and Union, and now Together for the Yes, in accounts of taking advantage of the maturity of territorial transformations in order to rethink the territorial policy and adapt it to the new paradigm, you opt for a liberalisation of the hidden only, through modification of the Law of Urbanism. So, the year 2012, with the bus law, they changed the 40_per_cent of the articles of the Law of Urbanism, a manipulation of the law that gave major protagonistism to the figure of the urban planning directors, to which it is now allowed to modify both the urban planning of the municipalities as well as the planning established for the territorial plans, is to say, to make planning to the letter, to the liking of the spavilatas of turn, and always with the Incasól for the middle of the farm corridor. Now, the bet to make territorial politics through a decree approving urban master plans is challenged by the different social movements and in defense of the territory. Just a few examples. The new industrial forecast of the Pla urbanistic director of the circuit of Catalonia when the country, according to its own textual words, has a 70_percent of the vacant industrial soil, has been denounced in a contention administered before the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. The hope of Barcelona World, failed according to the initial forecasts of building six casino complexes and which can now reach the cost of 110_million euros of public rescue of a toxic land of the « La Caixa, is challenged for the platform« Aturem Barcelona World, which will usually also present an administrative content. Or the stake to artificialize even more the banks of the Llobregat with the PDU Granvia-Llobregat, to which venenal ecological entities and political parties have presented more than a thousand allegations opposing there than it counts with the favorable report of the AMB. We can say without a mistake that its territorial policy is challenged in its totality, it is a flawed one, it goes against all the logic of territorial planning, against the interests of the majority of the population and against the principles of equity, respect for the environment and territorial balance. At the gates of the building's incisor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.57.0	Mr. Saladié, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.58.0	...of a republic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.59.0	I know it's hard, but we're gonna have to be tight in time today. [[You're saying, "Now, yes!]] I'm sorry, before everyone else could say... and he had it all the time. So, I mean, we've given up time before, and so now they're tight, yeah. [[Relieving of sight and laughter. Sergi Saladié and Gil keep talking without using the microphone.]] Mr. Saladié, I pray you, that time is running out; thank you. Please. [[Pause.]] Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.60.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Sir, we strongly disagree with your analysis and your plantation. You know exactly how we are guiding things, because, in fact, you were the protagonist of a subsequent young man, who focused his attention on the new law of the territory. This is a strategic bet that we do, not like the government, but we want to make with the country. It is a law that you ask us to carry it immediately, ignoring that there is a processing, from a point of view administered, in the Government, but above all from a point of view of participation. The Law of Urbanism of the year 2002 was a law conceived from a one-size-fits-all view, it was a law that in many aspects did not solve the needs of the country. I give you a very clear example: it is a law that does not distinguish between a large municipality and a small municipality. The first municipality to have an orderly plan, a POUM, was Terrassa, 215,000 inhabitants. The Law of Urbanism lays down the same reserve for protected housing in a municipality with Terrassa – 200,000 inhabitants – or in a municipality of 500 inhabitants; this does not have any meaning. And, therefore, we now want to make a change of layout, from an urban extension to an urban recycling system. This is a line we think is appropriate, it was accompanied by what is the new urban agenda that was approved in Quito. But, according to the theme, the theme of urban master plans: they are a great opportunity. You cannot repeat – with all cordiality – that urban master plans run counter to the forecasts of partial territorial plans. Simply, it's not true; with all roundness, it's not true. But we, at these times, the government of Junts per el Si has a very clear idea, that is that the urban master plans always agree with the assemblies. We will never push a plan urbanist director against the will of the territory expressed for the assemblies. That had happened before. We do have urban planning directors, e.g. those of the ARE, the strategic residential areas, planted against the will of many gatherings. We won't do this anymore. All the urban master plans that are being promoted by the Government of Catalonia, the Government, today, have the unanimous consent of the assemblies, of the local world. That's how things work. We're not going to make a Jacobic settlement, but we're going to make a plan to give the territories opportunities to create jobs. This is our priority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.61.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the missing information about the courts working in Catalonia]] [[310-00168/11]] According to the question to the Government, about the information provided about the courts working in Catalonia. The question is posed by Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.62.0	Thank you, President. Let's talk about democratic quality and justice again. Counselor, a few days ago we knew the statements of Judge Santiago Vidal and, at that time, Senator of the Republican Left, in the march of conferences throughout the territory on the elaboration of lists of judgments according to his political ideology more or less close to independence. According to these statements, this affinity would mark the possibility that you can continue to exercise as judges in an independent Catalonia or replace them. What is your opinion, with the Councillor of Justice, respecting these statements?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.63.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.64.0	Thank you very much, President. Good morning. The government has already explained enough that it disapproves of any statement regarding lists of people. And, in fact, you're so interested in talking about lists... I have to explain to him that the only list we know of judgments that has been made is the list that made a newspaper published in Madrid that assigns thirty-three judgments to think how they think. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, if you are so interested in the lists of trials, report this situation: thirty-three trials that are appointed to think as they think, an examination that has not been pursued for justice; in fact, it has been filed for justice, and has refused to investigate how it is possible that the photos of these thirty-three trials have come out of the National Police DNI database. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for Mrs. Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.66.0	Thank you. Well, we've asked him a very concrete question, counselor; we see he pulls pilots out. In fact, this government strives to discredit Mr. Santiago Vidal and denies any connection between his demonstrations and the government's plans. But the point is, Counselor, that 2015, is to say, until recently, Mr. Vidal had been stationed at the Centre d'Etudes Juridiques et Formation Spécialissée, of the Generalitat de Catalunya. And the truth is that from there he designed part of the White Paper on Justice, as the director of the Programme for the study of institutions in the field of Justice Administration and the judiciary. And the truth is also that 2015 Mr. Vidal, in an interview, already stated that he had begun to look for courts to replace those who would march, concretely two-hundred_fifty, is said, and that interviews with possible substitute courts are done in the same official office as Mr. Vidal. We are not saying that it is vague to make lists in a diary, but a concrete interview of a gentleman who had a depatx in an official entity, in an organization of the Government of Catalonia. How do you want us to think of him, Counselor? As we believe, before the evidence, that this government has not thought to do justice only for a few? Is this the democratic, democratic and right-wing state that this government wants to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.67.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.68.0	It's clear to you that he cares about a rave that I answer when he asks me a question. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] You ask me whether I agree with Mr. Vidal's statements, and I have clearly answered that the Government absolutely disagrees with those statements. And you, as the answer does not please him, keep talking to me about the opinions of a person who was linked four_months to the Department of Justice, when I was not a counselor, and therefore I cannot explain to him exactly what he was dedicated to. But I assure you: in four months you're in the department, you didn't do a white book or do as many things as you attribute or you attribute yourself. Therefore, I make it clear that the government acts scrupulously with respect for the law and with respect for all people... And, in any case, present 'un jutge' who was asked about his ideology. In any case, I can remind you: thirty-three courts are appointed to think how they think; and from here you, who assume to always talk about what interests people and come to this room with a point of moral superiority tell us that we only talk about [[remorse of the voice]] ...tell us that we only talk about the same, take advantage of... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.69.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.70.0	...take advantage of the government's control time to talk about things they don't have to do with the government. Thank you. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.71.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the conflicts and incompliments of the Spanish Government in the field of education]] [[310-00169/11]] Third question to the Government, on conflicts and incompliments... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Third question to the Government, on the conflicts and incompliments of the Spanish Government in the field of education. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Cuminal, from Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. He will advise, as we have seen, a part of this chamber gives support to policies that go against Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'll say it again; I'm sure they can react a little better and more politely. A part of this camra defense politiques that go against Catalonia. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Some very clear examples are the persecution of freedom of expression or some basic fundamental rights, the judicialization of politics, the politicization of justice, the diplomacy of the boycott, the brutal police war; but there are also examples of government failures, the invasion of competitions, the non-payment of scholarships to school and university students, and there are also some areas, such as finance, infrastructure, language and culture, etc. He will advise, in terms of teaching, what we want to know is what is the capture of the Government of Catalonia before the policies against Catalonia made by the Spanish State. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.73.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.74.0	Thank you, President. Member of the Commission. - Mr President, we are not filling pages of the Spanish State's shortcomings in the field of education. The president said this before: we have more than thirty incomplete sentences that affect people's lives, and someone in this Parliament likes to say that Spain is judged by those who go against or who act on the margins of the law. This happens, less when acting outside the law is the Spanish State, which carries thirty-four sentences of the Constitutional Court. There is no precedent in the field of education, the number of resources and the number of contested regulations that the Generality has: decrees of primary, secondary, the decree providing for places of work, and even decrees of creation of form cycles that are only made in Catalonia, because we are very interested in the professional formation, such as the decree of technique in the treatment of needles, decree of sport teachings, resolution of pre-registration, the standards of organization and functioning of educational centers, the name of competitions violated... There are people in this group who still do not know that the LOMCE alters the constitutional order that they defend and the distribution of competitions, and so on, or at least today, "dialeg. What do we do about the Catalan government? Follow the Catalan Education Law and apply it, because it is the guarantee of the Catalan school, because it is an inclusive and non-segregative law, because it is a law that enhances professional training and does not threaten it. On the other hand, the Government of the State does not want to listen to our political arguments, or just the pedagogics. We put them on the table. LOMCE does not take into account the recommendations of the European Union on competence learning, centre autonomy and trust in centres, or a system that enhances excellence and equity. The European Union's recommendation is from 2006; they're eleven years late, and they don't want to listen to us. And that's why we're talking about a country that's good, because of the continued loss of the Spanish government, which affects – yes, it affects – people's lives, said the president: the scholarships, the poor energy, the right to housing. That's why we'll go on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.75.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Cuminal, do you want to use the word? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Ask the Government about the reception of refugees]] [[310-00170/11]] The fourth question is about the reception of refugees. The question is posed by Ms. Adriana Delgado of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.76.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Well, as we've done on other occasions in this chamber, today we're going back to talking about the humanitarian crisis of refugees, the tragedy of thousands and thousands of people in the world fleeing violence and repression, people looking for a space to live with security and dignity, without being persecuted and with guaranteed rights. On the other hand, these people risk their lives to survive and get together in refugee camps, and live in unworthy conditions; some images that make us come to the top barbarisms of past times that do not seem so long ago. In the face of the immobility of the governments of the Member States of the European Union, among them the Spanish, the Government of the Generality and the Parliament have shown willingness to join together and have worked to make it effective with concrete measures. The civil society has also organized itself, as for example with the campaign« Our house, your house, which, among other acts, organizes this concert at Palau Sant Jordi and a demonstration on the 18th in Barcelona, which must be massive. It is the political and civil reactions before the rigid management of refugees by the states. The state asylum problem, which covers the basic needs of refugees, is a centralized, restricted and bureaucratic system, as we have reported on other occasions. Since March, more than that, some of these refugees will already be out of the program, which in addition does not assess the results and will not have assumed sufficient personal autonomy, so that they will have difficult problems to obtain resources, such as work and housing, to have better integration into society. Catalonia, home country, yes, we are demonstrating it, but also land of exile, let us remember it, calling on memory, both institutions and civil society, as every one of us, we must compromise ourselves with the attention of these people: it is our legal duty, but above all human. And we have to work for a society of free people, compromises with human rights, at our home and in the world. One of the government's responses before this situation was the creation of a similar docking plan, which was presented a few days ago. Counselor Bassa, what's going on in this sense? Who are the objectives of the program and how will it develop? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.77.0	Thank you, Mrs. Delgado. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.78.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. As you very well said, the State has not had any petitions. I want to remind you that during this year, and from the very beginning, the Government of the Generalitat we wanted to work because there is a good host of refugees in our country. From the outset, a committee of people we were studying, between entities and government, the situation of refugees, on March the same president sends a letter to the European Commissioner with our compromise and the compromise of this Parliament to gather 4,500 refugees in a principle. Therefore, we have worked in resources, we have asked the Government to open the door to 270 people from refugee camps, chosen by Catalan entities who are there for co-operators, for the sake of salvation, that we could give them welcome here. We have made proposals, and many cooperation has been working in the countries around refugee camps, and these have been attended to. Therefore, we have been working all year to make a proper programme, a programme of refuges for various reasons: for compromises of a democratic country, to cover the shortcomings, which you have said very well, of the plan of accelerated state while, but also because it is a plan as close as the country, and because we have legal basis to do so, because the legal framework we say..., said sentiments in favor of having the whole framework to collide in our country. Therefore, let us also deploy the International Protection Plate. What is this plan? A full collaboration of the citizenry, civil society and the local world, in a situation of good practices, good practices that have taken place in other countries. Therefore, a mentor training situation that accompanies these people. We'll start with the ones coming out of the state docking plan to make a pilot plan. We had 500 mentors and I can tell you that at this time we already have 1,270 mentors who are committed to training, who are committed to four hours, being on the side of refugees. The government is committed to an economic benefit. Therefore, entities on the side, a deal among all: government, entities and local world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.79.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the failure of the State to comply with university scholarships]] [[310-00171/11]] Five questions to the Government on the failure of the State to comply with university scholarships. The question is posed by Ms. Natàlia Figueras, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.80.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the Spanish Government continues to fail to comply with the rulings of the Constitutional Court, for which the management of the scholarships should be transferred to Catalonia. A transplant that continues to go on since 1994. The rulings of the Constitutional Court give Catalonia the right. The first, the year 2001, in relation to the conflicts arising from the Royal Decree of 83, of which the State regulated the system of scholarships and other aids to the study of the personalized character; the following sentences of 25 of 2015 and 95/2016, in which, the latter, in which it was stated that the Generality would have to manage the distribution of the variable quantity – that is, we would have to manage the scholarships – and even went a step further stating that, given the time elapsed, the maintenance of this transitional and exceptional regime is difficult to reconcile with the requirements of a decentralized state, such as Spanish. These events involve a charge to a specific scholarship policy on the part of the Generality, and to constant criticism on the part of many political groups in this Parliament in relation to scholarships. The fact of not having or not having this transfer is a burden for university students, and, above all, for those that the ministry leaves without help in the subjects for academic reasons. Despite these incompliments, the Generalitat makes an over-exercise. And, for all this, I would ask you, counselor, who explained to us in what matters..., and who are the consequences for our students and our universities of the repeated incompliments of the sentences of the Constitutional Court for the transfer of scholarships to Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.81.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Figueras. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Congresswoman, you're absolutely right. Here, for these groups that are so concerned about the citizenship of these countries, that it is clear that the repeated failure of the State to complete the constitutional jurisprudence in the matter of the transfer of scholarships makes the families of this country, and that many families of this country, especially those most in need, suffer and suffer badly. I say this because the effects of the failure of certain feelings, we have to assume them every time with more effort. Miri, if the State transfers the share of resources that it allocates to scholarships to Catalonia or that we have to allocate to scholarships to Catalonia, only for the share of scholarships or scholarships in general, we would have more..., as a minimum, because it is between 50 and 80 million additional resources, that we could allocate here to make a policy of scholarships fairer, more suited to the social reality of this country and we could have much more resources to finance the price and access to the university of all the students and students of this country. That's it. The fact that the judgment speaks of ‘difficultly conciliable, behind this ‘difficultly conciliable' is not a discussion between constitutionalists or non-constitutionalists, or between administrative lawyers or not. After this "difficultly conciliable there are families. There are families that, if we had competition, we could have faster, faster, faster, more expeditious and more resources, resources that are generated with their taxes and that, because of the failure of the State's judgments, of the Constitutional Court on behalf of the State in the matter of university, we do not have them. I'll put a given: the number of students that Catalonia has on the global state board is almost 16_per_cent. The number of students awarded scholarships is 11 and mig per cent. And you know why? Because the conditions attached to the State in terms of income have nothing to do with the needs and the cost of living in that country. If that were the case, Catalonia could have more than seven thousand students who are now in paid scholarships.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.83.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions planned before the announcement of the March of Ercros de Flix]] [[310-00167/11]] Sisena asks the Government, about the actions planned before the announcement of the March of Ercros de Flix. Asks the question Mrs Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.84.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the 31st generation Ercros announced the expansion of the chlorine plant in Vila-seca, changing the mercury technology for membrane to comply with the European Directive. And that meant the already defined lock, announced since the 2012 ERO, at the end of 2017 of the Flix plant of the Ribera d'Ebre, which affects a hundred and twenty workers, more or less, if we count direct and indirect. But at the Flix plant, more than the production of chlorine, there is also since 2014 a line of production of bicalcium phosphate, which is operated by Iberic Timab – well, now Phosphea, is a French subsidiary – and which works in maquila regime for Ercros, but this plant depends, to produce the bicalcium phosphate, of residual hydrochloric acid and that comes to a cheap price. So, my questions, counselor, they're diverse. The first: does the government know if it will continue to secure the production line of bicalcium phosphate to Flix? Two: does the government know what commitments it is willing to acquire Ercros because it continues the production of phosphate with regard to the whole issue of residual hydrochloric acid? Three: Is its Directorate General of Industry performing any mediation or facilitation between Ercros and Covestro? Speaking of Covestro, we've had some appearances here... because Covestro announced a hydrochloric acid hub at the Tarragona complex, and so here's a glimmer of this problem. And four: when did you foresee, your Directorate General of Industry, making the meeting announced for November between the Directorate General of Industry and the company Timab Iberica to really know whether or not the production of bicalc phosphate continues? Because, counselor, that's what Flix's desertion at the industrial level is about, and we think it's a region that we'd stay... well, twenty-three thousand inhabitants, that would end up feeling like a region with a nuclear one. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.85.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.86.0	Yes; thank you, honourable Member. As you said, at the Ercros complex, at Flix, there are about 110 workers: 65 are producing chlorine and 45 are working maquila for the Timab company to make bical phosphate. What do they do? This bicalcic phosphate, from what? I tried the Covestro plant. The hydrochloric acid from the Covestro plant that has Tarragona, is passed to Flix and, from here, this production is done. So, to their four questions I answer them all in the affirmative. We've talked to Timab, we've talked to Covestro, we're negotiating with Ercros and Covestro and we're looking for all those solutions that allow us to make it possible to ensure the continuity of these workers in this production plant of bical phosphate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.87.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.88.0	In 30 seconds, I'm so glad they talked to them. So, you can guarantee us that the bical phosphate plant will continue to Flix, and so..., and that..., since you have answered everything you have, I take advantage of it and ask you another question: how do I know that there are meetings for Flix's reindustrialization themes, that they meet every two months with the consultant, the assembly, etc., if we have any news or we can announce some new industrial implantation in Flix, and... well, it benefits the whole region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.89.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.90.0	From the government we are doing everything possible to ensure that these forty-five places of work continue in the future, and we are doing it from all areas: from the industrial sphere, trying to have Covestro reposition certain decisions taken so that they can carry the hydrochloric acid to Flix; we are also doing it with other departments of the generality, so that the continuity of this production can be made. Because the continuity of this production is feasible, it is not only because of the price of hydrochloric acid, but also because there is gas or no gas, or because there are taxes that are paid or that are for use, for example, water or with residues. We're working on it, and the government's will is to make sure that this occupation is maintained. For the second question, yes, we are working. We're working with the government and the company in charge of looking for business projects so that there is one. It's true that sometimes we have more difficulties... there are possibilities. Sometimes we have more difficulties than expected. For example, there was a reversal project in electric drums that..., after all the support that the Spanish government wants to give to the electric car, which is nil, and with all the obstacles, this obviously also damages the implementation of certain deployments and certain negotiations in the Ebre River.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.91.0	Counselor, you've run out of time. [[Ask the Government about fiscal policy]] [[310-00165/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on fiscal policy. The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.92.0	Thank you, President. Mr Junqueras, we have all heard Mr Vidal's statements about what you have done with the data of all Catalans, can you say today, in the parliamentary seat, that Mr Vidal is lying? Yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.93.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.94.0	Thank you, President. Mr De Paramo, we have explained to each other many times. It's a pleasure to have the opportunity to tell him again that our job is a job that consists of doing everything we have to do and doing it as accurately as possible. I am convinced that what I have answered is perfectly understood. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.95.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.96.0	How little it costs to answer a question with 'yes or 'no'. Artur Mas : «There are things that, not being a lie, you have to explain in another way. Mr Junqueras, yourself: "Mr Vidal has explained himself very badly. You have had time to deny Mr. Vidal, because these revelations he has been doing for three months, at eleven conferences open to the public, in municipal spaces, on television and on social networks. And I ask: Did none of yours raise his hand in one of those lectures and say: "Listen, Mr. Vidal is lying? No one? If Mr Vidal has been in 11 public lectures for three months accusing them of this crime, did no one from the government say: "We are going to denounce Mr Vidal, who is lying? Is it not that Mr. Vidal, between lying and lying, has escaped any truth? You have become accustomed to double play, because you say you disobey the Constitutional Court, but then you say you didn't know you were disobeying. They say we're going to be independent, but then they tell investors that the FLA is guaranteed. You go as revolutionaries, but then you don't dare face the Parliament when one of your party mates leaves the language. Be brave. Be brave and say..., as they say in their acts of Esquerra, say also in parliamentary office. Be brave. Try to answer me with 'yes' or 'no'. He didn't do it on the first question. I am going to try: Are you going to send letters to businesses and citizens to pay their taxes to the Catalan agency? Are you going to do it, as Mr. Vidal said? What are they going to do with those who do not follow their game and want to continue to comply with the law? What are they going to do with them? Will they also put pressure on them as they do with officials and as they do with judges? Look, playing spies with everyone's data, pressing officials, pressing judges, sieges for corruption, 3 percent, Palau, corruption, corruption, corruption and corruption. Yeah. They're doing all that now. What will you not do in your tailor - made Catalan republic, with all that you are already doing? Look, the good thing about all this is that you've finally seen the plumer. And today, with the interventions they have had, I have seen them suffer – really, I tell you – to explain all the things that are inexplicable. Time is running out for you, and what you deny today and what you deny today, you also denied it with Banca Catalana, you also denied it with 3 percent; but in the end the truth always comes, and in a few months we will know it too. What will you do, Mr. Junqueras...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.97.0	Sir De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.98.0	...when we know the truth of Mr. Vidal?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.99.0	...has run out of time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Reply by the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.100.0	Thank you, President. Mr. De Paramo, I'm glad you're worried about whether or not we've suffered, but you didn't get it right, or you didn't see it well, because, in any case, of patience, I don't seem to think of people. It has made an extraordinary, and so extraordinary and so exaggerated, barrage that, then, it is very easy to answer. And I hope you'll accept that I give you the answers that you think are appropriate and not that you want me to dictate them to you. And me, with the Catalan Bank case? But what... but what do you say? [[Rialles and some applause.]] But... where are we going? Or what? What are you doing here? - And it's very respectable, huh? I want you all to sweep whatever you want. Our position is very clear, and we explain it, and it's a pleasure to explain it again here. We do a very well done, very rigorous job of deploying the tax agency, both for what it does to the name of staff and for the number of offices. We have opened a new office, which you know will cover the area of Barcelona north, of the Barcelonès north, Badalona, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Sant Adrià del Besòs. We won't open fourteen more until September 1st. In addition, let's deploy a whole new computer program, which is e-SPRIU, which is a program that is able to manage mass taxes, periodic taxes, taxes that affect large censuses. I think you wouldn't be happy, that's why, if I didn't look at you with this ideological apriorism that everything seemed very bad to you, everything that we do, if I looked at you from a perspective of citizenship, of contributions, you would have to be satisfied with it. Because that, precisely, is what helps us to keep the fraud up, for example, by EUR 170_million. He's not happy, is he? That you're not satisfied that we're doing this job and that you're doing it much better than you are? So... listen, and if the others did it much better, we'd celebrate it; we wouldn't be delighted. Because we want to put the best instruments, the best tools, the best professionals in the service of the citizenry of this country. Or is it that you are implying that the workers, the people who are linked to this tax agency do something wrong? For God's sake, of course not, of course they don't make it bad. On the contrary, I insist, we do everything we have to do, we do it as we have to, and we guarantee that we will continue to do it in the future, everything we have to do. And these apocalyptic accounts that please them so much to explain fit very little to reality, let's say it – among other things, because the apocalyptic was written much after Jesus' life – so, listen, the apocalyptic is not there and will not be there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.101.0	Vice-President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.102.0	And we'll do the job well done...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.103.0	Vice President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.104.0	...and as he plays... [[The president withdraws the use of the microphone to the vice president and the vice president continues to speak for a few moments. Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.105.0	Next question to the government... [[Ask the Government about the situation of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia]] [[310-00166/11]] ...on the situation of the Administration of Justice. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Councillor Mundó, President Puigdemont, on 28 September this year, in the debate on the question of trust, talking about the work being done by his Government on disconnection, said that hundreds of concrete measures were being worked on in the field of justice, in its field, and that the work would be presented at the politically opportune time. That, the president. Carles Viver i Pi-Sunyer, who, as you know, works in a dark office, but charges the same as you and we don't know very well what you do, said: "It would be suicide to explain the work the Generalitat is doing to start independence; it would be suicide. And you, this August, at the Catalan University of Estiu, said: "The Government is working to articulate the necessary mechanisms because at the time of disconnection the services can work. And you said: "It would be unwise to explain what is being done, because this would only increase the judicialization of the State, etc.. There will be something when you think that, if you speak, the judges will intervene. That's what you say, not us. Look, you can see that Mr...., Judge Vidal has been unwise, or has committed political suicide, or has spoken at an inappropriate time politically, but he has said that there are eight hundred_one judges who know what you share, if you share their dreams and ideals – they have done a field job –, they know who will open the courts the next day, they have spoken to lawyers to replace the... I tell you: he has not clarified it. You said: « Others make lists. I said to him, I ask him, Is it true what Mr. Vidal says or is lying? Yes or no? As Mr Junqueras has said, that he has not answered, you do so; you answer, Mr Junqueras has not done so. And if these are not the jobs that you are doing, what jobs are you doing?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.107.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.108.0	So, on the third opportunity they have to intervene in this chamber, you're going back to exhibiting those themes that interest people. One more time. [[applause]] insisting on what they already know. They know exactly what the position is in relation to what Mr. Vidal has explained. Lord Vidal does not represent the Government or express the views of the Government, and therefore those expressions of Lord Vidal will be the Lord Vidal who has to clarify them. What the government does and what the Department of Justice does is do the job well done and put the administration of justice to work; some debts that are pending decades ago, some debts that compromise us all. And, therefore, we will continue to work on explaining things. And, of course, any opportunity, any expression, serves to tell us what we have not said, neither thought nor faith. And keep talking about lists as if that were true. You can repeat it a thousand times, but I'm going back to say it, in case you haven't made it clear: the only list of judgments we've seen in Catalonia is the one that made a diary published in Madrid pointing out thirty-three judgments to think how they think, and publishing photos from the National Police DNI database. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.109.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.110.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Mundó, you are a photophobic government, you have phobia to light, to clarity [[remorse of the voice]] , to transparency. You don't explain anything ever. What is happening in Catalonia is unheard of. You didn't want to go to some opposition, you want to continue with the interim staff for the administration of justice because you don't want people coming from outside. You're trying to do an administration of justice to your measure, Mr. Mundó, and you do it surreptitiously, you do it hidden. And that, Mr. Mundó, we can't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.111.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.112.0	...to consent. Deny it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.113.0	...has run out of time. Counselor responds. [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.114.0	Excuse me. [[Rialles.]] Excuse me, President. You already see that it's good that you repeat a lie a thousand times you must think that it turns it into truth. So, I'm sorry: a repeated lie a thousand times is a thousand times lied. If you are so concerned about what happens to the Administration of Justice in Catalonia and believe that you need to move forward in helping to take off some justices, help us make it possible. For example, do you know that since the year 2010 is not created a single jutjat in Catalonia? Do you know? Do you know who you have today's obligation to create jutjats? It's the Ministry of Justice. In Catalonia we have two courts and a half for every hundred and thousand inhabitants, when the middle of the State is eleven courts and a half. Only if we were located in the middle of the Spanish state's courts, only Catalonia had eleven courts and a half for every hundred and a thousand inhabitants, we would have seventy courts more in Catalonia, which sense of doubt would greatly contribute to the possibility of decongestion of courts. This is what really interests people, that the Fairness Administration works; not that they take advantage of this Parliament as if it were the Comedy Club to make advertising spots insisting on things that know perfectly well that they are lied to. Present'mun_sol judges who has been asked what he thinks or who is his political opinion on what is happening in Catalonia; present me 'nún_de_sol. I can't present thirty-three that have been checked in a newspaper to think how they think. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.115.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Catalan tax data held by the Generalitat]] [[310-00172/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the tax data of Catalans held by the Generalitat. The question is posed by Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.116.0	Thank you, President. According to Mr Santi Vidal, the Generality has illegally collected tax data from Catalans. You refused to contradict him, and you just said it didn't explain it well. It must be contagious, because it is obvious that you are not today either; but we do not lose hope. Did Mr. Vidal tell the truth or not? He answered yes or no, since he was so pleased with the references. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.117.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.118.0	I like you as much as you did for NATO, for the European Constitution, for the Statute of Autonomy, for the Spanish Constitution; therefore, more or less – more or less – as you do. By the way, today I see that originality doesn't shine... because of your presence, let's just say it, huh? And they all ask the same question. And I appreciate it another time, 'cause it's a pleasure to be able to get them back to explaining exactly what we're doing, huh? You want me to dictate the answer and my answer must be a response characterized by a certain rigor. What's the job we're doing? The job we do is to deploy these offices, one that we have already deployed, which is attached to those that we already have, fourteen more that will be deployed before September 1, plus all those that are shared with other administrations that also have tax responsibilities, and you agree with those administrations with which we will not have a shared office, but making use of those offices that already exist with us will allow for a total of 168 points of citizen attention. So, is he good or isn't he good? Yeah, he's good. So, what are we gonna do? Keep working. And while you're at it, you can go on with your monotheme.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.119.0	The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.120.0	Thank you, President. The smile revolution is over. The lords, in the last few days, Vidal and Artur have already explained, they have confessed, the Catalonia that they are drawing. You know, some of them. It is a Catalonia where the rulers, you, are not under the law because they say that the people have voted for them; in change, individuals are not only under the law, but can be part of lists of good and bad people and, in addition, they can see their personal data being violated. It's the definition of a police state's manual, this is its own state; it's not Catalan, it's police state's own property. Obviously, in order to make a total political operation of this magnitude to the civilised Europe of the 21st century someone special, could not enter it any, they needed to file in Santiago Vidal, suspicious the year 2015 for the General Council of the Judiciary for heavy irregularities – suspended that obviously, obviously, you qualified immediately to attack democracy. You introduced him as a drum and platter fitting. I quote: "As a great constitutional architect, "expert visionaries, "great intellectual català; and in one of his conferences they even said: "The most of all of us. [[Rialles.]] I highlight this because, according to that presenter, the second most recent was you, don't lose it. [[Rialles.]] Now they deny it – now they deny it – they say he's a megalomaniac, but they've had him bowling, touring, giving him all the thanks during the months, and the thing doesn't have any thanks, it's very serious. The Attorney General of the State has opened an investigation into possible violations of citizens' rights; the Attorney General of Catalonia has opened pre-trial proceedings for possible commission of various criminal acts, and you simply continue to say that it has been poorly explained. In short, did Mr. Santiago Vidal tell the truth or not? You answer by dignity, this dignity that they so much claim for you but deny it to millions of Catalans only because they are not separatists. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.122.0	Well, I'm bound to, as a personal character reference, if it was produced in those terms, to absolutely deny it, huh? If someone said that I was the second most read, it's obvious that it was wrong, it's obvious, because there are many here that are much more read than I, obviously, you among them, let's say it, right? [[Greetings.]] So, listen, we explained to you, if you want to explain it again, I'm sure we'll have a chance to reexplain it again, because you'll do us the favor of getting back to it, and it was absolutely indifferent to what we're explaining to you. So, listen, you think the smile revolution is over, I don't know. In my case, I don't know if it's a revolution or not, but it's a certain laugh a little frank, honest and it wants to be nice. Listen, I've asked you so many times, we'll explain. We have done it again and again, we already have a few questions about this issue, we will also do it the week that you and we will again explain all the work we do, the good work that we are doing, that is good for everyone, also for you, because having a good tax agency is a good thing to guarantee the public services of our country, to boost economic growth, to redistribute income, to make a fairer society, a more effective society, and that is what we do every day, and every time we ask ourselves, we will take advantage to explain it again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.123.0	He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the measures planned by the Government to face the challenge of the gathering of refugees and the defence of human rights]] [[317-00111/11]] The question is posed by Mr Carles Riera, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.124.0	Thank you, President. President, in our world the walls proliferate, not for merchandise or for financing capital, which freely camp in the mark of globalisation, but for people, badly. Capitalism generates inequality and the economic and military potentials generate extractive wars and still build walls to prevent victims from escaping; walls at the border between the United States and Mexico, in Calais, far from the Mediterranean, to the Turkish border, between others. The European Union has failed in its utopias of collide territories and participates in the construction or legitimization of these walls while not engulfing hints of racism and xenophobia. President, as your government still does, both for what it does to its external politics and alliances and for what it does to its policies of gathering and including economic immigrants and refugees? Is unilaterality and, if scale, even disobedience so as to overcome the Spanish State's regressive sense of doubt policies in these matters?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.125.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.126.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, indeed, we are of those who rejoiced when the Berlin Wall fell, and we are glad that all these walls that you have appointed, which you have rightly appointed, fall, are preventing people from having a right to a basic right, which is the right to life and to have the opportunity to make their life and professional project possible. How do we face this challenge? As Councillor Bassa has already explained, as this Government has already believed, and as we will do so so many times, with an absolute, irrefutable compromise, sharing this commitment with civil society actors as well that help to push it forward and plant us in the face of State failures or State negligence to take on that responsibility that you have commanded even as the State to embrace refugees with dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.127.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.128.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, President, for your reply. So, we want to point out some concerns that are also very central to us at this time. For what he does to the inner walls, we are especially concerned that some, such as Mr Albiol, try to build in our towns and cities – that, as it were, we are trying to get as quickly as we can and have the opportunity – and that they serve as a cutting-off later on for Islamophobia, racism and xenophobia. We haven't had very recent cases, unfortunately. On the outside walls, let 'em tell you that we are concerned about its proliferation and expansion under the impulse of the new president of the United States or, for example, in the case of the State of Israel, for which it does to the case of Palestine. Will your Government take account of these realities with a view to defining its political and economic alliances, both transatlantic and Mediterranean, in order to ensure that our country and the future republic, which we want to be inclusive and united, are clearly positioned to defend human rights and the collective rights of peoples?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.129.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.130.0	Naturally, honourable Member, we are absolutely against all those who promote walls within our country and all those who, moreover, frivolize with the idea that it is possible to raise a society or that it is sufficient a society that generates differences for reasons of belief, for reasons of race, for reasons of taste, for reasons of origin, for a thousand and a reason that we have seen so many examples, as in certain areas it can proliferate, and we know what the consequences are of lowering the guardship. That's what we do every day; we have policies, we don't have to be proud of these policies. We have actors on the territory who make an unpayable job, both at school and at the junctions as on the street. We have results, because with the immigration indexes that we have, I think we can feel like a cohabitation society, but, alertly, this has to be built every day, because we know that they have to be deconstructed every day and that they have to do, with their politics, they put at risk the conquests that are very hard and difficult to achieve. Against this we will never lower the guard. And that has to do with who is the capture or compromise of a government before human rights and, therefore, of complaint when these human rights are raised at home or are raised outside the home. And so I extend my hand to all the countries that are making an important effort, especially to Europe, and let 'impose in value, despite all the shortcomings, despite all the incompliments and despite many shames that still make us pass Europe, thanks to Europe, also, especially to the countries that are out of hand and that know that despite the political differences, that despite the geographical differences, fraternity between the human beings is key to guaranteeing a planet...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.131.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.132.0	...sustainable and pau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.133.0	...has run out of time. Thank you. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the reasons for which the Government has not filed a complaint for slander against ex-Santiago Vidal. They have made their statements on the illegal obtaining of tax data.]] [[317-00115/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.134.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Through Ex-Senator Vidal we have known that they have been accusing them of tempting their government, of tempting against the privacy of Catalans, of holding us to all files and of obtaining tax data illegally. That, whether you're independent or not, we think it's inadmissible and it's a scandal for any democrat. My question, Mr President, is very specific: if these statements are false, why not file a complaint against Mr Vidal for slander and defamation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.135.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.136.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, Mr. Albiol, among other things, because Mr. Vidal has already assumed his responsibility and, certainly, in a good time, and today that Mr. Vidal is no longer a senator. So good are all those public charges that exceed their manifestations in the consistency of the gesture that Mr. Vidal has had to resign in twenty-four hours of difference. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.137.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.138.0	Mr President, the accusations against Mr Vidal are not merely a political reference with political consequences; they are accusing him of committing a crime and, therefore, if he is distorting the reality that you must do as President of the Generality is to file a complaint for the good and for the tranquility of all Catalans. If it doesn't, some reason you have to, because now it will turn out that Mr. Vidal is an illuminator, huh? , is an illuminant when you, concretely Mr. Arthur Mas, filed it, put it on the name of the Government of Catalonia to write this famous constitution. Mr President, all this evidence has shown is the true face of his name's process, a process that treats Catalans as if we were underage, a process that lists... Yes, Mr Turull, makes lists. Makes lists of judges who are friends and who can stay behind independence and those who have to leave [[some applause]] Mr. Vidal said. He makes lists of those working who are willing to touch the palms to the romery that organized the past dilluns, and those who have not touched the palms to President Arthur Mas, and these, so, obviously, well identified. So, yes, they are very donated to you to make lists, but from the People's Party we would ask them that if they so much like to make lists of Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.139.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.140.0	... between good and sorrowful, who is concerned about the lists that are really important, and they are those of hundreds of Catalans who are on the hospital waiting list; those Catalans who cannot be held in a minimum condition because there are plants of hospitals that are closed and that have to be kept in passes, in letters, there as if they were anything. Lists of children in Catalonia who cannot study under conditions in a school, who are studying in barracks. I'm worried about these lists, which are the important ones, and centers where they are the real priorities of Catalonia. So, Mr. President, what they're asking of you is that it's dedicated to working...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.141.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.142.0	...the dexies to provoke...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.143.0	Mr. García Albiol, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.144.0	...a political and social conflict in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.145.0	There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.146.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Albiol, if we were to position ourselves every time someone accused us of making a crime, we would not donate for lawyers, among other things, because every day, under pressure and political leaders, some of your party, accuse us of heavy crimes, for example of sedition, for example. And so, when it happens, more so, when things happen that you don't have to consider as crimes, that is to think that a president of the Generality "needs a good sinking, literally for a former senior member of his government, when that happens, what things, the courts file. So a lot of encouragement and a lot of confidence doesn't wake us up. You've talked about the lists and you've had the detail today not to mention Schindler's list, because I assume you've given him time to see the movie before he made that unfortunate consideration and today itself. But, if you want, let's talk about lists; I have a very long one. Miri, this port is always over; it's forty-six points. And this is a list that you must have read, I imagine, even though your party's government prefers to talk to Mrs. Arrimadas before you, a list that talks about issues that concern people – that concern people – and we don't have an answer about that. It is more, indeed, that we have one, of answer; we have an answer that when I have said by active and passive, in public and in private, that I am willing to meet with Mr Rajoy, the answer we get is that "know what? , we will already leave it after the Congress of the People's Party, because it is more important the Congress of the People's Party than to establish a dialog with the President of Catalonia, to talk about, yes, the things that affect the citizens in Catalonia, why not pay the scholarships in time, why not donate the money for the Law of Dependency, why not complete the investment forecasts in infrastructures that would prevent these collapsing Renfe, which still this week we have come back to hold. And who doesn't have an interest in talking about it? Obviously, the Spanish government has no interest. When you make all the lists you want of the pending dues that the Spanish State has with Catalonia, and we can start with the third additional provision of the State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.147.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the compliment of the assumptions of the Generality of Catalonia for 2017 and of the provisions relating to the demand for structural funds to the Government of the State]] [[317-00112/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.148.0	Thank you, President. Very honorable, today is Vidalandia's day. You will allow me not to do an incursion into this country I imagine, but that, following in the fantasy register, I ask you about the assumptions, that they also have a good dose of fantasy. Look, last week we finished debating the reviews and the parliamentary force that supports the government lost more than a thousand, some very high. My question is this, it's double, a double question. First, will your government comply with the presuppositions that are expected to be approved in a few weeks' time when these items have the force of law? And second of all, does your government really intend to push the structural foundations that it has agreed with the CUP and that they suppose to ask Mr. Montoro for funding? I say in case we're in the morning voting a law of disconnection and on the evening Mr. Junqueras asked Mr. Montoro for structural funds. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.150.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rabell, the assumptions, whether they are a fantasy or not, will be the responsibility of the Parliament, which approves the assumptions, which incorporates or does not incorporate the considerations that in a way, I understand, responsible the parliamentary groups formulate had calculated what they cost, what is promised in the territory and is quantified and the available money that the Government has. I suppose you're not telling me that in a premise that you will surely vote against..., you won't be dragging it back to the government that after you're done exactly what you voted on, that's not completing it. Of course we will complete the assumption, it would only be missing – it would only be missing. Now, will you complete your exams? Is it to say, if you, the papers, introduce them, will vote in favor of the premise? I invite you to vote in favour of the presupposition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.151.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.152.0	The compliment of the reviews would imply, as soon as possible, starting to introduce a tax reform there we can introduce it : in the imposition of estates, donations, in assets and in the Catalan tram of the IRPF. Without trying to make the most of what they have and contribute to the height of their responsibilities, it is impossible to complete with this premise, neither with any – nor with any –, nor to have any redistributive policies. The responsibility to complete the assumptions is the government, which will approve them. Because you will approve them, but you have to approve them, you should approve them responsibly. If not, what happens is that we are talking about disobedience, and the only view or authority that you will disobey will be the vote of the Parliament of Catalonia, it will be the Parliament of Catalonia. Because, in the end, in these presuppositions you ask us..., and I insist a lot on this aspect – I insist a lot on this aspect–, you inflate yourself to speak of disobedience, and you propose to us some structural points that demand to be good minutes with the Spanish government and to preach to it, please – that you finance to what you do not have the courage and political determination to go to the most affluent classes, that you should contribute to the financing of the public services of the Generality. Therefore, they do not do this double language, rebellion, oratory, indiscipline and slow gesture in Parliament, and at the time of truth – at the time of truth – so be good minions with those who have the most, and be good minions, also, presumably, with the Spanish Government. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.153.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.154.0	Thank you very much. I see that you insist on a term that when I had the opportunity to talk about it I made it absolutely clear. You were talking about "disobedience. Whenever I referred to this concept I said that we are by obedience to this Parliament. Therefore, I do not begin to practice this tactic that some opposition groups can escape, but not to you, that is to repeat a lie a thousand times because it is converted..., as Councillor Mundó said, a lie a thousand times repeated. This government is a serious government, which started its mandate by making a compromise to do things right, and that with more than one year that carries, fixed's, all those who hoped that this government would be attacked because it would not complete the laws, it would not do well, nothing happened to it. Do you understand me? And we can continue to rule and rule until the end with this commitment of obedience, of righteousness, of doing serious things. We have a duty to trust people. We also have the duty of something else that I said the first day, which is: "We will take care of the while. It sounds like it, doesn't it? While we are making it complete, because we are also interested in today's Catalans, and this is not incompatible with wishing for the present Catalans a better future for tomorrow's Catalans. And this should certainly be an idea that should inspire progressive parties. On the compliment of the papers, I..., in short, what is not responsible is to place some papers and then vote against the premise; this is not responsible. Because then you're not trying to get the items to work for the people, you're trying to get the items to be cheated. They're trying to get the papers to be one of us because the government can't pull their assumptions, which are good. We will put together a number of proposals, as many as possible, and we will quantify them, brutally, hey, and then vote against them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.155.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.156.0	And, more so, then, when I don't complete...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.157.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.158.0	...we'll tell them not to comply.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.159.0	Tretzena asks the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the actions outside the Spanish legality girls or planned to favor the independence process]] [[317-00113/11]] The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.160.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, Mr. President, it's to follow Mr. Rabell's line, if you find out what the government doesn't want, the only thing that's shown is that this government doesn't have a majority in Parliament, and it's already there. [[Some applause.]] But the one who wanted to tell him, the one who wanted to ask him has to see with Santiago Vidal's statements. Not because I forget them or not, because I really care about their words and their words in their parliament. And that's why I ask: has your government done, is it doing or is it planning to do things outside of Spanish law to advance the independence process?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.161.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.162.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, you referred to the statements of Judge Vidal, Exjutge Vidal, Exsenator Vidal, who was the object of many questions from all opposition groups, to the Government, to the Councillor, to the Vice President, and I will answer him the same. I will be even more explicit, if I may say so: this government has failed and will not succeed, while I am president, given unlawfully and unlawfully. I can't say for sure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.163.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.164.0	President, I appreciate the accuracy, but I can't thank him for the completeness, because I said if he did, if he's doing or will do anything to separate himself from Spanish law. And, look, the doubt is because his predecessor was talking to us about astuteness and deceiving the State; now we've listened to him before a court of law saying he wasn't aware of being disobeyed. But you said: "I will make a reference granted or not. Agreed won't be. I, therefore, have the other alternative. And the other alternative, if you don't agree... the reference will be illegal. His predecessor says: "I was not aware of being disobeyed, because they did not warn me enough. But you do. This chamber, yes, has been sufficiently warned by the Constitutional Court since the November 2015 declaration. You do know that if you approve of the law outside the constitutional framework the court will immediately suspend you, you do know that if you sign an illegal referendum the Constitutional Court will also suspend you. There is no unilateral or illegal exit to the problem that we have between hands and demand, as I have already done in the investiture debate, that I do not place Catalan institutions outside the law and do not play with the idea that there are various legalities. There's a law and the Constitutional Court in the past is what says what's legal and what's not. Do not take false sentences that do not take place or that bring us to court what should be a matter to resolve in the political sphere. It is true that there has not been the necessary debate, the necessary dialogue between governments, but even though you consider that the PP government does not want or will want to dialogue, this does not enable it to skip the law. That's why I want you to tell this chamber if you're willing to disobey the Constitutional Court and to make decisions that are against the law. And I'm also in a hurry to tell you, if I don't find alternatives to disobedience or legality, if you don't see the color of doing things in another way, I end up with this sterilized legislature and call for elections so that Catalans can decide the way forward and that this Parliament can choose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.165.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.166.0	...another president. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.167.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.168.0	Thank you very much. I believe that what a parliament should not do is to do futurology. Anem pas a pas – anem pas a pas. We have the burden of this Parliament, which is in force, which you do not like, but which is in force and which is not suspected, to attempt a reference granted to the State. I used to call the dialyx. I'm not the gift for death, ever, until the last minute. I'm surprised that you already have the gift for death and that you don't want to devote the least effort to making it possible that it's enormously difficult. But do you know why it's harder than it should be? Because groups like you don't pedal. Because if you really believe that it is possible to resolve the political conflict that exists between Catalonia and Spain through the dialogue, as you say, you would do everything possible, obscuring as much as possible the reasons of the law – which are there, and you know it, because you have not been involved – to make possible what this Parliament has voted and continues to be in force, and it is that there is an agreement to hold a referendum. On this is the National Referendum Pact, to which I invite you to join and make your version feel, too, and yours... Because we will all together have much more strength to get to what is sometimes unlikely or unlikely in democracy, but it ends up happening. Before Mr. Rabell referred to how they managed to change policies in the field of denunciation. And he spoke... and even claimed, as a disobedient, for a good cause, I understand. Therefore, in this sense, he put disobedience to the service of a good cause that has had some results and that, thanks to this result, today we have a legislative framework different from what we have, that makes them legal and practical, they were clearly immoral. And we all realize that this could have changed. Why? Because there were-there were mobilizations, because there were-there were people who didn't resign. I demand that we are not resigned, that we do not possess... that we do not have a futureology about what will happen, we shall see, what will happen. You heard me on the 28th of September in this Faristol. I think I've been very explicit, I think, from what I said, you can't deduce neither ambiguity nor lack of courage. I have not given up on that trust, because, among other things, Parliament has held me to the confidence to continue to do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.169.0	Fourteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the measures taken in the past year to eradicate corruption in Catalonia]] [[317-00110/11]] Formulated for Ms. Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.170.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, the last barometer from the Anti-Fraud Office says that 83_percent of Catalans consider corruption to be a serious or very serious problem and 35_percent considers it to have increased in recent years. In view of this, what concrete steps has your Government taken this year to put an end to corruption in Catalonia? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.171.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.172.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, as you are aware, because you have seen it since the first day, this government has equipped itself with a specific department on transparency. And a department that works hard and has developed transparency practices that they don't have – they don't have – rivals in place of Europe. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.173.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.174.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, you're always talking about the Department of Transparency and you're all but transparent. I know how it has to be that the Bureau of Parliament, in which you have a majority, recognised, yesterday, protection for a Member of ours in the face of Mr Romeva's refusal to give us the documentation we asked for. I, with all due respect, Mr. Romeva... [[Greetings.]] With all due respect, Mr Romeva is a politician who lies in a curriculum, because he is neither a minister nor a foreign minister, nor much less transparent. But said this, you can't say a single measure to fight corruption because they haven't done any. And you don't want to talk about the issues that bother you. Seven months ago we asked for your appearance in this Parliament – yours – in order to be able to talk long and hard about corruption and we are still waiting for it. We have asked for your appearance to discuss Judge Vidal's statements and you have said that he is hiding, that he does not want to come to debate. I only notice him comfortable talking about 9-N, but in Catalonia there will be more trials than 9-N. For example, I ask you: when the Palau case comes to trial and 3 percent, will you make an institutional declaration against corruption, as you did on Monday with the 9-N? Are you going to ask officials to take the holiday to show up at the courthouse door? [[Widow's remorse.]] Are you going to organize a performance from Plaça Sant Jaume to the court? Look, corruption is a very serious problem that concerns Catalans. And you now say that it is an invention of Madrid, and no one who says that corruption does not exist or that corruption is not present in Catalonia can fight corruption in Catalonia. In fact, some of those who said 'Spain steals from us, they are now going to have to sit on the bench of the accused precisely for stealing. I ask you today, Mr Puigdemont, that you commit yourself with all Catalans to giving face in Parliament also to matters that you do not like; for example, corruption or, for example, the statements of Judge Vidal. I know that you have come to an expiry date, I know that there are probably a few months left for this parliamentary term and you have a few months left as president, but I ask you to try to represent all Catalans in the months that are left, please, that no more money and more time be spent on an independence that will not come and also, please, to face up to it, even on the issues that bother you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.175.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.176.0	Thank you very much. Believe that if you had chosen to live comfortably, you would not have accepted the office of president. Therefore, I did not feel sorry for my comfort or discomfort, which is being tested. Miri, corruption is a concern of Catalans, Spaniards, Frenchmen..., sad. And corruption, despite the fact that governments – most of them – have taken steps to eradicate it and that today I think we can say – and this government is not an example – that we have good practices, because this government is not under the light of mind suspended, although this, it is true, as it is, that the perception of the citizenry about corruption is worrying. So worrying is that in the credibility index that the institutions deserve, the last of all is just the administration of justice, for something will be – for something will be. Naturally, this is a government committed against corruption; how could it not be? Probably, more than you, that you have no problem making the president of a party of the most corrupt of the history of Spain president of the government; there is no problem. And, plus, they come to terms to try... [[remorse of the voice]] , to try to end what is said in the turntables, and they have bought them the mantra, but the first decision taken by the Government is to place the former Director General of the Civil Guard at the Board of Administration of Electric Network ; fixed, turntables, whether or not they are finished. Naturally, all the cases that this Government..., and that affect this Government, in which it has to be a person or a person or a declaration, this Government will do without any kind of delay; it has already done so when it has done so and it will do so if, sadly, it is up to it in the future. And we will answer from what this government has to answer, not from what you would like to answer, by passing, let's say, the laugh over there where it doesn't approach, to see if it continues to feed what I have tried to explain in my intervention in the matter of order, that it is to create this screen in what it is worth – what it is all about –, in which, on this screen, there are still lots of misinformation and information to create things as safe as, for example, that in Catalonia the economy goes badly, that in Catalonia the enterprises are moving, that in Catalonia the process is frightening the economy. And, precisely, we grow two tenths per month from Spain, we have four points of difference of duration in relation to Spain, we are the factory of jobs from Spain, we are leaders in exports and we are leaders in direct foreign investment. That's the reality, but you keep putting totxans on this wall of misinformation to keep people from knowing what really concerns and deals with Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.177.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.178.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.179.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the affectation of the judiciary to Arthur Mas, Joana Ortega and Irene Rigau for the consultation of 9 November 2014 in the image of the country]] [[317-00114/11]] Fifteen questions, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.180.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, I have already said before, that today by force we want to refer to a question that cannot pass through. And we said that today in this House we are not all that we should be. In our Parliamentary Group today there was no way to assist the Member Irene Rigau. And he couldn't watch it, why? So, because she's sitting on the bench of the defendants. And sitting on the bench of defendants for what crime? So, to help make possible a consultation with the citizens of Catalonia; with the bench of the accused, to be loyal to the repeated mandates of this Parliament; with the bench of the accused, to be loyal to the democratic mandate of the ballots of those elections that, of 135 deputies, 107 went here with the compromise with the citizens that on the future politics of Catalonia they would be consulted. All of this, which is so noble, so coherent and, above all, so democratic, turns out to be on the bench of the accused. And with her, ex-president Mas, the most senior political officer of that historic day, and ex-vice-president Joana Ortega. In the Spanish State, I'd have to put shame on him for this episode, and if he doesn't do it now, he'll do it more quickly. Make political judgments in full 21st century in a supposed democracy has neither release nor return. I should have shamed him, too, to force the maximum and the limit that you thrive on this lawsuit, against the legal criteria of the prosecutors of Catalonia. We have a court that judges them, but, as we have said many times these days, we feel all justices, all those who have democratic convictions – we vote yes to independence, they vote not to independence – all those who do not scare us out of the ballot box. The courts today judge them, but history and time will severely judge this farce of judgment. From the Junts for the Yes, I have already said before, I repeat now, these episodes of judicialization of politics and politicization of justice refer to us even more in our commitment to do it well, to do it more together, to do it quickly and to be able to complete the process. They can make the moves they want from mobilization, they can talk about numbers, they can say what they want, but if they continue so we are sure that one day they will look and there will be no more, because we will be gone and we will have done it peacefully and democratically. It's all this, President, that we want to ask you how and how you think this week's trial affects President Mas, former President Ortega and former Councillor Irene Rigau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.181.0	Mr. Turull...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.182.0	...for November 9th...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.183.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.184.0	...in this countdown?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.185.0	The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.186.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, you have two kinds of affections. One, which I think is negative for Spain, for the Spanish brand, for the image of Spain, for the role that Spain can play in the world. Because instead – instead – and, at last, I could say countries that are openly against Catalonia being an independent country, instead, that is well seen. You're not good. When a state is unable to solve for politics what is a political matter and sends it to the court with intent of mockery, more so, and tries to send a message, and coach, to see if we can take over for what we have to prepare the reference, it is a very poor state in which it cannot be trusted. And that's bad for Spain. That is to say, the fact that the Spanish Government has the claim to become an interlocutor before the President of the United States to be an interlocutor with Europe, with North Africa, with the Middle East and with South America when it has home, five hundred miles away from Madrid, a political apher that creams the words of more than five years ago – accredited and uninvented, real – and it is unable not to solve it, but only to recognize it as a problem and end up as a table to speak to it without any condition, shows that this is a state, insists, that you have a bad piece on television. But he has another type of affection, which is what the people who showed the diluns supporting the three lawsuits have also proven, and he remembers that this is a process that needs to be down and goes up. The reverse of what the Spanish transition made, for example, is that it went up and down. This is a process that while there are people on the side, that is what really scares, that is what really irritates and that is why the main disqualifications are going to ridicule the effort of so many good people... – tell them that they are pale, in fact, that they are making a number and that they are going to make comparisons, that if we have paid the buses, that if we have paid for the businesses, it must be that they are very used to filling the meetings based on this type of tactics – when these people are starting, in other words, that the process is in the hands of the citizenry, when this process, let's say, respects it. That's why they spend so much time, that's why they spend so much effort. If it was a four-politics thing, if it was a four-game thing, think 'but they wouldn't grant it that much importance. You must be the only doorman today who hasn't talked about Vidal justice. I'm celebrating. They wouldn't grant him that much importance. What are you worried about? It's a matter of concern because, just like it's been shown to be a long time and all those years back and the times and years before, this is a process that's happy in people's hands.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.187.0	President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.188.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.189.0	...has run out of time. Once the control session is over, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Draft Law on the Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts]] [[200-00002/11]] The third item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the committee's opinion on the draft law on the legal basis of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts. [[Widow's remorse.]] In accordance with Rule 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justicia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.190.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament, Director of the Committee on Codification of Catalonia, Chairman of the Section for Obligations and Contracts, Members of the Section for Obligations and Contracts and of the Harmonisation Section, Director-General of the Right and Legal Entities and all persons accompanying us today to the rostrum, also the President of the Dincat Federation, Members and Lords, welcome everyone to the Parliament of Catalonia on a day that is important. Today is an important day for the history of the rights of Catalonia because we are culminating in a building that we have been building collectively for the last fifteen years, with the efforts of many people, from consensus, from different political forces and with a very high level of involvement of the country's legal community. It is just to thank, and I want to begin here, the effort and determination shown by all the Councillors of Justice who have preceded me, their teams, the commissions of justice of the different legislatures in this Parliament, the Codification Commission and the Observers of Private Rights of Catalonia. Without his contribution today it would be impossible to approve the earthquake, and last, free of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Many generations have the opportunity to re-regulate a civil code and all of us feel fortunate to have participated. We have the conviction that this is a code that will serve to give a useful answer to the present, and also a useful answer to the challenge of the future. The Civil Code of the 21st century, which is what we complete today, has deep roots in the Catalan institutions of private law that have seen the length of the centuries. And that's also why those who are still trying to question the condition of birth, the civil law relationship is the most obvious proof that Catalonia is a millennial nation. This law is the fruit of the work, dedication and rigour of the best experts who, after lengthy doctrinal discussions, have been able to draw up a useful and thoughtful text with an unquestionable technical quality. In this sense, the fact that a parliamentary group has requested an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees has served to ascertain the strength of this law and to clear any doubt from all the Members of this House, including those who requested the opinion. The law that we approve today culminates in the structure of the Civil Code of Catalonia, incorporates all the legislation in force in the matter of obligations and contracts, involves the derogation of special five laws and contributes to the necessary rationalization and simplification of the legal order. From now on, there will only be one more effort to harmonize the code and complete some final aspects. It is important to note that with the approval of this law we are definitively replacing a rule that has been the reference for many years: the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia of 1960, which laid the foundations of the modern Catalan law. I want to highlight this fact and thank the task carried out for a generation of authentic civil rights savis, formed by great lawyers who, with an eminently practical view and in an exceptionally hostile context, knew how to collect and modernise our historical right preserving it for future generations. Today, from the grace to which they have preceded us in this task, let us certify the death of the 1960 Compilation and celebrate the culmination of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Having done the graces and underlining the import of such a high standard to our legal system, I will go on to highlight the main content of the Sisè book, which includes the definition of the structure, a complete regulation of sales contracts, exchange and warrants and contracts contained in special laws. The purchase contract is regulated in the first chapter, that of the book sisè, and it is the most relevant contribution of the bill, because, as you know, the purchase contract is the civil contract par excellence. Among the most important features of the regulation that is made of the purchase, it should be noted that it offers a unified regulation that includes the purchase of movable and immovable goods, and also the purchase of consumer goods. In this context, special attention has been paid to consumer and user protection legislation and the content of community directives has been transposed into this area. Faithful to the legal tradition that we have inherited, two historical figures of the Catalan right as they are have remained, in fact, up-to-date: the sale by letter of thanks and the termination by injury. For what it does to the sale of immobile goods, it has regulated itself respecting the legal tradition, but also giving a useful answer to the current problems. In this sense, the bill incorporates first-hand notarial and registrar practice solutions that seek to offer more and better alternatives to buyers; primarily, to buyers of habitats. To give an example, the text incorporates the financing pact for a third party that allows the buyer to disconnect from the contract and recover the funds if I did not get a mortgage in the fixed term. It also regulates the sale of immovables in construction or rehabilitation in a community situation, improving the protection of the buyer's right offered by the current state legislation. Another important measure of the new regulation project is the regulation of the institution of the resolution condition. We wanted to recover this figure and turn it into a valid alternative to the mortgage, as its current weak regulation had fallen into disuse. For what it does to the swap contract, it was decided to regulate it independently, differentiating it from the purchase of the sale and from the cessation of the urban profit estate to the future construction change. The second chapter offers a very complete new regulation of the mandate contract which resolves various questions not covered by the current legislation and which, until now, have been resolved through the doctrinal and jurisprudential means. In this case, what regulates the book is the strict mandate, that is, the representative mandate, which implies the legitimation and the obligation to act on behalf of the representative. On the other hand, the chapter also backs the management of aliens who, even though it is not a contract itself, need some rules for the case that it is not ratified. In fact, this figure is conceived as a residual institution respecting the mandate, since the ratification of the management implies the application of the rules of the mandate. For what it does to contracts of conreu, included in the third chapter, we have clearly established the rights and obligations of the owners and the conreadors, giving full legal certainty and requiring some aspects linked to the problem exist in many territories in relation to the leftovers. In the fourth chapter, random contracts are regulated, among which is found the rape, or life-saving thought, and the food contract, which has developed and updated. Another of the novelties that is incorporated in the fourth chapter is the territorial custody contract. With this contract we adopt experiences of the right compared and give institutional nature card to a manner that at these times already has a certain trajectory and implantation in our country. The purpose of this contract is to preserve the biodiversity, landscape and natural and cultural heritage of Catalonia. Chapter 5 regulates cooperation contracts, and incorporates the law of integration contracts, of the utmost importance in our branching sector, which is highly systematized and updated, especially for the delimitation of contractual and administrative obligations of the parties. Finally, the chapter sisè is dedicated to the financing and guarantee contracts. The most relevant incorporation in this area is the census contract, which must serve us to re-adapt this institution to its financing purpose in long term as an alternative to the loan. Explained the main elements of the book sisè, I want to highlight some of the best introduced in other books of the Civil Code. As you know, this law will also serve to update the books first, second, third, fourth and fifth, providing solutions to concrete problems and incorporating social demands, some widely claimed, that will improve the quality of life of all citizens. For example, according to the new law of voluntary jurisdiction, we took advantage of the adoption of the book if to simplify some questions related to family law and inheritance, such as the so-called 'interview in jure', which would facilitate the work of legal operators and also of all citizens. What we intend to do with this measure is to unburden the courts with a follow-up in which there is no dispute in itself requiring a judicial ruling and to simplify things for the citizen, who can satisfy his needs more quickly and economically, and who must not assume the effort involved in initiating judicial proceedings. In this same line we have corrected the difficult problem that had arisen with the censuses. The previous legislative amendment was full of good intentions, but practicality has involved a very important workload in the courts, with expedients where there are hundreds of parts involved. From then on, we offer alternatives that will prevent the judicial process and reduce the collapsing of the affected courts, ensuring full guarantees to the interested parties. Another very relevant novelty that has a great practical transcendence, for example in the protection of the right to housing, is the modification of the book five in the sense of giving more guarantees to debtors and consumers, especially in view of a possible mortgage enforcement procedure. The text that we approve today determines that the cessation of a credit or mortgage loan is to be notified in good faith to the debtor indicating who is the price or value and the essential conditions of the termination, this is an irrevocable notification for the debtor. No one can escape that this novelty will have very important effects on the management of mortgage packages by large investment funds, which from now on will not be able to execute the mortgage property if it has not been expressly notified of the cessation of this right to the debtor. These are some of the many examples that are used to measure the impact on citizens of a standard such as the Civil Code. We have also taken advantage of this legislative initiative to introduce the definition of the concept of urban masoveria to the Law of the Right to Housing. As you know, this is a particular way of renting our cities every day. With the will to make a useful civil code for people and sensitive to each situation, we have also modified the second book in relation to the ability to open people with disabilities. From then on, every time a court decrees a judicial incapacity, it will be obliged to express its opinion on the right to vote of the disabled person. This is a long claim by entities working with disabled people and I am particularly pleased to have incorporated it into the Civil Code of Catalonia. And what we have to do is focus on people's abilities and not their disabilities. Taking into account the import of the measure, we have granted, the set of groups, that part of the law enters into force on March 1st. In short, today we finish the roof of a large building that we have built with hands, the work and the talent of many people during the last fifteen years. I want to thank everyone for the enormous work done. This is, without doubt, one of the most important laws that this Parliament can pass. For some it may be seen as a technical and personal thing of those who know about laws, but the fact is that it has a very significant impact on the lives of people in this country. I would like to thank the papers presented to all parliamentary groups, which in many cases have served to improve and enrich the law. We have made a very important effort to integrate them into the text, with the aim of strengthening the collectivity of this work and preserving the enormous consensus that has historically defined the civil right of our country. In this sense, I think we can all recognize each other and feel the law that we will approve of today; that's why they demand that they vote for it. I ended by reiterating the satisfaction that I have gained from having participated in the elaboration of the Civil Code of Catalonia of the 21st century. This is a code that stands out on the foundations of a legal tradition of many centuries, but that is modernity to give response to the challenges of the citizens of the 21st century. I honestly believe that in a collective way we can feel very proud of it. The approval of this law is also a tribute to the excellent lawyers and professionals of the right who preceded us in time and who in extraordinary difficult situations kept our right alive. The text that we approve today also carries its undertaking. We trust that all of us follow heretics worthy of this tradition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.191.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Next, to present the work of the commission, has the word Mr Jordi Orobig, who in mad putting rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.192.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor Mundó, Members, Members, I also want to make a special greeting, as the Councillor has done, to all those who accompany us and who are an essential part of the development and construction of this project, without the participation of which, logically, would not be achieved, right? Well, the counselor said it well; he said today is an important day for all those who believe in the right of our people to build their future through their own institutions, and it is clear that the right is one of the fundamental structures in which any society and any state is founded, isn't it? With this book we complete the regulatory structure in the civil sphere. And, therefore, from this point of view we could qualify as a normal country. This would not have been possible without the task, obviously, of the Department of Justice, which is who promoted this bill, but especially not without the task of the Codification Commission, with which I have had the opportunity, in the future of this bill, to gather, deal with the fundamental aspects of the bill and see its will and flexibility in order to gather all those points that we understood to be able to enrich the text and, ultimately, serve us to equip ourselves with a better right to serve our citizens. I think it is also a waste to express my gratitude to the speakers of the Law, to the representatives of the other parliamentary groups, who have taken the lead, therefore, to choose me as the rapporteur of this draft law in its parliamentary processing, and I want to make a personal statement, so that they will go to history, or that they will soon, in the transcript, in an act – Mr. Benet Salellas, Mr. Esperanza García, Mr. Coscubila, Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra and José María Espejo – in fact, I insist, to have entrusted myself as rapporteur of this project and, in any case, for their attitude, cordiality and ability to work, huh? We'll have more or less, but I think we've had the ability to dialogue and make positive proposals. And that also, logically, also, we must make a special thank you to the staff of the chamber, to the transmitter, and, in particular, also, to the cast, to accompany us, to Mrs. Imma Folchi, right? because his task has been essential for the coordination of an important project, with a very broad, very powerful text and which, logically, for these conditions, has been subject to many proposals for enrichment, through papers, that we will find this rich when we proceed to the votes, if I do not have it wrong, until sixty-five, right? So, if it is the will of the Members of Parliament today, a bill of law will be finally approved that was due to the last legislature, the drawing, that had already passed a debate to the totality, for the papers, in that case, of the People's Party and of Ciutadans, and that had already made a lot of appearances. Notwithstanding this, we have had the ability and flexibility to make a new period of appearances, passed the process of the speech to the totality, presented by the People's Party, and there has been a period of appearances I believe to benefit all groups and that it has also served to make proposals that have improved the text, right? We have had the ability to incorporate, and I say it modestly, those elements that enrich the text and that did not have to be seen with a strictly political stance that questioned the competence of this Parliament to legislate in this area. And, therefore, I want to indicate that they have joined, fallen, because of the fact that they have responded to their initiative, or have been traded, up to 16_percent of the views of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; 36_percent of the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Socialist Party; 62_percent of the views of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot; 86_percent of the views of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, and 100_percent, in this case, of the views proposed for the Joint Group for the Yes, right? In the case of the People's Party, logically, some points have also been accepted; some, a few, have been negotiated, but it is a waste that we say that its establishment was very light for what it does to the competence of the Parliament to legislate in this area, and logically they could not be welcomed in the parliamentary group that is promoting this legislative initiative in this Parliament. This damage, while in another way, has also been expressed for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, and, as the Councillor has rightly expressed, in this case it was requested an opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which has not questioned in any case..., it has concluded that it was not questionable, as it was for the Citizen Group, nor the rigour in its processing, and therefore the submissions submitted by Juntes per el Si in the process of submitting statements were completely legal and admissible, and until they have been, could have been dealt with – something else has been the will of the other parliamentary groups to use this right or not. Nor is it a question, I insist, that there is neither the right of participation nor the question of unfair advantage, the contract of mandate, the management of aliens, the exchange, the adaptation of contracts, in any case..., it is a question of the emperor of Article 129 of the Law of the Autonomous State of Catalonia. In short, a rule that is reinforced by this endorsement of the Council of Guarantees Statutes, which provides, as the Councillor has said, important novelties, not only in the same regulation of the contract of sale, incorporating the most modern directives and the transposition, in this case, of the European Union, but also previews new and innovative uses of interest for the society, such as the sale of mortgages title, the regulation of new contractual types...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.193.0	Mr. Orobtig, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.194.0	... – I'm done, Madam President – and the regulation of the urban masoveria and also the regulation, in this case, of the leftovers in the area of the contracts of conreu. In short, with this law we have an integral regulation of the civil, modern law, which is based on historical institutions, which conforms to the most demanding European standards and which must serve development, with full legal certainty, also in the private sphere...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.195.0	I know it's hard, but it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.196.0	...of the Catalan Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.197.0	Thank you, Mr. Orobtig. To defend the reserved items, has the word Mr. José María Espejo, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.198.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, Members, Members, in the first place also give thanks to Mr Orobig for the work he has done as editor, tot i que..., I think that the Councillor has actually appropriated the work that the Group of Junts for Yes has done, because he said that we have modified the second, third, fourth book... No, I think that has been done by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for Yes and not by the Government. I believe that you appeared on behalf of the Government and not on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group. It is that in this draft law I believe that there has been some confusion of roles, but in any case I recognize Mr Orobtig's work done and the openness always to speak, everything and that, obviously, as he said, because we have not agreed on almost anything as far as..., in this draft, which, on the other hand, he says completes the regulatory structure of Catalan civil law. Man, let me tell you, it doesn't even complete the sixth book itself, how will it complete the structure of Catalan civil law if it is a law that regulates two titles that have no writing? We can say what we want, but let's not say things that make no sense or conform to reality. Look, from Citizens, as we have already explained in the debate on the amendment to the whole of this bill, our intention was that with our interventions and amendments we could give a useful and practical content to it for the life of citizens, which would fulfil, a text like this, its main purposes, which are not others that, first of all, reduce the barriers, the difficulties and, ultimately, the costs that citizens have to hire, and secondly, that a confusing, complex and sometimes overloaded regulatory framework is not created, because the latter precisely does not facilitate free and fair recruitment among citizens, but adds barriers and costs to it; a contradictory framework, a framework that can make it difficult, when it is also done from a perspective of competition conflict, the legal traffic between citizens and the interpretation of law in the courts. We also warned them of the risk of a project which, as it was drafted at the outset, as in so many other areas, did not serve to defend the legitimate interests of the citizens, because it in many cases adds to civil relations between individuals more complexity and confusion, to an already complex legal order, with exceptions that I believe in this project must be praised – for example, the subject to which the adviser on disability has referred – but what is needed in general is to facilitate and protect private economic activities among the citizens. I recall that civil law is a right between individuals. The Generalitat has many powers in the field of consumption that it does not exercise as it should to protect citizens, in the face of abuses by large companies and corporations. Finally, they have also explained to us..., apart from all those experts to whom the Councillor referred, who deserve most of the respect, there have been other experts in the committee who have appeared where they were able to appear – because in some of us Members of Parliament have been deprived of the right to apply for appearances –, they have also expressed their opposition to the draft as it was drafted, affecting some of the problems that they might have. But, well, we already know that this of private interests, in a project like this, is something that the government is not interested in, because, as we have already seen and deduced from the speeches made both by Mr Orobtig and the councillor, the only objective of a project like this – and Mr Llach also said at the time – was to make a law different from the Spanish one, there is no other objective than that: to make a civil code different than Spanish, a state structure. This you have said, I do not make it up to me; I could assume it, even if you had not said it, but it is that you have also said it. And, moreover, with the aim of approving it at all costs, the important thing was to approve it at all costs, not to be debated... I think that in that, people who are going to vote even in favour of the opinion, I think that we would agree: we had to approve it, because it's been a long time, and it doesn't matter how things are done; if Parliament's Rules of Procedure are violated, nothing happens, but this has to be approved. When you are preoccupied with working exclusively with an objective, which is: state structures, separation, separation of laws..., you forget that the result is paid by citizens; it is paid by citizens with regulations that can complicate their lives, because then they can have an important competition problem – an important competition problem. Finally, we, as I say, had the hand to unblock the sixth book, because we have always defended that Catalan civil law has to be developed, it has to be updated, because it is an important legal framework for the development of civil relations between individuals in Catalonia, but as long as the final result is useful and consistent with the whole legal system. And we warned them that Citizens would not lend themselves with their vows to the creation of a normative body whose sole objective and content was to displace the law and regulations of common civil law by the mere fact of its origin. In short, this is not ideological positioning, competition problems are not ideological positioning. For you yes, for you they are ideological positions, for us not. For us competitive problems are problems that can then go to a court and make this law cannot be applied in its even good parts, which I can share. Why? Because they have been made in violation of the competence established in the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia. That's not an ideological position, it's a legal position made by a lawyer, as we were all in the paper and as you are also, counselor. But I believe that legal uncertainty does not matter to you. They've installed Catalonia, ever since they hugged all this... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, that's right, I have this opinion. You have installed Catalonia in legal uncertainty, and I think it is quite obvious. I mean, you don't need to even argue it, you just need to look at the newspapers, and... anyway, or listen to counselors calling the officials to manifest themselves at the door of the court, or hear that they have a law of legal transitoryness here, under the atrium, but that they don't want to take it out... Finally, the legal insecurity in which they have installed Catalonia. All of these – all of these – are more than enough reasons for which it is clear that it will be our vote in the negative. Negative because you have refused from the outset to accept virtually none of our amendments, which sought to make the text compatible with the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy, and you have persevered in that obsession to which I referred, so I insist, that the law be different from the Spanish one, because that is for you almost the only virtue of this rule, and not another. Similarly, the set of self-amendments... urged by Junts pel Yes or by the government? It's just that I still have the doubt; I don't know. I don't know, because you have taken them as a government action, but then you presented them together for Yes; then I still have this doubt. Finally, you are already used to democratic fraud in much of the initiatives being carried out in this Parliament. Either they skip the law and the regulation, or they say they have a law that they don't want to go through, in an exercise of transparency, but anything is worth it, because already, what is institutional shame, I think they have lost it. You introduced with your..., at last, with your deputies from Junts pel Yes – I don't know if you called them to introduce it or how... – a series of omnibus amendments that introduce a completely different content, object and scope and that distort what the Government presented and, moreover, depriving the rest of parliamentary groups of the possibility of contributing anything: we couldn't ask for appearances, amend the text of these amendments... Finally, it was a covert bill within an amendment. And that is why, among many other things, we present the opinion, to which you referred, to the Council of State Guarantees, which you say you have given them the right in everything. Well, I recommend you read it to him. And since he hasn't, I'll read it to him in a while, a part he's sure to like. Because in a decision of the Guarantee Board, on whose merits we do disagree because it departs, we believe, from the constitutional doctrine and is surely contradicted at some point by the Constitutional Court, it had to recognize, that is to say, that you have harmed the rights of parliamentary minorities. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He hasn't read it, I see he hasn't read it. The council itself stated this, but it is not well known why it came to say that, well, that yes, that rights are violated, but that it doesn't matter. I guess that's it. [[Funnel veils]] ..., yes, now I explain to you, and now, if not, then you explain to me here why you say one thing and then you decide otherwise. Maybe... well, I, with your way of arguing things... I don't know why this is about the politicization of justice. I respect what the council says, because I do abide by the resolutions of the bodies that are recognized in the laws. Not you, they say. No, no, you didn't, you voted here..., I don't know if you specifically, because I don't know if you're a Member, but it was voted that the Constitutional Court had nothing to say. I do recognize that the Council of State Guarantees has to say and has said. All right, I respect and respect him, but I may not share that. That's democracy. What is not democratic is disobeying and then saying: "No, no, but I didn't know I was disobeying. That's not democratic. Finally, I insist, we believe that there will be unnecessary competition conflicts caused by this way of proceeding. But as for the processing itself, I insist, the Guarantee Council itself makes a number of statements that to me, if I were the Group of Junts for Yes, would embarrass me. Look at, describe and recognize and reveal genuine parliamentary bad practices, typical of a parliamentary, non-social majority, that lamina – that lamina – the interests and rights of opposition groups. And that's what the Board of State Guarantees says. It's something that's really sad, but it's stopped being exceptional. I remind you that in this legislature up to five times the parliamentary majority, which is not social, has violated the right of citizens to participate on equal terms in public affairs. Recognized for sentences, huh? – recognised by judgments–, it is not that I say it – recognized by judgments. Do I read what the Constitutional Court says, no, the Council for Statutory Guarantees, whose members have been appointed by this chamber and which you said and now endorsed and so on? Well, with regard to this project, which I see you did not read to it, he says: "The Members of the opposition are going to find in a suffocated way with a majoritari group statement introducing a quantitatively extensive modification of civil code precepts that were not included in the text of the project and that are not referring to the Sisè book. Their ability to intervene on this new regulation was limited, as they could neither draft it nor make transactional proposals, as transactions require live items. This description, used by the majority, is critical and constitutes an inappropriate way of proceeding, which could substantially alter the formation of the legislative will of the chamber and affect the rights of parliamentarians. I read it a little slowly because perhaps you read it very quickly – there are a hundred pages – the opinion, and that is why you had not realized that this was here, but I think it says it very clearly; it says: "It could substantially alter the formation of the legislative will of the chamber and affect the rights of parliamentarians. It's just that you said that the council has fully endorsed this. He hasn't endorsed it – he hasn't endorsed it. It doesn't say Citizens, it doesn't say the PSC, it doesn't say the PP, it doesn't say Madrid, it doesn't say the Constitutional Court, nor does Donald Trump : it says the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, this – this. But there is no need to worry about it because in the end, as you well say, after saying this, it is not well known why, the council says that nothing happens, that we throw away. It's okay – it's okay. Rights may be violated, but nothing happens, let's move on – let's move on –; altogether, we are in Catalonia and this of the laws and regulations is very relative, that is to say, of the lost. [[the timer riu]] To the river. In short, with some minority exceptions from the article, I believe, my group believes that we are faced with another missed opportunity to make a truly useful update of Catalan civil law, a new demonstration that the only thing that interests them is to create useless and doomed to failure state structures, because they have not followed, they have not respected that competitive distribution; a clear source of legal uncertainty, therefore, and a model of the separation of regulations within an increasingly open economy. Therefore, I insist, a sign of indifference between the true interests of the citizens...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.199.0	Mr. Mirror, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.200.0	...and that's why we're going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.201.0	Next, to defend the reserved items, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.202.0	Thank you, President. Advisers, rapporteur, we are taking a step further in the completion of the Catalan civil right. We think you've come to this point we need to do a memory, historical memory or history-legislative exercise, if you'll excuse me. I would like to recall at this time the words of a lawyer, who fought for the rights of the workers during the Francoism and socialist deputy of this chamber between 1980 and 1988; I refer to Francesc Casares. Precisely in the act of delivery to the posthumous title of the 2016 Justice Prize, his son recalled his involvement in the development of the Catalan civil right. And I can't help but refer to his words, which from this same Faristol, thirty years ago, used to propose the Bill of Law reform of Article 6 of the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia. Referring to the function of the Catalan legislator and to the absorptiveness of his skills, he said in Francesc Casares that it was necessary to have a correct interpretation of Article 149.1.8 of the Constitution, which totally refuses to limit the concept of the Catalan right to the compiled right. "If it weren't for that," he said, "it would be difficult, not to say impossible, to hear the meaning of the word "development" applied to our right. And it is this spirit, that of the need for the development of our right as a living element, as much as it is the same society, with which the socialists have worked during these thirty years in the legislation, in the updating and in the development of our right. We must make it clear that, of the six books, that once approved of what we are debating today will have our Civil Code, four have been approved for governments encapsulated by socialist presidents. He has also been willing to continue to develop our right which has guided our action in the processing of this book if we debate today; a will which has been expressed in the fact of not putting through his processing and his debate. We didn't do it in the last legislature and we didn't do it in this one. The book we approve today, relating to obligations and contracts, reduces the regulation of the contract of sale and exchange, the incorporation of regulated contracts into special laws and the replacement of the Compilation of the Civil Law of Catalonia – before the councilman said that we certified the death. It is the last of the books of the Catalan Civil Code, a book that allows to close all the civil regulation; a book, however, incomplete. The open character of the Civil Code of Catalonia has allowed the subsequent formation of this civil regulation structured in different books, and, in accordance with this same subsequent formation, the Government presents to us today an incomplete book, in which the first and third titles of this one do not fall into conflict of competence. It is not possible to say, therefore, how we seemed to hear from the rapporteur, that this is one more step in the structures of the state. For us, it is a step further in the development of our right, the same way that the books that preceded it have been. And with this idea we have worked as we said before. We must say, however, that our willingness to work for the completion of our civil right has not been clearly matched, or, if not, we have not seen the willingness on the part of the Government or of the Group of Joints for the Yes – that it is certain that sometimes the role of each of us has been entrusted – to seek the necessary major consensuss; a consensus already referred to by the Deputy Casares in 1987, when he spoke that the way to regain exclusive competence, to develop our civil right, would not be a easy way, and that he would be aware of these difficulties in obliging the Government, before anyone else, to seek the necessary coincidences to do so. We can't go through with the way the government and the group that's been bringing him back into this process. If in the proceedings of this bill of law we have criticized that your Government, councillor, presents literally the same text that in the last legislature, we can now not fail to express our discontent with how the initial text, which the previous year presented to us, has resulted in what today they present to us for approval. And if it's true that we were able to ask for the appearances of jurists and persons with experts and concrete knowledge of the different figures that this book contains – or, at least, those that contained the original text – it is also true that in the process of discussions the group that supports the Government has entered the regulation of a figure as important as the mandate contract, or even changed the strengths of other civil code books. And on these points, as all the work has been carried out, we have not had the opportunity, from the Commission of Justice, nor to seek the advice sufficient of possible fellows nor to debate enough. It seems that the rush to close this free sisè – well, the part of the free sisè that is regulated – has finally led the government to a precipitation that is no good. Once again we see that the patent of the legislature conditions the work of this Parliament. This is not the way to respond to the will to work in favor of our Civil Code. This is not the way to seek the necessary consensus on an issue as important as this, and at a time when the fragility of the agreements is obvious. He's been working on this book for a long time. Yesterday, a lawyer pointed out to me that he was about fifteen years old that he had already started working on this book. And with this temporary scene, a few weeks more really doesn't seem like an unnecessary delay, but a guarantee of doing things right. Make more time to prepare a text where the figure of the mandate is incorporated, or all the modifications to be made in the other Civil Code books, some totally necessary for the adaptation of this to the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction of 2015, would have been a good legislative practice. Introduce it all through exams with a few sessions to discuss it, it is not. And, in this sense, we refer to the report of the Board of Statutory Guarantees, in which it considers this practical as inappropriate and critical, and even the whole door to proposing a better regulation to avoid future situations. In any case, with the will to develop our civil rights, as I said, in an area of such importance we have worked on the text presented, and we have made the contributions by means of ideas that we thought were opportune, aimed at improving, when we hear, the wording. We have done so on the basis of the appearances in the committee of jurists, academics and experts, whether this legislature or in the previous one, which have brought their point of view sometimes, as they commented, from a point of view contradictory. We have proposed, for example, to avoid certain indeterminate legal concepts that can lead to legal uncertainty. We wanted to balance the position of the shares in the purchase contract, in the case of the notification of conformity of the good or in the term of the exercise of the pretensions and actions of the remittances. It's just to set some example, and I won't be there anymore. And we have also made reference to the indications that from the agricultural sector we have come to the agreement and that we have been able to improve the initial proposal. Some of the papers, just a few – before the rapporteur said that a 36_per_cent–, have been accepted by way of transaction, which we value positively, even though we regret that there have been so few: a 36_per_cent really seem few to us. And, in this sense, the political balances of the Government have marked, in our view, the adoption to a greater or lesser extent of the papers presented for the groups. Finally, we would like to make some reflections, some reflections on the legal utility, but above all on the social aspect, which must be taken as a whole. We can only understand that our work has been successful if the law of the civil code book is useful to legal operators, who are the ones to apply it day by day, and, above all, if it is useful to the citizen and citizens. And, in this sense, I will set you the example of buying in a resolute condition, which can be positive as long as you can give other financing lives in some cases, for example, to access ownership. But this formula already exists. In fact, it had been used long ago and fell into disuse. Therefore, wanting to give it back to life generates doubts, doubts of legal use, but above all social, as we say. And yet, with the will to develop our right with the idea that it is useful, really useful, we have worked on this book, we have presented the ideas that we think are appropriate, of which we have not reserved ourselves in order to be debated and voted on in this plenary, and in the end we have the conviction that only the effective application of the different figures contained in that book will lead us to the conviction of the institution or not of its elaboration. Finally, tell them that today we finish the completion process of the Catalan Civil Code, a process that has been long, intense, but obviously does not close the need to continue regulating those situations that may arise in the future of social and economic life in Catalonia, because, as we have already said, the right is as alive as the same society is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.203.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. Next, to present the reserved items, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.204.0	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Counselor, members of the civil rights compilation committee... well, I think you should all be satisfied, some moderately, the others very, I suppose, with the fact that you arrive again, and this time for your final approval, the civil code's sise. Unfortunately, everyone here knows that definitive approval does not mean entry into force. And not because there's a long legal holiday, but because I'm very afraid that the path that has been chosen is a path that can lead us to certain problems, substantively competitive problems, which, almost certainly, will end up in the Constitutional Court. Then I'm going to get this thing back, because I think we could have done things in a different way. This is a debate with which a server, as I put it, is satisfied, at least in one part, I believe. Personally, I think we have been able to provide all of our ability, which is limited and modest, especially with regard to the planned work, very elaborate and very rigorous of those who drew up the initial bill, and, in this sense, I hope that some of the issues raised have helped to improve it. But there has been another debate, which continues to exist here, that unfortunately has not been positive, that it is not the civil code debate, it is the debate that unfortunately flattens and destroys the entire political life of this country, that it is the way of understanding politics as a conflict of absolutely irreconcilable blocs and without being able to communicate itself. And it's in this sense that I want to highlight some things, but before you let me tell you something. I repeat once again one more thing that is evidence at the length of these thirty years, the compromise of our group and of those that preceded us, the Group of the Unified Socialist Party of Catalonia, the Group of Initiative for Catalonia - Greens, United Left and Alternative, with the development and consolidation of the Catalan civil right. And I'm not saying that because of a question of authorities, but because maybe that's better than some of the criticism I want to make at this point. Let's see if we're able to focus on it, because until now, the advisor and also friend Jordi Orobig, cautiously, have come back to it, linked this to the issue of the Catalan Republic, linked this to the topic of the state structures. No, look, the Catalan civil law updating task is before and what happens next with the debate on the political structures of Catalonia. Having contaminated it has not helped us and, above all, has made it difficult, I think, a greater capacity of better of this text. We should have listened to the wise words of the friend Francesc Casares who just reminded us of my friend Ibarra. He made it very clear, but it was part of his very useful mindset in relation to the use of the right. It clearly stated that the adaptation of the Catalan civil right at the time the entire compilation process was being carried out was not only a question of maintenance and mummification of what the historical civil right had been, but also a question of actualization. And that does not deny it, among other things, because, if not, we could not address such important issues as the issue of the territorial custody contract, which obviously did not exist at the time when other questions were made, or we could not have updated the whole issue of the contract of contract, with a socially topical issue such as the issue of cluster discards, of which I am particularly satisfied, as a result of the transaction process. Now, that said, I think from this perspective the approach that has taken place has not really helped us. Honestly, we would have preferred another model of approximation, and it was possible – it was possible. It is not essential to give meaning to a law to believe that it has to be approached in its totality. We believe that there are no legislative areas that can live with català, especially in the area of rights and obligations, because if other books have not been conflicted and this has been, it is not because of a mania of which some call the Unionists to pose difficulties, it is because of an objective difficulty: we are talking about an area that has strong European regulation and we are talking about an area that affects economic relations, that has a great capacity for interrelationship, that requires spaces for harmonisation. And, therefore, from this point of view, this conception of believing that the book if it had to see everything, even though it was merely translated into the catalan by the honest pieces of the Spanish Civil Code, I don't think it helped us. And it hasn't helped us because... well, we can feel very pleased that we have created a summer structure, but where will this summer structure end or a part of this summer structure end? What if he ends up in one of the courthouse papers? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, yes, of course, this won't be our responsibility, but we might have done things another way. He recommended it to us at Francesc Casares, in his time, many years ago. And that's all I'm saying, because I believe that once and for all this Parliament should set its priority for the citizenship of politics, not the effect of gestures. And you constantly lose that gesture effect. Okay. I leave this criticism here. I think we might have done it another way. I think that, in addition, we should get used to everyone, also the people who continue to work on the subject of the elaboration and adaptation of the Catalan Civil Code, that there will never be any closed legislation, ever, and much less in areas that affect economic relations, obligations and contracts, that we have all European legislation, that we have courts of justice of the European Union that are constantly leaving insecure Spanish legislation in the matter of consumer rights. Therefore, it would not have been barbaric if there had been a self-limitation of execution and continued Spanish legislation to make the result a safer and more effective result. Some would have thought that we were a little distressed, that we are not brave, that we do not have enough momentum, but very likely the Catalan legislation of the Civil Code and of the citizens of Catalonia would have benefited from this other strategy, to have opted for this other option. That said, let's get into the matter. Our group has submitted a whole series of papers. We are aware that they are modest items; the text came with a very large drafting phase, came from the previous legislature, with former advisor Gordo pushing it, from this point of view, but, well, we have tried to improve the text and we appreciate that some of these items have been accepted. We want to thank Mr Jordi Orobtig very clearly and sincerely for the work he has done. He has done a job close to what a rapporteur should be, in this sense, with the ability to dial, to agree until the last moment, until yesterday, practically, with some transactional ones. And I know that if he couldn't do more, he was for this thing that sometimes happens, that it's not the legislature that controls the government, but the government that controls the legislature, especially if it's the majority group. Pass all the places, it's a shame. And also for one thing that, since the members of the compilation committee are here, I would like to say: I, God guard us to question his technical qualification and superiority from the point of view of his contribution; but, look, you have blocked some of the points that I have not just heard from us. And if we had to amend this text now to incorporate changes in the legislation of previous books – which I was just saying, I think that in relation to the empiteutical cents, they had been of very good faith, but that they had to be modified – with a certain greater capacity of porosity in their science would have been to aggravate; it would have made it easier for all of us, and especially for the friend Jordi Orobtig, with whom we could have come to more agreement if we had not been for this original block. That said, I do not understand this as a criticism, but, in any case, as a suggestion of a greater capacity for collaboration between you, scientists of the social sciences of the right, and we, to which the last word relates at the end, which as has been seen in this case has not been the last; you have decided, we have not decided. From all angles, let's say that the aspect of what I feel most disgusted is something that has already appeared here, that is of the bad legislative practice that supposes that there are significant changes in the original project – so significant that they have forced to change the title of this law, because it is no longer the law of the civil code's sisè book – to incorporate significant changes in other aspects of the civil code. It was explained that it was an attempt to make adaptations in relation to previous books that had been modified by subsequent legislation; concretely – yes, it is true – with the Law of Voluntary Jurisdiction. But let me tell the government: this was already known when the bill was presented, and it could have been incorporated at the outset and allowed us the opportunity, to the groups of the chamber, to improve, and above all to improve it not from the perspective only of our rights as parliamentarians, which we have, but also of the result. And if I highlight it, it's because if it didn't happen, it's not because there wasn't a chance, or just because, sure, there wasn't the ability to do it, it's that another time it took the effect of the gestures more than the effectiveness of the policies. He was trying to do it quickly, so quickly that he was about to stop the appearances; thanks to the coughing and the institutional well-being of the President of the Commission of Justice, former Councillor Gordó, who planted and said: "No. If there's any appearances, 'cause I want you to be like this. But you wanted to go so fast because, in short, what is wanted is another fish in the pit of the structures of the State. And that's what made it very difficult for us. Because there are things that are very reasonable, I don't have any type of inconvenience to recognize that it has significantly improved this way, the way of the emena incorporated in the end via Together for the Yes in which the initial text should be, the electoral rights of some people in a situation of disability who at these times had them restricted, and welcome to have taken advantage of. But there's a consensus on that. But, of course, for example, we've been dragged through the back door of the subject – excuse me for being clear – of the notari business, right? I mean, the possibility of placing certain elements that the courts have so far made in the mark of notary activity. Well, so, this, maybe, I don't know, I, of course, was discussing it with Mr Gallardon at the Congress of Deputies. If you have listened to your friend..., my friend and his comrade Tardà, the things that came to him about this question to the Councillor of Justice, above all because they have been incorporated many times using these legislative techniques; it is clear, if the PP does it badly and criticizes everyone, when you do it also have to allow us to say it. Because, in short, it supposes a technique that uses governments that deteriorates the legislative quality of this Parliament. And if we want to build something new, at least that is not with ancient vices; at least that you are leaving Spain all the pain you have – forgive me's irony – not copying everything you have to build something new with the same defects. Well, unfortunately, I think that's inevitable now. We wanted to stay on the positive side, because tea, and a lot, and that's why we would vote for it; otherwise, we wouldn't. I think it is a good thing that this book has been taken; that, obviously, it does not close the Catalan Civil Code, because it cannot close it, among other things, because it seeks to regulate from Catalonia the legal principles of rights and obligations, when it is something that is, at these times, so European – not to say so internationalised – is of some naivety. I would also like to see those who want to create a state close to me, from this point of view, who understand that this state close to me does not mean authority, and much less in the 21st century; I mean, above all – shared sovereignties, also within the scope of the Civil Code. Possibly, if you had this vision, today we wouldn't find ourselves with so many risks. The councillor can say, and it is true, and Juntes for the Yes: "They would have challenged us equally before the Constitutional Court for something else. Yeah, look, but I would have felt more morally empowered to criticize that. Because I have serious doubts now, because I am listening to some of the people who have not been in the process of drafting this bill, very solvent people also from the realm of the right, from the realm of notary, that we have many doubts about the ability of the Government of Catalonia to regulate some aspects. I would have liked to be able to discuss with you this fine margin that sometimes requires politics and also the right, from this point of view. Clearly, as we are all... no, not all of us, some of us are so comfortable with block conflict, finesse is something that destroys the strategy; even so, finesse and "finishes are caught up, like bridges, when there are conflicts from this block, to be the first one to jump through the air in this debate. Well, positive appreciation, I've already said that. I'm going back to saying that we could've gotten away with something. Certainly, one thing I was oblivious to: fix yourself, you are a little peculiar at the time of..., I use your words today, which I want to be fine with you, Mr. Counselor, which is that, after having changed through the Juntes reviews for the Yes aspects that affected other civil code titles, it turns out that there is one thing missing from the empiteutical cents and it has placed it in the Law of Accompanying..., forgive me, the Law of Fiscal and Administrative Measures, which I do not know what will happen to see. Listen to me, a certain quality in legislative drafting would also be more. Well, we'll vote for it, which is obvious. We will vote in favour because I believe that, in very positive respects, a good task has been carried out in general; the criticisms, from our point of view, do not store this good work, I believe, in the technical elaboration phase. I honestly believe that what has been done worse is the government, but, look, in these conditions we have to work and they have a guide; the guide, they don't get caught– state structures, the Catalan Republic, all that, is already there. I thank Jordi Orobitg, my friend Jordi Orobitg, for the work he has done. When we criticize ourselves, let me say it; when work is right, I think it is important to highlight it. And we have only tried not to do this work, modestly; our contribution has been modest. But, in truth – indeed – we felt very open for contributions like that of the French Master Casares or that of the friend Salvador Milà, who for a long time has been working in the line of our political project to make the Catalan Civil Code one of the ways to hear our society and our economic relations. Unfortunately, everything points to the fact that this law will be suspended before it comes into force; it is not our responsibility, sense of doubt. I say again: I think we might have done it another way. And if it serves for some other initiatives that the government can take [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , that I look more at the effectiveness than the non-effectiveness, therefore, will have been welcomed or benefited from this intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.205.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.206.0	Thank you to everyone you've contributed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.207.0	Next, the words of Mrs. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.208.0	Good morning, everybody. President, thank you. In the first place, Mr. Orobtig, I have to tell you... where do I have it? All right, I have to tell you that parliamentary courtesy has not been accompanied, unfortunately, by the assumption of responsibility of a government that makes a project that is engaged in suspense. That said, in the end, that of "what starts wrong, ends badly is not only a saying – it is not only a saying – in the end it is the logical consequence that to persist in error finally has very bad consequences. This draft code is born of the last legislature, a legislature where it did not give time to approve it, with an identical text that is presented here today. Two amendments were tabled in that legislature: the People's Party and the Ciutadans. In this one, there have been changes. Why have there been changes? Only one amendment has been tabled in its entirety, which has been the one that we have tabled from the People's Party. Why do we do this? For the same reasons that we did with the text of the last legislature, which is, I repeat, identical. The process has generated a certain acceleration, not only in the presentation and the beloved express approval of this book, but also in certain positions that, from the Popular Parliamentary Group, have surprised us; some, expected, and others, occurred. The waiters, the government, right? It is clear that in the last parliamentary term we warned that this text and that this book did not lead to a simplification of Catalan civil law of its own, nor did it mean an improvement in the conditions of exercise of rights of all Catalans at contractual and civil level, at all, but that it worked and was already suffering from many competing conflicts in its text, both constitutional as well as of the Statute, as well as of the Mortgage Law; that is, it was already born totally addicted. What was expected was that you would finally say what the will was to create this book. And they have said it with tremendous pride, shouting it out and crying it out to the four winds from this Faristol. The purpose of this law was, of course, to generate a state structure. Moreover, to this day they repeat it, a fact that they are grateful, therefore, because sincerity is also important in the exercise of politics. Then you have, in the end, used the alibi of your own right to generate that new state structure. The one that allows, according to the words of the councillor himself, to disconnect those legal businesses, which are by chance the most usual, which are the purchase, of Spanish legislation. A failure and an absolute break in the whole framework of economic activities between individuals and non-individuals. Therefore, that explanatory clarity of Mr Mundó and Mr Llach with regard to the true intention of this sixth book makes us, at least, to keep in that amendment the whole, accompanied, moreover, by a series of legal reasonings which we believe are essential. And it is that the text that is presented, in the end, does not develop, but puts at risk its own law and, moreover, it will create multiple problems of legal application, that is, it will generate permanent legal conflicts. It was also expected the position of the Socialist Party and Catalonia Yes it is Pot. I understand – I understand – that being identified as responsible for the stagnation, non-evolution, of Catalan civil law itself is complex. But in the face of that threat, in the face of that risk, and knowing the true intentions of this Government in the presentation of this book, I believe that you should have had the courage to make amendments to what was indeed development of your own right and to improve that wording of the text and, nevertheless, to oppose what you know and also recognize from this very Faristol that it is difficult for it to come into force because it is unconstitutional and you have very serious doubts about it, even after the Guarantee Council gives you the approval. It has been said from here that this is a step forward... this is a step forward from the Catalan civil right. And I say, where to? Head of the Constitutional Court? No new constitutional appeal? Complementary – Complementary – Catalan legislation, is this the step? In the case of Mr. Coscubiela, I'd like to say one thing. Since you have said so clearly that you still have a lot of doubts about constitutionality, I strongly ask you to vote in the exercise of responsibility on our amendments in everything you say and state with some clarity that you have doubts that it is constitutional. I encourage you, really, not to be afraid, to vote on those amendments, because I think it is important that we have a clear position on this. Those were all the reactions expected. The unexpected reaction, despite the speech we have heard here, in the Faristol, is that of Ciutadans. Among other things, because, having tabled by the same text an amendment to the whole in the last legislature, it has not done so; and, moreover, it has not voted in favour of the amendment to the whole that the People's Party presented in this very plenary session, and has not even proposed amendments that remove all that appears in the text as clearly as being likely to be suspended by the Constitutional Court on grounds of unconstitutionality. Changing one's mind is legitimate, of course; changing one's ideology, too. But leaving the positions to conveniences or not of political marketing is a risk, among other things, because we are now faced with a situation that will surely call for a new remedy vis-à-vis the Constitutional, a remedy that in the end will cause the Government, for, continue to make use of that constant victimism, and we will also find ourselves faced with a possibility of opening the fence to uncertainty and legal insecurity. I would ask that there be a rethinking of these votes and that we not abandon those Catalans who do not agree with the generation of laws that are state structures, which serve to confront, to break, to divide, but quite the contrary, to improve their daily activity... so that you do not leave these citizens to the helplessness of a new law that, far from strengthening the exercise of their rights, puts it at risk. We have, yes, taken a very committed position on what is development of our own right, and that is what I would like to say, isn't it? We have tabled a number of amendments, very few of which have been accepted, Mr Orobitg – you said at the end – because we have been admitted to some of the amendments, which from other parliamentary groups were missing or taking their hands to the head that they were not admitted, because from a technical or legal point of view they were good, and it is true that we have committed ourselves precisely to the development of this own civil right and not to the stagnation of it, neither archaic nor ancient. And we've been supporting and improving those figures, too, haven't we? So, like the contracts of conreu, the letter of grace, the raperi, the contracte d'integració... In all of this, of course, the People's Party has a clear commitment to help consolidate its own right, but never put it at risk. I believe that, from our commitment, in the end, we have placed a number of basic conditions that must be implemented in all laws that seek to modify a regulatory framework as extensive as this. And it is that, in the face of regulatory uncertainty, we have introduced deletion amendments; in the face of regulatory divergence, we have tried to harmonise; in the face of legal uncertainty and the loss of rights, we have tried to introduce clauses and amendments that give a certain degree of certainty, clauses that you considered not to improve the text and voted against them. Much has been said about the Council's opinion. Little has been said, very little has been said about the appearances that have taken place in committee. And I think it's important. Among other things, because the phrases that I am going to highlight do not say to you by the People's Party: the experts say that by mutual agreement we agreed that they would appear and give us explanations in that committee. In this regard, it has been said that there are very clear contents in this book that violate the Constitution and even the Statute of Autonomy and Mortgage Law itself. It has also been said that the sale of consumption is confused with the sale of individuals – an essential element. The sale contract has been said to be distorted, leaving the seller unsecured. It has been said – as I have told you here – that it is a field subscribed to legal conflict. It could be said, even a fellow – and attentive – who has revived the dead. This is what we have heard in the committee. And, in view of those views and in view of those warnings, there has been a refusal to modify this book in essence. A number of amendments have been introduced, and accepted, which are more style and practice and legal technique, but not content. You at the end – and I tell you as we have been warning since the first draft of the sixth book – you with this text all you want is to generate a new conflict; a new competition conflict and a new remedy of unconstitutionality before the Constitutional Court that will allow you to continue with the campaign that you started last Monday, your own electoral campaign, where the musical thread is constant victimism. You want in the end, with this text, to go deeper into the abyss you want to create, not only between Catalonia and the rest of Spain, but also with Europe. And I'll tell you why. This contractual right that you set out in this book even – even – contravenes all the previous work that is being done from the European Union to harmonize contractual law and to establish a common contractual right, which is ultimately what makes it possible to facilitate economic, social and business relations, in a world where barriers no longer exist at the level of legal business. That's exactly what they're trying to do with this book. What are we going to tell him? As we told them in the last legislature, we remain in our opinion, we do not modify it: development of our own right, yes; accomplices of the law of confrontation, conflictivity and separation, that never.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.209.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the presented emena, has the word Lord Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.210.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors..., I would not want to start this intervention without giving a fraternal hug to the three accused who have today insured as accused before the High Court of Justice; one of them, deputy of this chamber. I think that the worst thing that could happen to us as a country, as an attempt at democracy, would be that we get to normalize that it's judge those people that they do is fulfill parliamentary mandates. And, therefore, from the ideological distance, which is a lot and which is obvious, with the three people who are accused, we send them a fraternal hug from the parliamentary group, above all, we insist, because we will not normalize that these situations are produced and because we may even have to have suspected the session of this Parliament today and tomorrow, because we cannot remain impassable before judgment as there is at these times in the High Court of Justice. That said, and about our position in relation to the Civil Code and the Project of the Book if, we have already said here when we did the debate to the totality, and then in committee: we are in favour of dealing with this book if. We've facilitated, I think, enough processing and positioning in this sense of defending the project that the government handed over to the chamber. And we must say, therefore, that we – we have said it many times – any act of recovery of sovereignty, of legal sovereignty in this case, in an area such as the Catalan civil right, which has proved itself, therefore, a pioneer, an emancipator, especially..., let us say to ourselves, has advanced in areas where it has been a pioneer in the state sphere, as in the question of fact pairs, of shared custody – not just here to repeat it – so, therefore, we are in favour of this position. We are also related to the book if, therefore, because we think that it has not only made an update of historical figures, but has even gone into regulating matters that are not specifically those that, according to the constitutional division, would touch it in this chamber. We accept this as a positive gesture, as a gesture of sovereignty and as something that we like, precisely, therefore, to overwhelm constitutional landmarks and generate more legal sovereignty of this Parliament. That said, there's the look that we also like to always put on the table, right? And we think the text is overly neutral. It is overly neutral because, before an unfair coughing reality, we think that the right is invited to have a function of rebalancing unequal situations; the right cannot be..., it cannot, somehow, look at it, but the right must be above all a counter-hegemonic mechanism to transform inequalities. And, therefore, from this perspective and, for example, thinking, therefore, of the contract for the sale of such an important and essential asset as housing, to us it seemed and would seem, in this sense, that the text should have been more distressed and, therefore, has not introduced this element than we do, in some way, think that it is essential and that it is necessary in any legislative action that is made by this Parliament. Yes, it is true that a thought has been introduced that we have raised, that it is the question of the mortgages titrated or, let us say it, in some way, introduce mechanisms to stop the total cessation of saving in volving and uncontrolled markets of the mortgages that are affecting the habitats of people who live in our country and who have hard consequences afterwards, at the time of resolving the disputes that are given in the execution phase, in the phase of denunciation and all this issue. And it is certain that finally, via point 10 of the five-year final provision, Article 669/28 of the Civil Code is amended and the text, more or less, which we have raised, is introduced. It is a text that does not only respond to the visit of the CUP, it responds to a struggle of the affected people, some of them in the framework of the Platform for Mortgage Affections, of others of other spaces, who have insisted on denouncing the gravity that has been given in the question of the mortgages titles and the facets, and, therefore, it is very good that this Parliament is position at the cost of the fever, is position, somehow, trying to correct this asymmetry that is so present on the part of our political and economic system. We would have bet that we had retroactive effects, that we were more powerful, and that is why, so, there is a living thread of ours in relation to this issue, that we are already aware, in some way, that it will not go forward, but that we wanted to put it on the table, because things have been done well, but it could have been done even better. On the other hand, some opposition groups have used the concept of 'legal insecurity' and the concept of conflict. It was not clear to me, Mrs García, whether she was talking about legal conflict or social conflict; I don't know. But, in any case, we do not want to fail to pose on the table that from our position the legal uncertainty does not see the free if, it does not see what we do or defy in this chamber: it sees the problem that we have in Catalonia with the way in which the judgments and judgments that work in front of the courts in Catalonia are heard. And I think... and I've been surprised that no one has said it, but if we're honest and honest, we have to say that the Catalan courts don't apply the Catalan civil law, or they don't apply it with the force, with the completeness and with the rigour of applying the proper civil law. There are matters in which, effectively, it applies more – in succession and in family – but in the rest of the regulations of our civil law the Spanish courts in Catalonia do not comply with the law. I repeat, if they want to, because... you, that they are so much to complete laws: Spanish judgments and judgments in Catalonia do not complete the law. [[Widow's remorse.]] And the judges and judges who work in Catalonia, who work for a system of state opposition that clearly discriminates against people who come from Catalonia, do not apply the law approved for this Parliament. And the day we speak very clearly of this; but I... for me, it's not so much a fault of the concrete people who occupy this place, but that you have to see with the opposition system. And if not, tell me in which place of the oppositions for Spanish courts the topic related to the Catalan civil right appears; or tell me in which place of the oppositions of the courts exercising in Catalonia the Mallorcan civil right appears, or the civil right valence. Because from the position of the State they have a clear will to annihilate the own civilian institutions of the Catalan countries and the rest of the peoples living in the Spanish State. And not only that, there is not only this bias, let's say, unionist and centralizing view of the Spanish State, but also there is a problem regarding the confluence between civil rights and administered rights. That is to say, we have a difficult problem when this Parliament makes a law of access to housing, a law of right to very good housing, the year 2007, and then, when we try this law to apply in front of Spanish courts in Catalonia, there is no way that this law applies, because civil courts understand that, as administrative regulations, administrative regulations do not bind them to the time of ending a denunciation. And, therefore, we have a problem; in this separation that is caused by the civil right and the one that affects the administered right, we have a difficult problem, because then it turns out that at the time of settling on a denunciation it only affects or it is only valid or it is only obligatory to compliment on what regulates the civil right. So, we have a double look, don't we? , a Spanish-speaking and a class-based, as always: the rules that protect consumers do not apply to Spanish courts. I think that's what we've got going on, I think it's a debate that we have to face, and so, then, we'd like that, too, wouldn't we? In the wake of these debates we have about the book, why not? , face with serenity and honesty what happens in the application of the Catalan civil and administrative law before the Spanish courts in Catalonia. And, finally, there is one aspect in which we disagree a lot of how we have worked in this book, and I find it especially hard, and therefore, you do not have to see with a question of courtesy, which obviously the Government has been very short at the time of talking about this issue, or the rapporteur has been very exquisite and attentive, but you have to see with a political question, with a question of precisely how to deal with lobby pressures and whether or not we give in to lobby pressures. And, therefore, in particular to the People's Unity Candidacy that we cannot give our two votes in favour of the book yes, despite the fact that we share philosophy, despite the fact that we share the need for legal sovereignty, despite the fact that we share everything that we have already said in this and in other interventions, precisely because through the ideas that come together for the Yes of the hand of the codification committee, it is intended..., is privatising part of our system of justice. And why do we say she's private? So, because various processes linked to the right successors are given exclusively to process them to the notaries and notaries of Catalonia. We have a very critical position on the role of the notary in this country, and I think it is socially enough shared. There was a responsibility, as in the least by omission, for notaries and notaries to guarantee the rights of the citizens at the time of signing mortgage contracts..., which seems to me to be obvious and obvious, that people signed mortgage contracts that they didn't know what they were signing, that they signed clauses that they didn't know what they were signing, there were people who signed mortgages until they didn't understand the language in which the mortgage writing was written, and the notaries and notaries covered their eyes. And they covered their eyes to benefit the bank. And until there is a certain self-criticism and a certain recognition of his responsibility in the housing crisis in this country, we cannot trust the notaries and notaries – first. [[Greetings.]] But even if we did trust them, we'd be in a dual system, that's to say that we're leaving... who we want to process these dispatchers in front of the notaries and who we can or want to do it in front of the Justice Administration. But the Government, at the request of the Codifying Commission.... and, in this sense, I want to ask whether this Codifying Commission in which the interests and representatives of Catalonia's notaries have been present... – not of the mortgage sufferers, it is obvious –, whether this Codifying Commission works for public interest or works to protect certain lobbyists. And the government, and the majority group that gives support to the government, if it works for public interests, for collective interests, or works to yield to the interests of a lobby. Our understanding is a lot of read, which has been done, because I repeat that we were willing to let the notaries have this faculty but it was shared with the courts. And you insisted that you were exclusive to the notari. And that's very hard for us, because I insist that it causes us not to vote for this issue, that it's transcendental, that it's model and above all it's attitude, attitude before the elites, before those who pressure, before the lobby. And in favor of protecting the public and collective interests... that we will have to vote against. And that's why we asked for a separate vote. And I'd also like to know who the other groups in the chamber are helping the government in this sense to push forward the notarial business. I'm done. We are clear that any step we take to develop our civil rights is a step in favour of sovereignty, a step towards leaving the New Plant Decree without effect, to leave the Franco occupation without effect when it entered Barcelona, Valencia or Menorca. Because, moreover, curiously, the story of our civil right cannot be disconnected from the story of the struggle for freedom, not only national, but from the struggle for the emancipation of the men and women who live in our country. The fight for the Catalan civil right cannot be disconnected from the fight for contracts of dead reduction; from the fight for the existence of the pairs of facts and their recognition, which after the Spanish Constitutional Court, in the seventh revocation, has left no widow's pensions. Because in this dialectic between the demophobic Constitutional Court and the regressor... the Catalan civil right has had an emancipatory and transformative role. And, therefore, he has us at his side, and we defend him as long as we need him. Curiously, she is a woman in this country, as in so many other things, a contradictory situation, unlike that of other Western European countries. In most Western European countries, civil law is called upon to have a conservative function, a function of protection of institutions, and in our country, civil law has an emancipation function, a function of change. And, therefore, this contradiction we like, live and share. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.211.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Then, to fix his position, has the word Lord Jordi Orobig, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.212.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. I will try to contribute to the speed of the debate, due to the unforeseen circumstances of this morning. In any case, I want to thank all the spokespersons, and not so, logically... obviously, I have to show that I do not share the contents that some of them have expressed. For what do you do, in this case, to the spokesman of the Popular Unity Candidate, with an annex that you have jointly made, if I do not recall poorly, with Mr Coscubiela, for what part of the Joint Parliamentary Group's message for Yes that you have to see with the voluntary jurisdiction, and therefore with the extension of the functions that the notaries come to end in this area, because I want to remember that the legislation already provides for the protocol's task in this case of the wills, and in this case what we do is to extend the task to the adversity, I deny the last words that we have heard, do not believe that it is working for the interest of the collection determined, in any case, that it is possible for us to work in many ways in the context that we have not been able to understand? In this case, I believe that we contribute to its agility, and this is not in contradiction with the search for mechanisms that allow moderation of the costs that are inherent in this public service, because, in the end, notaries do not fail to provide a public service either. And this solution that has been worked out many times, if we talk about lobbying or collegiate work, we probably think it's to the detriment of other legal operators that many times they have involvement in these tasks, as they can be lawyers and prosecutors, and that logically they also deserve some inherent costs of this service that probably are higher than those that are closest to a ring that has been taxed, right? As far as Mrs. Hope Garcia is concerned, she has done a lot of work to make the People's Party see that it is the main guarantor of legality, and so it has well defended the validity of Murphy's law, and I think she has expressed it badly, because, in this case, and contradict it, it has not started badly nor will it end badly; it has started very well and will end better, huh? I think that, obviously in the interest of our country, this has to end better than it started. There is no discrimination because of who formulated the papers. We have always been interested in the subject that we found ourselves with a very technical standard, that any alteration of the text required legal validation. And, I insist, if you have distinguished yourselves in the process of making contributions of some kind, you have been to present a volume of immaterial suppression, which logically contrasts, is irreconcilable, from the point of view of competition, with what you see defending not only in this case from the Group of Joints for the Yes, which is what supports the Government, but for the majority of the House. I think that most of the parliamentary groups have expressed themselves from the point of view of hearing that Catalonia's civil law cannot be that instant in the time it took, huh? And that, therefore, cannot be subject to..., because, of course, here it seems that 1714 the Catalans did not buy or come; it seems that only the Castilians did. Listen to me, I think we have a full and normal society, which normally brings to an end all the tasks and activities of any modern society, and it is logical that, in using these faculties of our historical tradition, of our legal institutions and of the will of our country, we have the legal instruments that give us answers. Clearly, you have made a series of questions that respect the competition that contrast deeply with the reflections made by the Council of State Guarantees when responding to the request for an opinion requested by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. It is not true, but it may be certain that some of you have been proposed, and perhaps with a determined ideological component, that the text that is being submitted to Parliament's approval involves causes of unconstitutionality or that violates the very Statute, but what is certain is that this chamber counts with an instrument, that it is the Council of State Guarantees, that it is the one that determines in its parliament whether the procedures, if the standards, violate this type..., is the Spanish Constitution, is the State of Catalonia, is the same as the Rules of Parliament. And the point is that this opinion, in its conclusions, is a good one, and I will refer to it when, in this case, we talk about the intervention of the citizen group spokesman. As far as Mr Coscubala is concerned, from the Group of Catalonia, yes, I can, listen, honestly I have bothered and everything, for his flowers, I must say, but I am very grateful to him. I believe that we have been able to maintain a frank and sincere relationship, that we have worked very hard, and especially you, and that the fact that so many elements of your parliamentary group have been incorporated does not obey a special preference for you, does not obey a special preference for your group, obeys – obeys – this ingenious work, this intercommunication, this flow of information between us that has made possible, because you have insisted very much, that some of your statements come from. Probably, if some of the spokespersons who were here today were complaining that they didn't stick together, their papers, had persevered as you did, we would probably have found ourselves with an equal result of satisfaction and would find ourselves in the texture of pleasing the many praises that I think we are doing, because you, logically, and so I say, have worked very actively in the yes of the pose so that you can get back to your proposals. Well, to Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra, I would like to thank her in any case for her intervention. You say we didn't seek consensus, and I think I've forgotten what I just said. We have had the ability to work with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and its spokesman actively to include many of their proposals. And I think it is that you were very quickly discouraged, because, as Mr Benet Salellas has rightly said, we came to an initial agreement that is very important for the overall text; it is obvious that with the thought that we were going to introduce there was this discrepancy, a discrepancy, from the ideological point of view important, but what is certain is that this discouragement has led you, perhaps, not to persevere as other parliamentary groups have persevered in trying to bring their proposals forward. And, logically, if the parliamentary group that costs the Government, which has a proposal that sees in the form of a draft law from the Government, already has enough backing to pull this project forward, logically it will not spend more time than it needs to try to find other consensuses; consensuses that, I insist, are proactive. I..., my task as the rapporteur has been to look to find the maximum consensus with everyone, but this is a two-way street. You must also be very proactive, very insistent, to see that you can accept your requests. And finally, and referring to the intervention of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, of course, you, Mr Espejo, have started saying: "No, of course, you..., this law..., this involves a burdened mark. I think the problem you have is that you don't accept diversity, huh? By his birth, by his origin, by how he promoted the birth of Ciutadans, we knew they didn't respect, huh? , which did not accept linguistic diversity. But I think now it's palmari, they've already shown it in the last legislature, presenting a statement to the totality of the bill. But I think it's that, besides, they haven't acted honestly and honestly, huh? And I'm telling you so clearly. Because you're right, Mrs. Esperanza García, you're right, you're right. The position you've followed in the length of this time was for presenting a whole question to the whole when the whole debate was made. You wanted to take on a centrality role, aspiring to capture votes I don't know from which Catalan centerright, showing a moderate image, and you tried to soften the shapes, but the contents are the same, and that's what you call dishonest, huh? We understand that it is not possible for the Parliament of Catalonia to have the capacity or competence or its citizens, who are the ones who are listening to us, to be able to regulate their own civil rights, that is, to present a message of suppression, as requested in this case by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and defended or defended Mrs Esperanza García in her day. But it's more like, in this fake you also told us that the statutory guarantee board agrees with you. Listen, that's not true, because the Council of State Guarantees has submitted some conclusions to the request for an opinion that you asked for and a very extensive opinion, if I don't recall correctly, of one hundred and two pages, and I have read them. Listen, when I..., and I, have read them, I come to the conclusion that the transcript that you have expressed to us is the transcript that is ugly in the opinion of the request of your parliamentary group. But what is certain is that in the three conclusions of the Council of State Guarantees it determines the absolute clarity of the text that results, of the text that is being put to the vote and that we hope that you will happily pull forward, and that, therefore, it is not enough to be because you barricade in a certain way, you imprison a proper institution such as that of Parliament saying that, in a rather honest way, you have gathered your petitions into the body of the opinion and perverted them into your conclusions, because that would also be to treat a parliamentary institution as corrupt, which I think you do not deserve, right? In short, thank everyone for their contributions. No one will bring us the happiness of this moment. I'm with the counselor: it's a very happy time for all those of us who regard our country's right. That the political adjectives and the florists that we all pose to the standards may be..., they may be politicized, but what is certain is that the civil right is civil right for the left, for the right and for all the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.213.0	Thank you, Mr. Orobtig. We're calling it a vote. We shall begin with the votes on the reserved items, which are ordered by parliamentary groups, and we shall finally vote on the final text of the opinion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.214.0	Let's say, for explanation of voting intent. Many, very briefly, because there have been some Members and Members who have asked me to do so, and therefore make it clear that the point relating to the exclusive termination of notaries of certain judicial proceedings is paragraph 32 of paragraph 6 of the voting guide. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.215.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] Mr. Salellas, I would like to point out that what you said is in the fourth additional order, which is voted separately... [[Someone said, "Final.]] At the end of the fourth order, which is voted separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.216.0	Yes, which is voted separately and which in the voting guide is corresponding, at the point..., in point 6, at point 32. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, he's been...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.217.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.218.0	Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no..., if not..., that's to say, I'd like you to be clear, and, if not, I'll ask for the reading and say specifically what the point is. I wouldn't want you to doubt this, would I? And, in any case, the Bureau will inform us at what point in time it will proceed to vote on it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.219.0	The voting point is: final provision 4th. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what we say. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Final disposition fourth, which is voted separately. Okay? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.220.0	So, Madam President, will you tell us when you will proceed to vote on this fourth provision? Or do you tell me the point of the voting guide where you are?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.221.0	It is that when we go to vote, I will say: "Let us go to vote on the fourth final provision.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.222.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.223.0	Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start the vote. In principle, we will vote on the... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.224.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.225.0	... why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.226.0	To ask for a separate vote at the sitting, vote on the remainder of the opinion, and, apart from the technical question. Or go on, vote on the technical issue for one band and the rest of the opinion for another. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.227.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.228.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.229.0	It's already incorporated. Thank you. We shall now proceed to the vote on the opinions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. As far as we have separate votes, we shall vote in the first place on items 5, 7, 8 and 10. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour and 106 against. We will continue to vote for the item number 12. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 41 votes to 79, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 23. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 41 votes to 90, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 29, 83, 110 and 134. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 47. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 25 votes to 96, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 61st. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 85th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 80 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the 90s and 133s. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 98, with 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 92 puzzle. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 41 votes to 81, with 9 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposals. As we have also had requests for separate votes, we are voting, first of all, on items 61 and 102. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgave... – he forgave –: 6 and 102. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 105, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on items 14, 15, 17, 58, 112 and 114. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 105, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on the motions number 56, 84, 97, 101, 118 and 202. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 26 votes in favour, 104 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 105th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 176, 190 and 198. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 9 abstentions. We will then vote for the 179, 180 and 181 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 96, with 19 abstentions. We will then vote on the opinions of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. As long as we also have separate ballot petitions, we vote, in the first place, the number 16. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 80 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 19. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 26 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 25th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the number 53, 78 and 103. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 10 votes in favour, 121 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on issues number 59, 107 and 115. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 26 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 91, as 132_was traded. We're voting for Emena number 91. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the item 116. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 104 against and 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the issue number 177. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 35 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the item number 191. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 96, with 9 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the parliamentary group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We shall vote, first of all, on the reserved items 3 and 18. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 97. Then we'll vote for the 108th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 119th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 19 votes in favour, 112 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 120th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 9 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on items 123, 126 and 130. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the rest of the items of the People's Party of Catalonia. What do you say, the sip or not? It's all right, it's all right. [[Pause.]] All right, then. We vote for the rest of the items of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 9 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the papers of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. We'll start by voting for item 196. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 20 votes in favour, 111 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the text of the transaction with the 132 issue of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. The vote's on. The draft resolution was adopted by 92 votes to two, with 36 abstentions. We shall then vote on the text of the opinion. First of all, let us vote on Article 1 of the opinion, and let us vote on Article 1 of the opinion. The vote begins. Article 1 of the opinion was adopted by 117 votes to nine, with five abstentions. We will then vote on the following articles: 2, 621.64, 623.64, 623.1, 623.32, 623.32, 623.5, 623.66, 623.7, 623.7, 623.14, 623.14, 623.16, 623.17, 623.16, 623.17, 623.18, 623.32, 623.33, 623.33, 623.33, 623.34, 624.34, 624.5, 625.2, 625.3, 625.6, 626.4, 626.4, 622.6; Article 8, transitional provisions second, third, fourth, fifth, sisena, derogatory provision, final provisions first, second, third; 621.49, section 1. The vote's on. The statements were approved by 101 votes to 30. We will then vote on items 621.1, 621.3 [[Funnel veils]] ...forgive me,forgive me. We shall then proceed to the vote on Rules 621.1, 621.3, 621.4, 621.6 to 621.26 and 621.29 to 621.44. The vote's on. The articles were approved by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We shall now vote on Rule 621.2. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.230.0	We had a block of articles, which seems to have jumped some of them, and we don't have them under control. We would like to know what articles have jumped from this first block that went from 621.1 to 621.44. [[Pause. Someone says, "They're at the end.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.231.0	Yes, Mr. Rodriguez, they're at the end, we'll vote for them separately. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] They are: 621.2, 621.5, 621.27 and 621.28. [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Yes, they were grouped together, but they asked for separate votes and now we will all vote separately: 621.5, 621.27, 621.28. Okay? [[Pause.]] Let's repeat the 621.2 vote... so now we're going to vote on 621.2, okay? - 621.2. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 76 votes to 50, with five abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 621.5. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 76 votes to 50, with five abstentions. We will then vote on Rule 621.27. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 75 votes to 50, with 5 abstentions. We shall then vote on Rule 621.28. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 76 votes to 50, with five abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 621.44. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 76 votes to 50, with five abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 62.145. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 621.46. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 621.49. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 117 votes to nine, with five abstentions. We shall continue to vote on Rule 621.54 until Rule 621.54. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 2 of Article 621.56. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 76 votes in favour, 50 against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on Article 621.57. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We will continue to vote on Rule 621.59. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 117 votes to nine, with five abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 2 of Article 621.60. The vote begins. The party was approved by 126 votes in favour, against and five abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 621.2. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 6, with 30 abstentions. We now vote on Articles 621.61 and 621.62. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 116 votes to 9, with 5 abstentions. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.232.0	In relation to the previous vote on 621.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.233.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.234.0	How it is a vote that has been duplicated because this article had already been voted on, at least as I have seen that on the part of our group there were some Members who have not voted, expressing that the vote, for us, the valid vote was the first vote on this article.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.235.0	Okay. Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Keep going. We now vote on Rule 621.63. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 117 votes to 14, with 14 abstentions. Next, we will vote on Rule 621.66. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 1 of Article 623.8. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. Next, we now vote on paragraph 1 of Rule 623.13. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 92 votes to 8, with 31 abstentions. Next, we vote on Article 623.19. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. Next, we will vote on paragraph 2 of Rule 623.20. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. We now vote on Articles 623.24 to 623.26. The vote's on. The articles were approved by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 4 of Article 623.27. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 117 votes in favour, 9 against and 5 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 2 of Article 623.30. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 4 of Article 623.33. The apartment was approved by 117 votes to 9, with 5 abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 3 of Article 623.35. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 117 votes in favour, 9 against and 5 abstentions. Next, we will vote on Articles 624.8 to 624.11. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. We now vote on the first transitional arrangement. The vote begins. The first transitional provision was adopted by 92 votes to 34, with 5 abstentions. Next, we will vote on the fourth final order. The vote begins. The fourth final provision was adopted by 69 votes to 21, with 41 abstentions. We shall now vote on the ninth final provision on the entry into force of the law, incorporating the technical dimension that has been signed for all parliamentary groups. We shall now vote on the fourth final provision, concerning the entry into force of the law, without incorporating the technical point, because the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group asks that we vote later, okay? [[José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Mirror.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.236.0	Thank you, President. I don't know if I have the voting guide that I don't have the update, but I do have to vote on the rest of the text of the opinion with the built-in technical theme, and what I asked for is that the technical theme is voted on separately. However, point 7 of the guide states: 'The remainder of the text of the opinion was voted on. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.237.0	We shall now vote on the ninth final provision on the entry into force of the law, incorporating the technical dimension that has been signed for all parliamentary groups. Okay? - Okay? [[Pause.]] All right, then. The vote begins. The final 9th technical clause was adopted by 126 votes in favour, against and five abstentions. Finally, we will vote on the rest of the text of the opinion, which includes the preamble. The vote begins. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] We're holding the vote. Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.238.0	He said I'd include the preamble. It is clear to me that the preamble is voted separately. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.239.0	All right, then. We will vote first on the preamble and then vote on the rest of the opinion, okay? The preamble vote begins. The Preamble was approved by 92 votes to 9, with 30 abstentions. We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The draft law amending the book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, relating to obligations and contracts, was approved by 101 votes in favour, 25 against and 5 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Asking the Government about actions to prepare for a possible secession]] [[300-00121/11]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on the steps taken to prepare for a possible secession presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Ferran Pedret has the word. Let's resume the session at four o'clock in the afternoon. [[Remorse from Veus.]] No, we're doing this question now, but I'm warning you, so let's know, we'll resume the session at four o'clock in the afternoon. Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence because we have to continue with the session. Mr. Pedret, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.240.0	Thank you, President. If we are to avoid any hypoglycemia from any Member, then it will be a good thing. Look, maybe after the debate about the Civil Code's book, there was a chance to segregate the session that had been a little agitated in the morning. That is why, with all the serenity and also with all the sincerity, I would like to come out with some rhetorical resources that have been employed at the length of the morning session. In the first place, we are concerned by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, that another time this visit was made by a patrimonialist from the country or democracy that consists of conceiving it only as a defence and, therefore, claiming to the rest an adherence to its postulates or, contrivedly, classifying them as evil democrats or few democrats. Secondly, we are concerned and want to say that it has been done that some sectors of the media in this country do, and do very poorly, that it is to make certain lists of judgments according to their ideology, to label it to some of the groups as if they have some responsibility for this matter when it is not so. We have not been shaken by the sight, the pulse, or the hand at any time at the time to denounce the action, for example, of Mr De Alfonso and the Minister of the Interior, of whom we have demanded, and in one case, because we can, we have collected his cessation. If the evidence that was published in his day in the newspapers had been obtained in another way he would probably have given another father and would not have filed the performances. Anyway, we're serious. This is serious, it is serious about the insults and threats that members of the CUP have to make to the social media to express their opinion, President Puigdemont, Mr Boada to expose their ideas in a television program, etc. And the attacks, let's say, with paint or whatever against them, follow the independent left, the PDECAT, the PSC, the Ciutadans or whoever it is. Fortunately, all this doesn't represent us, does it? It does not represent us as the country, it does not represent us as parliamentary groups, and we should seek, in the measure of our responsibility, to contribute to this not passing and not to throw us away - as if, let us say, it was the responsibility of some of the groups that are in this chamber. But that can't make us less demanding with the government that we have the obligation to control, and that's what we're trying to do with this. Miri, why are we questioning the government's actions to prepare for a possible secession? Because we want to know what the government is doing in a matter as transcendent and delicate as this and which, moreover, has placed in the center of its government action in this mandate and – probably, we could also agree – in the past. And so do we, because so far we haven't got an answer. We, in May 2016, asked the Government about the measures that are being put into effect to start the creation of an independent Catalan state; about the measures to prepare the basis for a future Catalan constitution; about the existence of some articulated draft law; about the existence of some articulated draft law; about the existence of some articulated draft law; about the existence of some articulated draft law; about the continuity of relations with the Spanish jurisdiction; about the completion of the standards approved for the General Courts in matters of state competence; about the political institution with which the Government wishes to negotiate for the creation of the Catalan law; about the completion of the standards approved for the General Courts in matters of state competence; about the political institution with which the government wishes to negotiate for the purposes of the Catalan constitution; about the completion of the rules approved for the General Courts in matters of government competence; about the political institution with which the government wishes to conclude the agreement on the establishment of the Catalan parliament; about the conclusion of the mandate of the European Parliament; And for all the answers, as for all the answers, it is said that they would act – and it is said this by writing – under the basic principles of legal certainty and the guarantee of democratic approval in the making of decisions. Well, we may agree that this is an overly succinct response that we asked for. We also asked them to provide us with documentation regarding the preparation of a possible secession. And we formulated them in such broad terms as: "It is necessary to have all the documentation relating to any task carried out by the Government of the Government at the Institute for the Study of Self-Government or to any other body, foundation or association, or to any subject to which it has been directed, of reports relating to the eventuality of a secession of Catalonia in respect of the remainder of Spain, its preparatory acts or its execution, its possible consequences in any field, whether the requirement of the task is only partially or tangentially related to this matter, and its scope is more extensive or related. It is also requested to have any report, study, preliminary study, contingency plan or other documents drawn up for any public or private body in response to the concerns raised. And as the full answer is to say that the functions of advisory to the Government do not necessarily involve the elaboration of written documentation and that the eventuality of the creation of an independent Catalan state will attempt to be mutually agreed with the Spanish State and following the procedures legally provided, and remains conditioned to a citizen validation. Frankly, a disappointing response, because it does not make the information that had been requested quite easy. The question is, haven't all these studies, contingency plans taken care of...? Is there no advice in the matter? Don't they have it or simply don't they want to make it easier for us? The last would be hard, very hard, I'd say. The first would be, for the head down, curios. They tell us that the birth of the new state is to play with sayings, they promise that they have everything to do, at least they do so in the conferences they make for the territory, and when we deport them we ask for a realization respect for that they lower the thing from the unborn to the concepturus, and here we all stay without knowing much what the government is doing in preparation for this eventual secession. Is he still on the march and in preparation for any eventuality or not? Because we also asked them if they had reports for the eventuality of a unilateral reference for independence. And the answer was still more concise, and in this case concrete, they said to us: "No, no reports have been taken care of. We do not have reports that respect this eventuality. So, we see them, frankly, very sure they can do it, so they don't have this advice. Therefore, we ask you that Parliament may have all this information on what the Government is doing. I can't ask them what they're not doing, because it would be a very long list – this government's and anyone's, huh? , always – but of what is being done in this matter. But let's go back to the answer, which is certainly scarce, that they gave us. They would try to do so by mutual agreement with the State, following legal procedures, and that the decision would remain conditional on a citizen's validation. This seems a little incompatible with the round statement that it is going to do or refer or refer, and it seems even more incompatible with recent statements of spokespersons of the formation that it supports the Government, referring to the character of the law of transitoryity as the declaration of independence, which, moreover, cannot be challenged. Then, the reference, what are we going to do about it? Shall we do proforma? Will we do about a decision already taken? About a fact to complete? It seems, certainly, incompatible with what is expected in the written answer. It has had a little more luck Catalonia Yes, it is Pot in a request for information that it made them about a document, a report from the Institute of Self-Government Studies that is said A reference granted on the independence of Catalonia. Some legal clauses for a hypothetical political negotiation. They facilitated this report, which, on the other hand, when they did so, so it was already published on the Institute's website, and, beyond the view that it deserves to be reported to us in its entirety, has a rather interesting passage, under the third heading, entitled‘Compatibility of the reference with the continuation of the process, we say, at the end of the day: ‘Now, it seems reasonable to accept that such preparation, in view of a state offer of legal and negotiated reference, should be more scrupulously respectful of legality, than in a context of non-referendum granted– allow me to add to the context. Clear, let's say it, all right. And if that's not the context in which to be scrupulously within the law, in other contexts, have they advised you that you don't need to be so curious? This, of course, concerns us, and that is why we ask him for an answer, on this first return, Mrs. Munté. Certainly, it would be very reassuring for everyone I could do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.241.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.242.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, Councillor... Mr Member, you have begun this inquiry expressing your concern, I say, about the rhetorical resources that have been used today and for which you have also appointed a heritageist view of the term, of the concept of democracy. In this second aspect, however, let me also, rhetorically, ask you what kind of recourse you are using today to make an inquiry into these characteristics; however, as we have always defended from Juntes per el Si, from other parliamentary groups, it is obvious that in this Parliament, in this Chamber, we must be able to speak of everything. But in any case, here you refer to different aspects that you have touched upon, but making it clear that the information that you have requested through the different means available to you as a Member of this House, has been answered in your joint. Another thing is that you are pursuing another type of information, or another type of assertion, such as today's case, with this inquiry, but answered it, and you made reference to a report from the Institute of Self-Government Studies that says many more things than you mentioned here. It must be, surely, for lack of time, and that, as you have also recognized, is stuck to the web page and, therefore, is knowledge of absolutely everyone. You have also expressed concern and interest that the process that eventually leads us to the creation of a state, an independent state, is completed with full guarantees and within a legal framework. We fully agree on this point. It's exactly what we're asking for, and it's exactly on this line and on this playground that we're working on. The evidence has it, in order to find a recent example..., then I will go a little back because it is obvious that today we also have to talk about the changes in orientation and position that your parliamentary group and its political formation has experienced over time, because they are very accused, but let's give it a very recent example, in the manifesto that last week agreed the National Referendum Pact, based on the document that the implementing committee drew up of this pact – a committee that certainly holds a former socialist deputy here in the Parliament of Catalonia, Mr Joan Ignasi Elena, a document that advocates to seek an agreement with the State and to hold a referendum. Because we understand that this is a democratic deepening tool, which allows for political debate, consensus-building, successful agreements, citizen participation, being shouted at the ballot box – so that some do so much and so much for – and a result that is obviously binding on everyone. And, what is the idea, and who endorses this concept of reference? So, a parliamentary majority that exists in this chamber, and a social majority that we could decipher in more than 80_per_cent. A reference that, if possible, we want to grant, because we understand that it is perfectly possible to realize this reference, because it is a matter of political will – of political will –, Mr. MP, and not of legality. It is, in short, a question of finding democratic solutions to existing political problems, not of making those that already exist or of creating them from us. And I assure you that there is no intention of patrimonizing that, in fact, if it is someone's property, it must be everyone's, as is the case with democracy, participation and deepening with fully legitimate elements of this democracy. It happens, therefore, in Catalonia, that there is this majority, that it is social and that it is parliamentary, in favour of a referendum, that we consider that it is voting how these questions can be resolved. We're talking about this, Mr. Congressman, and the rhetorical question, if I may, that I would put it to you, is: what are you for? If we ask that the citizens of Catalonia can decide democratically and freely their future policy, that we are puzzled before the trial that is taking place this week in the High Court of Justice or if you are with those who deny this democratic right and bring to court the people who work to deepen the democracy of this country. Mr. Iceta, the president of his parliamentary group, said earlier that any democratic country in the world, if an institution does not reach the resolutions of its Constitutional Court, sooner or later it ends up in the courts. And he also said: "I can't cite examples because there are few governments that skip the law. What I can say, honourable Member, is that this government does not skip the law – this government does not skip the law. But also, and in the same way, there is no government of the world that is judged to put the ballot boxes, which, in change, unfortunately, does happen at the level of the Spanish State. I suppose here it is a matter of being able to talk about how we manage, how we in the government are responsible for responding to what parliamentary mandates are and to the demands of a large majority of citizens and citizens. I suppose that's what this is about and that's what you want me to talk about today. And the same way we've done with the answers to the questions that you mentioned before and that you've addressed to the government, so we can do it today without any problem. I will need to make reference, perhaps in an identical way and with the same terms, to the answers we have given to him, because this is the answer, the only one that exists, and that even felt here, in his parliamentary office. And President Puigdemont has done so, for example, in the debate on the question of trust, in the sense that if the transit to a possible independent state is produced, this will be done in the only way that it can be done: in an orderly manner, with guarantees of legal certainty, of economic viability of the new state, of sustainability of public accounts, of continuity of social services and of everything that you have to see with public services that are close to a welfare state with which we want to preserve and, if possible – and I am sure that it is possible – to improve it. Therefore, with full legal guarantees, full democratic guarantees and, yes, you have quoted it literally, with the need for citizen validation in order to be able to go from the polls to the polls. And the clearest and most acceptable mechanism here and there, in order to make this possible, is a reference, Mr. MP, if possible, a reference granted to the State. And it is clear that we need to talk about the structures that are needed; state structures that are needed to hold the maximum and most powerful tools to respond to the needs of our citizens. You serve the people the best. It would be irresponsible not to think about it, not to talk about it, not to predict who these scenes are and who these structures are. I also remember... I told him I'd go back and I'll look at him doing what I'm left with now, and then I'll come back. I told you that we come from the moon, we come from a lot of the moon, and I know that you know perfectly well what the timeline was, that you don't always have to be pleasant to remember from your position, coming from that incomplete promise to respect the referendum, the result of the referendum on the Statute of Catalonia that you emerged from this Parliament. We come from a sense that detailed the state of autonomy that he approved by referring our people. We come from mass demonstrations, the first of them on July 10, 2010, presided over by the student president Montilla, under the motto "We are a nation. We decide. We come from a 2012 election, where the parties that defended the holding of a consultation to decide the future politics of Catalonia get 107 escons of the 135 that are in this chamber, and you were among these 107 deputies. There was because his electoral program is committed to promoting, he said, literally, "the reforms necessary because Catalonia can exercise the right to decide through a reference or consultation granted in the mark of legality. And this under a heading that said: "A reference for Catalans and Catalans to decide – a reference for Catalans and Catalans to decide. You were here, fixi's. Who saw them, Mr. Congressman, and who sees them. From here, the approval of the declaration of sovereignty; the proposal of its own parliamentary group, so as to once again urge the Government of the Generality to initiate a dialogue with the Government of the State to make possible the holding of a consultation on the future of Catalonia. You were here absolutely. After the outcome of that session at the Congress of Deputies, where the proposal that was made from Catalonia obtained a negative extension of the Congress, also negative of the MPs of the PSOE and the Socialist Party. Mr. Miquel Iceta, July 2014 insisted: "The PSOE does not want the consultation, we do – the PSOE does not want the consultation, we do. I, from here, the participatory process of 9 November. Its consequences, despite being absolutely discredited that day and ridiculed by many, but it has had some consequences that we are living this week. After that, I'll need to refer to it. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Anyway, Congressman, I'm done... at these times I'm running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.243.0	Yes, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.244.0	I would like to remind you that you have had occasion to ask as much as you have asked in your own Parliament, in the corresponding committees...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.245.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but, yes, they've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.246.0	... – very well – and I can continue to do so, too, of course, in the next round. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.247.0	Mr. Pedret, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.248.0	Thank you, President. Let's see, let's go to pams. In the first place, what rhetorical recourse do I use? Talk, let's say, that's what I did. I don't think you've made excessive watermarks with rhetoric today; I don't know if I can handle it, but in any case, I don't think you've made excessive watermarks today. Secondly, I can ask and I have done it, and I can ask for information and I have done it. And I can ask and I'm doing it, but I'm still getting the exact exact answer, which is that there's the report that you've published on the website of the Institute of Self-Government Studies, a few others that we could follow, both from the National Transitional Council and from the Institute of Self-Government Studies and that, for the rest of the questions we asked, there's nothing. And I look forward to reading the literality of the information request we made, which provided every report, as far as possible, to the Institute of Self-Government Studies, to any other institution, in preparation for any eventuality related to secession, its consequences, the transition from one situation to another, etc. And tell me that I have to go back to the answer they gave me in writing, which is that all this doesn't exist. Then, it leaves a worrying picture, because, finally, it appears that all of this you want to keep saying, in September, and everything else is being studied, and you have not been advised to respect the matter, etc. Then, on the basis of what do you say that transit will be done with full legal guarantees, with respect to everyone's rights, which will be from the ballot box to the ballot box, from the law to the law, etc.? Based on what? The band I had to make an act of faith. I'm asking you: "Don't give me any more reports that you've already been asking to be able to assert this with this comfort of hope that you've been demonstrating all day. Don't ask much more than that, huh? And, look, I'm asking you, please, that we don't run away from studying when you ask her about these questions. Because you can do us all here, let's just say... I don't know what I'm gonna say... all the toilets you want. It is a parliamentary appeal that we all do not abuse very much. I'm sure we have our contradictions, but they're not exactly where they are, are they? We have said, from the beginning, that the political situation in Catalonia requires an equally political outcome, in democratic terms, that it happens because the citizens of Catalonia are manifesting themselves about their future collective policy. It's more: agree... – it's not that there are advisors and advisors here, but there's one side to it–, agree with Mr. Romeva, that the other day I do the honor of quoting my work, a brochure, about this issue, which is very recently published for the Rafael Campalans Foundation, so, for the party, huh? And that's contradicted by what you're trying to get me back. They don't do that because in the background, in the absence of a reference, we want two. Miri, we want one on the reform of the Constitution, which we want to transform Spain into a democratic and social federation, and we want a new statute of Catalonia, which could well give birth to a Catalan state, federated with the rest of Spain. Therefore, let's say, when you ask us: "What are they for? We are on the side that people can pronounce on their future policy, obviously. What happens is that this does not mean to endorse any form, way, that you try to make them pronounce on what you, with all legitimacy, are interested in being pronounced. Doesn't it mean that we can back it all up because we have this political position, or is it that you suddenly pretended to go back to what I remember in principle, which is to call evil democrats who don't agree with the path you have chosen? Listen, what we have also said to you in various parliamentary debates is that the democratic consensus is quite fragile, that requires a large majority of citizens to recognize that their institutions are once legitimate and representative, and that the way you have chosen puts at risk that this consensus can be given. Because you yourself are talking about a period of coexistence of two legalities in which the citizens of Catalonia must sort out which is what they think is legitimate and which is what they think is not. And this is a situation that any responsible ruler should want to avoid. You've run away from school again today, you don't answer us or alternatively, that's what we have to believe, you don't have absolutely no advice, no report, no opinion, no contingency plan respecting what they say you want to settle before September of this same year.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.249.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, there's the words of Mrs. Neus Munté, the President's Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.250.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you have all the right to ask and require information, and we answer and give that information that exists. You come up here and ask a question about this eventual secession and the preparation of this eventual secession, and you have to want to talk about this, but I need to talk about what is really there and what is actually being done by this government. And, if I may say so in this way, I want to speak, because it is the mandate of this Parliament and the mandate of the citizenry, to refer, to vote, to resolve politically what is a political conflict that exists in Catalonia, and that is what we inform of. I have, as you can imagine, a copy of the answers that we have given you from your questions, and it is indeed so: we inform you, as you have also had occasion to ask and ask, as many times as you need, I would just miss, the president of the Institute of Self-Government Studies. The functions of this institute and of the different bodies that coordinate the work they have to do with the impulse and defense of our self-government. It is quite clear that the advisory functions that this body has do not always and necessarily involve the preparation of written documentation. And I would like to reiterate the existence of reports which are public and which you would do well to analyse in your absolute conjunction, as is the case with this report to which you referred earlier, where we are talking about many other questions, about the formulation of a question, about who are the international standards of a reference as we want to put forward. You said: "We too have proposals. And he talked about constitutional reform. Perfect, honourable Member, but I remind you that we are coming from a general policy debate when the motions for resolutions concerning the celebration of a referendum received seventy-two and seventy-three votes, respectively, from the Members of this House. Remember: referencing or referencing. And we're working on this deal to find an agreement, a pact, a negotiation with the state government to make a deal. Seventy-three deputies. The wording of his proposal on a constitutional reform achieved an indescribable success, if you will allow me, because he obtained only the votes of his deputies and deputies. In any case, honourable Member, and as long as you have the capacity, of course, to infuse in the actions and actions of the Government of the State, because you have helped to constitute this Government that presides over Mr. Mariano Rajoy. The president said that this morning: we do not give the dialect by death and we will not give it by death, but you would do well to help, to contribute to this debate as possible. You put pressure on us. Don't impress us, but push us. Why don't they do the same thing to the state government? Why don't they contribute... – according to their clear democratic and constructive trajectory, not just in Catalonia, but in the conjunct of the State –, so that they don't help to modify normal marches that have become obsolete or that can be even immoral at these times. Help us from the lack of resignation, as we say this same morning, to be able to change these questions. I refer again to Mr Miquel Iceta, who was talking this morning about "who is outside the state of law cannot find in us, I said, "recolzation. Who's out of the law state? Who repeatedly incompletes the rulings of the Constitutional Court and the Supreme Court, including all European legislation? Who allows for the completion of information, which ultimately they do is to bring false evidence against absolutely honorable people? Doesn't this place the government of the state in collusion with the core principles of a right-wing state? So, how come you didn't report it? How come they don't own it? How come you don't support our demands in this sense? And who's the judge, Mr. Congressman? Who's the judge? The Government of the Generality defends its competitions, the rights and freedoms of citizens and the means available to social entities or businesses, for example. It is not the Government of Catalonia that is judicial. Pedal with us. Help us to make possible a _marc granted for such a reference; but above all, understand that we will complement, by and large, the democratic mandates of Parliament and the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.251.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Torrent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.252.0	Yes, Madam President, for a point of order and for what it is in the Minutes. Since our group celebrated that it was possible to celebrate and that the Bureau had admitted to bringing an inquiry with which we have just listened, with which we have just seen; an inquiry which was held by title..., or was referred to in relation to a possible secession of Catalonia. We celebrate this, because this means that it is possible to talk about everything, that it is actually found that with this title an inquiry of this style can be admitted for the Bureau. And, for that matter, let's celebrate it. And in any case, we take note of it for the future. Thank you very much, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.253.0	Thank you. Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until four o'clock in the afternoon... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.254.0	Because it is in the record that it is, first of all, thanks to the Socialist Group that in this chamber we can talk about everything from today. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.255.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Greetings to municipal and district representatives and assistants of the Penedès]] Before we begin, I would like to greet the mayors and mayors and presidents and presidents of the local councils that accompany us, and especially all the people of Penedès who are here in the session room, but also in another room, following this session. Very late, all of them. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Proposed Law of Adaptation of the Law 30/2010, of August 3, of Vegueries, to the new region of Moianès and to the creation of the Vegueria of Penedès]] [[202-00035/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Governance, Public Administration and Housing on the proposal for a law to adapt the Law 30/2010, the August 3rd, the Vegueries, the new region of Moianès and the creation of the Vegueria del Penedès. According to Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, you have the word, to present the work of the Commission, Mrs Neus Lloveras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.256.0	Very good; very late at all. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, and above all good afternoon, people of the Great Penedes. It's good to see this hemicle with so many people accompanying us at this time so special for the people of Penedès. A thanks for the presence of the presidents of the regional councils, mayors and governors, many friends and friends, and also highlight that here we have a counselor also of the territory, of the Grand Penedès; thanks, counselor, also to be there. Well, today is the end of the parliamentary process of the proposed amendment law of the Law 30/2010 of Vegueries, for the creation of the old Penedès, and also for the incorporation of the new region of Moianès. I also take this opportunity to greet the regional president of Moianès, who I believe is also accompanying us. This proposal is a proposal presented jointly by 99 of the 135 Members of Parliament, three-quarters, on July 2, and we submitted it by urgent procedure. In this first intervention I correspond, as the rapporteur put it, to explain the work done by the question and, therefore, I will speak on behalf of all the speakers represented by all the political forces of this Ple. The ponència..., the initial debate was on July 28, 2016, which I think many of you have already attended. Then, on September 27th, the Governance Commission met, where it discussed how to organize this post. Most of the members of the committee felt that it was appropriate to expedite as much as possible the process of this proposal of law, and in this sense it was decided, first of all, to carry out comparisons at the pose level, and second place, also to enable those people who could not be present there to make their comparisons by writing. Therefore, we wanted to go in a hurry, yes, but we did not want to obviate the possibility of having a whole series of appearances that could enrich and improve the debate. On September 28th, the first meeting of the ponència was held and it was called, the list of appearances was made, and it was decided to do everything in the same day, also with this objective to concentrate as much time as possible and to be as fast as possible. It was finally set on October 17th to make all these appearances, face-to-face, and I think we can say that appearances were very diverse and all very, very interesting. Some of the people who were here with us are in the audience today, and I think the people who are finally going to quote to compare were uncertain. There were representatives of the business world and economic fabric, of the trade union world, representatives of environmental entities, historians, representatives of municipalism, geographers, urbanists, cultural entities, and I am sure that I am leaving some, but in any case, there were many contributions from a great knowledge, very diverse and very rich, which gave place to a debate which was very interesting that day of the debate, where we made a concentrated day, yes, there were many, but everyone went on, he had the will to try to sum up his contributions as much as possible, and from here he opened a very interesting debate. Therefore, in the first place, and beginning some graces that I want to make today, this late, a grace to all the people who have taken the will to come and, moreover, have this predisposition to have this debate concentrated, but very, very enriching and very involved. And also a thank you to those people who could not come, but who did compare by writing and who were also, I think, very, very interesting contributions to this debate. After this, from the appearances, which, as I said, were all done on October 17, December 19 was gathered and discussed the papers presented. A total of eight papers were submitted, and I believe it was done, on the part of all the speakers, as much effort as possible to try to find a way to accept it as much as possible. It is in this sense that two of the items were transactional and ultimately recommended; two more were recommended; one declined, because its contents were already collected, and three were not recommended, basically, because it considered the assumption that its contents did not correspond to what it was dealing with, but made more reference to dubiously the Law of Vegaries. Therefore, these were not recommended, and these were some points that the People's Party presented and that it maintained today for the debate. Finally, he drew up the bill's proposal report and prediction, which presented the 31st generation to the Governance Commission, where it was debated and voted. The result is the Commission's defined opinion which is presented today for its approval. To finish my intervention, this first intervention, which, as I said, I speak on behalf of all the groups in this Parliament that we participated in this debate, I would like to make two thanks. First of all, to all the speakers, to all the formations, to all the parliamentary groups that were, that were involved in the question, that were all, obviously. I think everyone was very active in it; there was a willingness on the part of everyone to facilitate the debate, and therefore I think it was a very, very positive process. And second of all, there's also a thank you to the post office advisors, to the press and to his entire team, because they helped us a lot. That would leave this first intervention. I have tried, just as it was already a process that we tried to summarize, I have also tried to summarize it here as much as possible, and from here I think we will not give to the interesting part of this debate, that it is this last debate before that many and many of the ones we have been here for many years to wait, that it is that for the sake of the eve of Penedès it is a reality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.257.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lloveras. We will then proceed to the intervention to defend the items reserved for parliamentary groups. In the first place, has the word Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.258.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, a cordial greeting to all the people of Penedès who are accompanying us in this debate today. They'll allow me to begin by expressing what is the vision that we should have from the People's Party, because it explains a lot of what our will is with respect to the vets, but also with regard to the Penedès. We see the old days, we have defended it at the length of the years and we continue to defend it, as the territorial division of the Government of Catalonia and, therefore, as the territorial organization of the services of the Government of Catalonia. There's a second important vision, too, uplifting, that it's seeing old times as the intermunicipal government of local cooperation, and therefore it has this component and it has to have this component as well of administration and local government. This is our vision of the ages; it is our vision of the ages; it is our vision that, certainly, it also has its statutori recovery, the 2006 Statue also has a vision of the ages, and so from this point of view we fully share it. I'm jumping to Penedès now. We share the arguments that can be given, that have been given over the years and that can be given over to the Penedès. Among other things, we share them because we, the People's Party – and I want to have some record words for Congresswoman Dolors Montserrat, who was one of the pioneers in the defense of the Penedès in this Parliament – we have defended and made our own, the arguments for defending this character of the Penedès from the territorial point of view, from the geographical, political, economic, social, cultural point of view... We can share even all historical arguments, but, as we have already said in the appearances that have come to mind, our historical vision does not justify the action of the future. Let's think more about 2300 than not in 1300, the administrations of the future than the history of the past; but in any case we believe that all these elements, if only, give it entity to Penedès. And we've been consistent on the length of the story, and I want to defend here today that we're still coherent, even though this law won't have our view. We have been pushing through the past decade various motions for resolutions and even all the proposed law that ended with the recognition of the functional scope of Penedès planning, with a law passed in this Parliament, fifteen days before the Law of Veggieries that today is intended to change. Yes, the People's Party was proposing that law. Also the Convergence and Union Group, but also the People's Party. But what we have today in front of us is the Law of Veighers, which precisely was approved those fifteen days after the functional scope of Penedès was approved and which has already held the vote against our parliamentary group, because the conception that it is deprenation and that it is after the Law 30/2010 is not only a conception that the Veighers are the territorial division of the Generality, as a tool of municipal cooperation of local administrations, but that it is the deprenation of that law – and this is the key back from all the fold – is that the Veighers are the replacement of provinces and provincial diputations. And here we can't agree. And we can't agree because we understand – we understand – that provinces and provincial parliaments are part of the territorial organization of the State Administration, and so it has to be..., as it does recognize the same law, and surely for this reason Law 30/2010 has not developed on the part of the Government, because it is waiting for the provinces to change, for the laws of the General Courts to change, ensuring that this same law allows the Government of the..., not allowing: hand – hand – to the Government of the General that organizes the territorial services according to these ages. It prevented the government, in these six and a half years of the Law of Vegaries, from organizing itself according to this territorial organization. But it didn't happen. It was not done precisely because the will of that law was to remove provinces and stay with the territorial organization of the State Administration. And someone will say – we have heard it say – "It's that with futures what we want is to simplify the Administration. We share this will, we share the will to simplify the Administration. But they'll allow me to simplify from four provincial deputies to eight times seems far less coherent than trying to simplify from forty-two district councils to eight times. Home, if they ask me what it's that simplifies, I think going from forty-two to eight really simplifies. In summary: Vegueries, yes. And I've already exposed what our view of the ages is. Penedes, yes, with the vision that I have expressed to you of the vogueries. Now, this Veguery Law, no. And the most obvious proof that this House is ineffective is the fact that it has passed six and a half years of its approval by this Parliament, it has not developed, nor so much in what was more simple, than the departments of the Government of the Government organizing its territorial services according to the times. I contradict the rapporteur: there have been no eight reports, simply, our parliamentary group has tabled a deut-deut-deut. Another thing is that the Bureau of the Governance Committee, chaired by a member of the CUP, decided – go on, that what you can talk about sometimes is not so – that you can talk about many things, but you can't discuss either the unions or the law's absorptives or if the veggies were to be adapted to what we thought. So, we wanted to talk about everything, we wanted to talk about whether or not the vetries, as defined by the law, were the right ones or not. I don't know whether the criteria of the Bureau of the Commission were certain or not, man, what I do know, and I must say, is that the decision of the Bureau of the Commission was taken at a sitting of the Constitutional Court. Magnificent. The president of the CUP of the Bureau of the Board of Governors rejects the processing of seven papers submitted by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, according to a ruling of the Constitutional Court. Magnificent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We don't put it in discussion, man, but let me, as a minimum, put into evidence his own contradictions. For example – for example – one of the items which was not accepted by the Bureau of the Committee on Governance of this Parliament coincides with one item tabled by the Socialist Group. And that they don't get married in discussion that it's possible to process the ponència. That of the PP is rejected, that of the Socialist Group is debated in ponència. I will tell you more: the slogan presented by the Socialist Group incorporates it into the text of the law. Magnificent. If the PP presents it, we reject it and we do not admit it to transit; if the Socialist Group presents it we do not only admit it to transit, but we even recommend it in a petition. Well, magnificent. I think it puts enough evidence, this situation, the contradictions that, therefore, someone has when defending according to which theories and according to which postulates. And at this point, three of the gods that we introduced the People's Party, who were basically trying to get the Law of Veighers to speak solely and exclusively of the Veighers as the territorial division of the Generality and as the Local Administration of the Generality and as the local cooperation tool; three remain. Out of the three, the announcement that we're pulling one out of it, which is number 2, which hasn't been admitted. He was not admitted because he was carrying the signature of the PP, because other items that say exactly the same but did not carry the signature of the PP were admitted. And, therefore, they have been incorporated into the text. Magnificent – Magnificent. This must be a will of consensus that, frankly, we don't share. We keep the other two, which are exams 1 and 3. And we also announced the vote in favour, if it is maintained, of the continuing concern of the Socialist Group, which basically calls for there to be a territorial coordination committee. Because, of course, after we add now the Penedesh and we have eight times more than forty-two district councils, well, some sort of..., and the departments of the Generality, each one organized with the amount of territorial divisions that it has held for the convenience of years long – because at this time there will no longer be one that fits what it is, until now there was that of salvation, which certainly did not need the law to suit itself that has already been in place since 2005 – so it will be necessary to have a little coordination between all these administrations. And, therefore, we will give support to the legacy of the Socialist Party, if it is maintained. To finish. Ladies and gentlemen, today we will have Penedès, but I regret to make it clear that what we continue without are ever happening. We'll have the name, but we won't have that tool that's actually what the people of Penedès want: to have a tool to develop all the potentials we have and that haven't been possible. We'll have Penedès, but we don't have veggies. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.259.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, the words of Ms. Eva Martínez of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.260.0	Well, thank you, President. Councillors, deputies and deputies, I want to greet, first of all, all the people and institutions of Penedès and Moianès who are accompanying us today. And today is an important day for us to complete the process and approve with the collection of a large majority of this chamber the proposed law of modification of the Law of times to create the eve of the Penedes that also includes the adaptation of this law to the new region of the Moianes. In the case of Moianès, all the municipalities of this new region will be integrated into the vegueria of central Catalonia. The creation of the eve of the Penedesh is the question that raised the most debate, and the agreement of four of the six groups of this chamber, that we entered the register of the proposal of the Law now eight months ago. Our group wanted to participate directly in the whole process and be part of the achievement of this historical tape for the Penedès. And that's why he added up as a group proposing all the views of the territory. And it's that for the last few years we can't help but see that 93 percent of the territory's assemblies, 100 percent of the county councils, thirteen business associations, 131 entities and associations, and thousands of citizens in individual title have adhered to the claim of the old Penedès. If we make a bit of a memo, the father of the debate of the new territorial organization and the Law of Vegueries, approved in 2010, was the tripartite government with President José Montilla in the lead, with the intention of modernizing the already outdated provincial distribution. In fact, even though in July 2010 the area of territorial planning of the Penedès was approved, it is not until seven years after the demand for the old age can be met. That is why it is critical of those parties that have been able to develop this law, with responsibility for government, but have not done so until seven years later. And the government, in fact, has not made the proposal, is making it the Parliament. That said, in these years we socialists have not stopped working for the Penedian Action Unit, as they collected our positions from the late 1980s. We have worked tirelessly to promote the shared management of services through the Penedès-Garraf Commonwealth, as well as in the expansion of the strategic plans of the Penedès lock in the coffers of the Penedès area. For the socialists, the territorial delimitation of Catalonia must be an instrument for efficiency, the appropriation of public administrations to the citizen and the reduction of public administration costs. With this idea we believe that this time is to be planned, with practical effects, as a community of services extended to the whole of Penedès and with a council of mayors and mayors where they will debate and push the projects, so that the next time closer the administration to the citizen. It is from this point of view that we thought it appropriate to adhere to the purpose of the law and open the debate. The Socialist Group wanted to give you all the actors and listen. We thought that the process of appearances might have widened and that it would not be necessary to have a one-day marathon session – morning and late –, in concrete terms on October 17th, we passed through room 4 of the Parliament fourteen representatives of entities or experts, almost forty people. Very interesting, but hard to pair on a day. Moreover, it was decided that political representatives did not make face-to-face appearances, but by writing, a decision of the ponència that we have not shared. The mayors, mayors, governors and directors are an active part of the penedense society, and a more vivid protagonist of the same, we think it would have provided a major debate with the towns and cities of the territory. Our contribution has been translated into four fairly technical elements, which have been collected or traded almost in their entirety in the opinion on the question. In this sense, we withdraw the share of Emena 7, which was still alive, and therefore it will not be necessary to put it to the vote. For what it does to the work done for the job, I want to highlight and congratulate the work done for all the Members, from all the groups, and the working also in the discrepancy. And the work done for Parliament's readers and servants. With the approval of this modification of the Law of Vegueries it will create a new Vegueria, and this is not the end of the process, but the principle. In the process of appearances, through the expert and connoisseurs of reality, they have placed themselves on the table the challenges of the future. It is necessary to adapt the organization of the Generality to the old age, because, as has already been said, we have different territorial references as regards regions – health care, school, transport, territories – the difficulty of redistributing income and inequality between the municipalities. There are also problems of transport and mobility between the different territories, and it coincides to highlight the difficult problem of the lower Penedès, and also to the Anoia, where there are processes of deindustrialisation. The most recent data contradicts the words given this morning by President Puigdemont, who described Catalonia as a factory of work places. Well, then, the Low Penedès Dating Rate for 2017 is 21.5_per_cent, and it's only improved a half point since June 2016, and the distance with the High Penedès Dating Rate has increased in these months. Therefore, it is a topic in which we need to put actions. And to avoid these setbacks, the creation of the old age is not enough, but that firm policies and resources of the government against the weather and for economic activation. But we don't want to stay here. Since the PSC, we believe this is an opportunity to improve service delivery with a powerful decentralisation of Generality resources to local entities. With this crisis, the assemblies have demonstrated their ability to adapt, respond, manage. Assemblies have not only reached families in the situation of social emergence, but have also been concerned about economic recovery. And we believe that the Generality needs to transfer more resources to local entities. The Penedès, in fact, already has own management tools, such as the Penedès-Garraf Commonwealth, the strategic plan, the sphere of action... Therefore, there is already an interrelationship between local governments and cooperation. They must take advantage of existing structures and transfer resources to the local world. Today, the creation of the old Penedès will not generate a new administrative structure, since, as it appeared during the hearings, until there is a change in provincial boundaries and a clear political will to activate the old ones, they will not be effective. Therefore, there will be a greater involvement of the Government of the Generality in the plataforms that already exist. There is a lot of work to be done, to give an answer to the reptes that this timepiece has, which already commented: the high rate of maturity, the inequality between the municipalities or the deindustrialisation. It is necessary to articulate the financing and investments in the territory of the Vegueria and a plan of action in order not to create a new empty Vegueria of contents that frustrates the expectations of its defenders. We finish here a way of eight months to make an amendment of the law. It would have been easier and quicker to make a unilateral statement, but it would not have been legally valid. After two years of demands, the social and parliamentary majority has sunk to make this change possible. This is parliamentary democracy. And, last but not least, I want to give recognition to the entities and people who, with their perseverance, have achieved a large majority to make a yearning for many penedeshes and penedeshes: the eternal Penedesh. The work to do the veggie doesn't end here, but it just starts. It must be an administrative reality and the centre of the political decisions affecting the territory, and the real realization of the services, of the territorial organization of the Generalitat. So good work and viscose the old Penedès! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.261.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.262.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselors, deputies, deputies. Thank you for your assistance, too, to the representatives of the different organizations of the Penedès. Well, we at the time of valuation of this veg project is not so much the valuation of the Penedès, but a global reflection on the need to do or not to do these vegs. At the motivating presentation of the bill for the modification, the territorial division had to agree with a sense of relevance. The preamble of the law says you need to look for a historical institution, and the administrative division prior to the New Plant Decrees. Clearly, we don't think the references should be what the Administration was before the New Plant Decrees, what's part of the myths, huh? Of these myths that we have here, myths built for nationalism. We think that in time to talk about the division..., of the territorial organization we should do it with efficiency criteria, because the question is what territorial model do we want: a territorial model that serves us to build relationship, to build identity, or a territorial model that seeks efficiency? Clearly, I remember that during the questioning there was a representative who said that the Penedès had to occupy the place that corresponded to him, right? This idea, therefore, is like transcendence. The transcendence of the bond, of relevance, is something that is a little elongated from..., I mean, it's very emotional and not so rational, isn't it? "The emotional link with the territory, which was also one of the phrases that was said, had literally pointed, as it had literally pointed out, "the will to be, right? Yes, of course. And for us, being, being, being, is the vital project of every person, of individuals. And so we have to have equal opportunities, we have to have an administration that is efficient at the time of having the best education, the best sanitation, good housing policies, good employment policies, mobility. This is what makes it easier for people to develop their vital projects without having an impediment to their own will or their own conditions of origin. In this sense, to get the citizens to be able to finish their vital projects to keep us going? We think that no, that what we need is to have good policies, that what we need is to have good investments, that there is good public management, that there is good public policy, that there is, in short, a more comprehensive planning, eh? And not pieces, because maybe we're acting like pieces. And we would have a law of local governments, which... well, we intend to push it. And it would also be good to compare to what other countries have done around us, because when we talk about the territorial model, about the organization of the Administration, then we can see what other countries have done, right? Because it is administrative simplification, and when we have provinces, we have commarques without general reflection, so we may not be contributing to this administrative rationalization. I want to make a comment, don't I? In Denmark, which is a country that things are good for, economically, therefore, is good..., therefore, they went from 278 municipalities to 98; in the United Kingdom they went from 1,500 municipalities to 400; in Germany they went from 25,000 to 8,400. Other autonomous communities in Spain have fewer levels of administration than we do. Clearly, the reflection here would be if we didn't have to do a little like the other countries, which are alluding to the Administration because the current modes of operation, the communications, the technological capability, allows us, therefore, to reduce the political cost because these resources vaguely stop serving. I'm thinking that the district councils cost..., they have a cost of about 500_million euros a year. That, if we were to reorganize, maybe we could allude to these costs, right? I also remember a trade union representative who said that he saw these vogueries or this model as a way of continuing to mess up this party-critical machine that also served, so that there were policies, trusting roles, placed and living at the cost of public error. Our model is more to lighten the political agenda and put professionals in public management. We think that you'll work, so, that you've passed some training criteria, you've had to make some oppositions, so..., strengthen the professional business of the Administration and reduce the political business, which is more than political, well, it's the living around the parties and the trust and all that, isn't it? With regard to the Moianès region, there is also a reflection: the European Union recommends that the municipal administrations should remain, as at least 15,000 inhabitants, and it seems to me that the geographical scope of Moianès is 13,000. It is not a criticism of the Penedès, it is not a criticism of the Moianès because we understand that all the citizens of Catalonia, all the citizens of Spain and all the citizens of the European Union must have equal opportunities visquina where visquina. But it's this reflection on whether this model, the old-fashioned one, is the adjunct. And like it's a model that hasn't been done since the general layout, to say, we look at how we have the organizational map of the Administration and try to rationalize it, so it's something that's a piece, it's not a..., it doesn't seem like it's a good law, it's not a good proposal, because it's not the tool. What's needed is to rationalize administration to improve service and meet people's needs. In change, if we make a law that, in the background, right? So we're making fireworks, we're making smoke, huh? And while we're doing this, so maybe we're not paying attention to the things that really are, the things that are real. 'Cause, yeah, well, here they come up with expectations, they warm up feelings, but it's fake that this is used to fix things. Rationality. We need a serious government. Public policy vouchers are needed, care for the needy and manage. Here in Parliament, more... well, I personally take a little time, but I've seen that there are many laws that aren't complete. That is to say, we also have the 2007 Housing Law that has not been done, we have a series of laws here that are approved, that serve us to make great headlines, but that at the time of achieving the objectives, so, we see that it is not done. And you're sorry, aren't you? Perhaps, then, we should make less fireworks and demand from the government that it is completely dislocated from what should be centered on a government that wants to be responsible, and how... well, we've already had a bit of a circus this morning, haven't we? , with the president, when..., linked all this to the court... [[The timer laughs and you see the background.]] Yeah, yeah... there's been a circus. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, ask them, therefore, that we reflect on what is going on in this Parliament... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.263.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.264.0	... and that we work to give solutions to the problems of the weather, to the problems of transport – which I am aware that in the Penedès they have problems of transport –, to the problems of energy, to the problems of housing, the inequalities... Because, if we do this, it will be then when we are honoring the fact that the citizens have given us voting to constitute this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.265.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.266.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillor, Councillors..., a very cordial greeting to all the people of the territory you accompany us today, to the presidents of the county councils, mayors, mayors, governors, governors, the viens and the people of the Platform for a Proper Vegueria, who I am a little the soul also of this impulse. And forgive me that before I enter the matter of the law... it's that I can't be: I'm delighted that after almost two years is claimed the Housing Law of 2007. Because, well, it seems that in the end someone claims something that we did the tripartite government of which I very proudly took part. And today it's been two times. And I'm sorry, but I had to tell you. [[Some applause.]] That said, made this parenthesis..., the law we approve today: to see, today, formally or legally, we approve a small, timely reform of the Law 30/2010, which basically affects Article 9 of the Law, which is the one that establishes the veggie demarcations, and we did so to adapt both the creation of the new region of Moianès, adapt it to the veggiery of Central Catalonia, as to create the veggiery of Penedès, and therefore modify the other veggieries that are affected. Clearly, formally, legally, it's a small change, but let's not forget that we come here from a long way, and let's not say who it was who it was who it was..., no: a long way, in which here we are all responsible for the way it went, a long way that begins on July 14, 2010 when we approve..., the Ple approves the creation of the functional environment, after the Law of Veggies is approved, which excludes the eve of the Penedès; June 2011 is suspicious of the development of the Law of Veggies, and, finally, this legislature four forces present this joint proposal, and, in this sense, I want to give thanks to all the participants, both to the proponents and to the work that we can do. And I also want to remember here, Members and Members, that, even though they have not been part of the ponència, in the other legislature they were also at the back and we know that they have been pushing the creation of this law. But, of course, this formal and small aspect, isn't it? , which is legally a small change, I think that at country level it has an import..., means a big change. Why? Because today this Parliament is the voice of a territory; a territory that wants to be recognized and that wants to be recognized with its historical, socio-cultural, and landscape features; that wants to stop being a patella, that wants to stop being the patella between two great territorial realities, between two great metropolitan areas, a bigger one, effectively, Barcelona, and Tarragona; that wants to stop being a land of step, to see as they pass over its territory great infrastructures without, moreover, the citizens and citizens of many of these being able to benefit. A territory that is reinvented, that is reinvented from its most traditional factors, such as wine, pagery, but also with others of technological innovation, and is reinvented in order to be able to cope with this great rate of attitude that it suffers, one of the highest in Catalonia, above all the Bass. A territory, and here we will have work, with shared capitalities, or which, at least, has the vocation that these capitalities should be shared. And that it will take a lot of account when we develop the law, the first transitory arrangement, which leaves us in the hands of Parliament as the issue of where the services are going will be resolved. So he sees us working too, doesn't he? We hope that with the approval of this law the strategies of these parties that used this firm will of the territory will be finally set aside, and that we can continue to work forward. But, too – I said when we did the whole thing, and I repeat this – we do not forget that in the current legislative framework we find ourselves in order to be able to make this law effective so that we can amend a lot of state legislation so that it is effective. So, we can work on a day-to-day basis as the Generality's organization, but we have..., we have to change a lot of texts that today condition that the day-to-day work actually works on a day-to-day basis with all of you, and it's the local law regulating hisendes, the LOREG, the organic law delimiting provincial boundaries, etc. And these propositions of the law, while we follow an autonomous community and we don't have another rule, so they're needed if we want the old one to work, I tell you, 100 percent and we can have, so, that, that, the eight demarcations, etc., the councils and all that. Another issue that concerns us – and this is what we believe to be urgent and priority – refers to the area of territorial planning of the Penedès, that is, the elaboration of the partial territorial plan. The spring of 2016 saw Councillor Rull and the Director General, Agustí Segarra, who was very advanced, who already had several advanced documents... It is important, because it has also been developing for a long time, to finish this territorial plan, and it is also very important to post it to public exposure, to make the debate processes and information with the territory. And this will also be important, above all, for the people of Anoia, because they can collaborate and because actually this feeling of building something new, that goes beyond the commas, I think that approval of this plan can help it. Therefore, it is very important that we can have this shared diagnostic on infrastructures, on whether or not we are in logistics centres, on which territories we preserve or not, and what this is done in a shared way. Therefore, I believe that this is a duet that the Government has now over the table and that, well, if we take into account the statements made by Councillor Rull, they will be able to present to us during 2017. Another issue, another question that also, well, questions us and concerns us is that, by statements made by you in the territory, it seems that there has not just been agreement between the deconcentration and decentralisation..., for example, the appointment of a territorial delegate must already be or this has to be done progressively. In this sense, do not coincide, Vice-President, with your statements, which you made at the meeting, which said that a territorial delegate is promptly appointed, with the statements of Councilwoman Borràs. So, here, as two different forces conform to this government, I assume that you will have to come to an agreement to explain how we do this, that, if we appoint delegates..., and how we will do this creation of the territorial services, well, that you have to put a line to the needle and tell the territory, tell the elected representatives and the people on the platform how they will do it; what they will do and how they will do it. I think this is an important issue for us to know. Why? Why really the reality, beyond feelings, that are very licit, huh? , territorial feelings..., the vegueria, a potentiality that it has is this: to deconcentrate, decentralize and lie down the Administration of the Generality in the territories, the making of decisions. And that's always good... well, that principle of proximity is always good. And, therefore, I believe that as soon as possible we will clarify how this is done, and when it is done, then it is better. Without assuming – and this too made it clear, Vice-President – increasing expenditure. In this sense I believe that this is everyone's responsibility at this time that this deconcentration and decentralisation does not imply an increase in expenditure. So I don't think it's gonna end today, though. Today is a day of joy for this Parliament and for the people of the territory. Just as today another period begins, I hope that if the people of the territory, above all the people of the platform, continue to be so coughy and so persistent, then we can develop and we can make the principle of this future reality a reality. That's what our strength wants, too, in this we'll be at your side, so let the Penedès see! Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.267.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. The words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.268.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, councillor, people of Penedès, good late. Before anything else, allow me a warning, which is answered, in response to the intervention of Congressman Santi Rodríguez of the People's Party. To say it only..., to say the things, because they know: the items that were not discussed by the committee are items that did not prosper on the question, they are items that came with a report from the Iletrate, and which, moreover, was decided by the majority of the Bureau; I mean, it was not a decision of the Garriga, but it was a decision of the Bureau not to listen to them. And that's it: no problem in the debate; now, the debates have to be organized. That said, the approval today of the modification of the Law of Vegueries to include the creation of the Penedès to the territorial reorganization of Catalonia opens an important door for the future of the districts of Anoia, the Garraf, Alt and Baix Penedès, and places the Penedès, in fact, within the territorial organization of the country with the same conditions as the other regions. This was, in fact, the stage we wanted, the drawing that many years of struggle and claim by the people of the territory, people somehow represented today in the gallery, so it made possible. To all of you, therefore, many thanks. We are debating and approving a change in your struggle, your persistence, your contributions, the enormous amount of reasons you have been able to explain in each of the forums, meetings, debates on the territorial model of Catalonia or as we understand it, we drew and wanted this Penedès on the map of the country, precisely to be able to look at the world. We come up with questions, with doubts, with many pros and cons of the table, but also with opinions, many, and shared intentions and the clear conviction that what we are doing is certainly the best for our region, for our people, and also for our country. Defending the future of the Penedes we have not retreated into the historical melic of a supposed reduction or put ourselves in positions of localist defense. It is not true, that, but we have done it and we do it with social, human and political projection of a concrete territory within the national sphere of Catalonia. In the defense of the Penedès as we have been for many years, bringing many reasons to convince the people: a territory that substantiates geographical diversity in a harmonious and balanced way; a critical mass that has the right and the possibility of having services; a territory with strong, vile and dynamic cities; an economic diversification; a university; in short, a cultural landscape forged for many years, enviable, and an excellent heritage mark. We are connoisseurs of whom we are our geographical and human sources, of our limitations that we still have in the world, of the same way that we know our possibilities and, naturally, of the needs of our territory. Now it is time to debate the potentialities of what we have talked about, those that we have in the service of the articulation of the territory, an articulation that must allow us to manage a territory with a human dimension, managed from an assumable proximity, creating synergies between communities, generating wealth and making it a fair and equitable distribution, creating economic values linked to this and the conservation of the landscape as a tourism potential and, therefore, of economic dynamism, and also of the activity of the university with the complicity of our industry, as well as with the competitors of the economy. As someone says, it's obvious that we're a step-by-step territory; that's history. But from this situation it would take away the best possibilities and give them precisely a territorial action. Land of step, therefore, yes; but with infrastructures to the service of the same territory, and not only of servitude, that contribute to the interterritorial balance. We have not come here either for localist selfishness or for rural attitudes, but all the contrary: we are where we are for having made a long, open-eyed and country-horizontal flight. A path built with important contributions from the cultural, associative, economic, social and political worlds; a path in which we have been able to listen, and in fact we have listened to it at the length of many meetings and in the appearances themselves, compromised people and connoisseurs of geography, territory and urbanism. We hope to have a territory that is politically and administratively cohesive, with the will to simplify administrative duplication, with the will to vertebrate services, to make a network, to avoid the interference of external plans with our territorial structure, which causes us to lose factors of growth that are likely and always dependent on metropolitan interests. Therefore, we do not accept or want false labels, or under false progressive or supposedly modernizing discourses, or under the fallacy of simplifying administration and agitating movements within supposed territorial areas that, overpowering – which overpowering – have always – manifested themselves as non-inclusive. Today, with today's approval, we do not renounce or benefit from what affects our peoples and communities. Our feeling of changing the law and in favour of the creation of the old Penedes is neither a blessing nor a blank answer to the proposals that today, we think or believe, are at the top of the government table and that they draw the future urbanist of the region and that they must contemplate the potentialities and needs of the conjunction of our communities. Approval of the modification of the Law of Veggieries to incorporate it into the Penedès we take an option, which, we think, is more uncertain, which, we think, can go better, which, we think, responds to our needs. In any case, however, we do away with the problems that we have kept open in the course of the debate these years. We are willing to participate and we want to be there where things are decided, particularly those affecting the territoriality of our country. It is from this that we know how to look at the potentialities and analyze well the needs that we think we need to take a new look, which has been written, around the articulation of our territory, and not give anything for good. A new look at the concreteness on the map, in the sanitary, teaching and other services; at the realization of urban, industrial, agricultural, forestry, and communication spaces, where a metropolitan optical, reinforced by the ease of passage, may not have given the opportunity to public transport, an important element of cohesion and territorial balance for the Penedès. While in the debate and in the appearances, opposing positions have emerged with reference to the metropolitan area of Barcelona, located between the two great areas of Barcelona and Tarragona, the Penedès, we think, clearly has what role it wants to play, between maintaining strength and the ability to redistribute wealth and the danger of metropolisation, rigid and invasive, which can only be dealt with from a strong position..., first and most powerful. I can give a new look at the map of the designed infrastructure, and I can do it from this territorial area that we're officially on paper today. All folded, from a clear concept of present and future possibilities. A new look on being able to lay the landscape balance, agrarian, industrial, economic, with a global view of the Penedès. As has been said, this is a step further from the open, honest and structured dialogue bet in terms of effectiveness and above all realistic, as far as it seeks to be faithful to the human, cultural, environmental reality of the Penedès. And allow me, in conclusion, a reflection. It's no accident, I said it one day here, it's no accident that today, in the midst of political and social discussion about the need to build a new independent Catalan republic, it's possible to give more answers to our people and answers to our territory, because it's in the mark of this emancipating volunteer that the struggle of more than two years old for the Penedès finds answers, unity and parliamentary strength. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.269.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Then you have the word... [[The applause continues.]] The words of Mrs. Neus Lloveras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.270.0	Thank you, President. Bona is late again, advisors, vice president, deputies, deputies, representatives of the Platform for the Vegueria Penedès and friends and friends, many – many – of the territory. Yesterday, when I was at my desk preparing the intervention for today, in this case my intervention to fix the position of Junts for the Yes, it cost me, I found it difficult to find arguments that still haven't been explained here and many times again, about the convenience of creating the eternal Penedès. And ruminant, ruminant, I thought that, indeed, this is certainly one of the main arguments for which we jointly presented the Groups of Juntes for the Yes, Catalonia Yes that is Pot, Socialist Party and CUP this bill's proposal to include the Vegan Penedès to the Law of Veighers. Basically, because we've been talking about it for a long time, we haven't talked about it, and because it's about time – it's about time – to make the mistake that was made when it was approved, on July 27, 2010, a law of ages without taking into account the old Penedès, when a few days before, concretely fifteen days before, the functional scope of planning had been approved. So, that had to be fixed. And, man, I think that's one of the main reasons we've moved to make this proposal and do it, plus, with this emergency procedure and, plus, we've tried to speed it up, anyway. And while I was doing these thoughts, I was at the back and I grabbed a book that I had on the side, that's the book The Penedès was possible – that I think the title, obviously, should be The Penedès is possible, isn't it? – from the Platform for a Proper Vegueria; a book that is a very good summary of more than two years of tireless work on the part of the platform. And after filling it in, I'd like to start my argumentary by referring to a distance from the prologue written by Ramon Folch, a PhD in biology and socio-ecology, and he talks, say, so– a very short trosset of this prologue–; he talks about "the eve of Penedès has already existed; therefore, it can't be said that it's a pretense without a historical basis. Now, the eternal Penedes does not need historical nostalgia, but the will to go comfortably into the future. The concept of territorial comfort does not come to the books, but it is understood by people; it is the comforting feeling of seeing the spatial imagination of the people in harmony with administrative reality. I thought it was a very good definition of what we're talking about when we're talking about Penedès, about the great Penedès. And above all, I would like to refer to some of the statements that have been made today in this chamber, where it was valued as a very little important thing, because we are only talking about thoughts at the head and at the end. Well, I think they've listened a little bit, because that's not it, the eve of Penedès is much more, and I think that this little introduction to the front page defines it very clearly. Therefore, what we are talking about is to adapt the administrative reality to the territorial reality, a reality that gives the territory a character of unity, of unity based on geographical criteria, historical, but also sociological and economic, a diverse territory, heterogeneous, interesting, full of singularities. But precisely a few singularities that favor a complementary relationship between the municipalities. Therefore, many – many – arguments that fully justify the convenience of providing specific centrality to the territory of the Vegan Penedès. First, to promote a more efficient organization, because it adapts to what the territory is used to and considers natural; it is potent the proximity and administrative simplification, against which someone has argued. There is no sense that the four regions of the old Penedès are completely administratively segregated, as is now the case. I second – second and important – to facilitate the socio-economic development of the territory. I think we should be able to make the most of all the complementarities that exist between the territories. Here we must not forget, and some honourable Member has made no special reference, that they are trading with remarkable indexes of maturity and that, therefore, the generation of economic activity must be a priority. So, and summarizing, with the recognition of the old Penedes, what exactly are we doing? In the first place, we recognize the territorial singularity of the Penedès. And here I'd like to make an incis. I did not hear myself today in this hemicle cap – cap – argument against this territorial singularity, neither of the People's Party nor of Ciutadans, which have spoken against. Therefore, you are discussing the Law of Veighers, and this is not the debate today, today we are discussing that Catalonia has eight Veighers in place of seven that were fixed to the Law, and I believe that it has been clearly and widely argued here today. And I would also like to make a brief reference to the deputy of Ciutadans, because he has made a statement that he would like to contradict it clearly: all the countries where there has been a merger of municipalities have increased the costs, except Israel, and with the loss of proximity and depopulation that he has caused. Therefore, I recommend that you review your documentation, because here you have missed a little bit. So, well, they were saying that, in the first place, we are recognizing the territorial singularity of the Penedès, we are not discussing the Law of Vegues. Secondly, today we recognize the expression of the popular will mostly manifested for many years. And here I would like to refer to a few words that Congresswoman Teresa Vallverdú said to her intervention on 28 July, which said: "Politics are filled with meaning when I respond to the people's will. And I think that this is one of the important points that today are arguing the suitability of making this approval of this modification of the Old Age Law. Today is what we're doing: giving compliment to what the territory does more than two years ago it claims. In this sense, I would like to take the opportunity to congratulate the Platform in particular – I have already done so before, but I think it is opportune to do so again – for the Vegueria Prorópia for two years of tireless work. A demand movement to which 66 joint ventures have joined, representing 93_percent of the population; four regional councils; three business associations; 5,250 businesses, and more than twenty-thousand businesses, entities and individuals under the individual title. Finally, I would like to refer to all the Members of the Group, and I would like to say that they are Members of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes of the Territory, which we have been working together to bring forward this amendment of the Law of Vegueries: Alba Vergés, Maria Senserrich, Maria Rosell and Teresa Vallverdú. But also – also – I would like to refer to the Members and Members – a Member, concretely – who worked on this subject in the previous parliamentary term, and especially the Mayor of Vilafranca, who today accompanied us, Pere Regull. Today is a day of great happiness for many women and men who firmly believe in the need to put into value the singularities of the different territories of our country. The Penedès has to stop being peripheral to become the centre, a decentralized and well vertebrated Catalonia. We are in a moment where many Catalans and Catalans want to define the country we want. The territory of the great Penedes we want to be present in this debate, but starting with equal conditions, like the eighth time. Thank you all for listening to me, and we are going to "enjoy this moment that so many men and women of Penedès have been waiting for many years. Thank you. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.271.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lloveras. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] We're calling it a vote. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.272.0	For allusions by Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.273.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.274.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Garriga, it seems very good to us, it seems magnificent to us that you, in your task as chairman of the Governance Commission, follow the recommendations of the letters and, therefore, celebrate that you are more than the canton of obedience. What we regret is that other Members of this Parliament do not follow the recommendations of the speakers either. Thank you. [[Joan Garriga Quadres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.275.0	Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.276.0	For allusions. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.277.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.278.0	And to clarify...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.279.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.280.0	To clarify... no, no.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.281.0	Thirty seconds, Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.282.0	Just – just – say one thing, that we did not follow the indications of the spell, we took into account the indications of the spell. And we did it for most of the Bureau. [[Someone says: "Very well, you.]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.283.0	First, in the first place, we will vote on the two points of the People's Parliamentary Group, which are points 4 and 6. The vote will therefore begin. The items were rejected by 9 votes to 94, with 25 abstentions. We shall now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The proposed Law of Adaptation of the Law of Vegueries to the new region of Moianès and to the creation of the Veguerie of Penedès has been approved by 94 votes in favour, 34 against and no abstention. [[Greetings.]] [[Decree-Law No 6/2016 of 27 December 2016 on the financial needs of the public sector for budgetary prorogation]] [[203-00007/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the validation of Decree No. 6/2016 of 27 December 2016 on the financial needs of the public sector for budgetary reasons. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, this decree is presented by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Counsellor of Economy and History. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Many thanks for going out in silence and in a hurry so that we can continue the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.284.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. And while congratulating the last representatives of the Penedès that come from the room, I begin the presentation of Decree Law 6/2016 of 27 December of the financial needs of the public sector and other urgent measures for budgetary prorogation. Madam President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the Government has approved the decree, Decree Law 6/2016, of financial needs of the public sector and other urgent measures for budgetary reasons, before the end of the year 2016, until the assumptions of 2017 were more than one_months that had entered this Parliament for its processing. Certainly, they have spent two years, almost two years, since the approval of a law of assumptions. From then on, new needs arose that could not wait for the processing of the new law, since we cannot fail in many of our obligations, avoiding, if incomplete, the undesirable consequences that this fact could entail. We would have liked to have liked the validity of this decree to have been as short as possible, to have approved today's accounts and to have the resources available to the citizen already with which the Generality is counting for this year 2017. As I was saying, this law that I am presenting today will be in force until this Parliament approves the 2017 Bill of Presumptives. Until then, we ask, on behalf of the Government, that this Ple validate this standard text. The last law of assumptions of the Government of Catalonia, as we say, approved is the Law 2/2015, of March 11, of assumptions for the year 2015. As set out in Article 33 of the Law on Public Finance of Catalonia, if the 1st generation of the presumption has not been approved is considered to be automatically extended in its initial credits and until the publication of the new to the Official Diary of the Generality of Catalonia. Thus, while maintaining the situation of presupposition in the 2017 financial year, it is appropriate to adapt certain financial needs, such as situations which require public debt for their balance, to financial situations which must be authorised for a rule of law. This decree contains a single article and a final provision of entry into force. The single article responds to the unaffordable financial needs of certain public sector entities and is considered adient, also, to provide the endorsements that are provided for in the Presuppost Law Project for 2017. This is the only article with four points. The first point refers to the fact that the Government of Catalonia can formalise debt transactions with financial entities that enable the debt limit authorized in the 2015 Law of Presuppositions to be exceeded, in accordance with the debt programmes that are introduced in application of the legislation of presuppositions. The second point relates to the fact that public sector entities that have to pay depreciation allowances from financial operations can assist them by facilitating the formalisation of debt operations during the period of budgetary extension. The third point of the article refers to the fact that the government and public sector entities' debt increases will not be able to exceed the sum of the limits already authorized to the 2015 Presumables Act. And the fourth and last point of this single article authorizes the government to provide the endorsements that are provided for in the Bill of Presuppositions for 2017, such as the endorsement – in a few examples, eh? – EUR 25_million to guarantee the financing of credit-secured agricultural cooperatives. Or, another example, the endorsement of 46_million euros in prestec operations or repayable beasts granted for the State to the Scientific Park of Barcelona. Or, another example, the approval of €6_million for a long-term debt operation of the Fundació de l'Institut Català de la Recherca de l'Aigua. And other examples of this type, which I understand are giving a little bit of an idea of what is the content of these downsides. Thus, we submit to the consideration of this chamber the validation of the decree law of the financial needs of the public sector in presuppositional prorogation. Thank you very much, and we hope to count on your support so that we can perform these operations in the expectation of approval of the assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.285.0	Thank you, Vice President. To fix position, the different parliamentary groups have now, in the first place, the word the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, through its deputy Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.286.0	Thank you, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, on February 3, 2016, we voted here in this Parliament on the validation of Decree Law 4/2015, on budgetary extension, which allowed the 2015 to 2016 budgets to be extended. This was a year and five days ago. Today is February, 8, 2017 and we return to the same thing. In fact, we are going to vote on the validation of Decree Law 6/2016, of financial needs of the public sector in budget extension, but we could call it with more property« Decree Law of the second extension of the 2015 budgets, because we again vote on the extension of those 2015 budgets that we already extended in 2016. The preamble to the decree law, moreover, begins as follows: "The presentation of the assumptions of the Generalitat of Catalonia for 2017 has ended – has ended – until November 29, 2016. In other words, that the form of impersonal verb is used« it has stood up – it has stood up – the presentation has stood up. Well, they will mean: the government has delayed the submission of budgets until November 29, 2016. The Law on Public Finance of Catalonia states that the budgets must be submitted no later than 10 October. Why in Catalonia do we have to have one year after another under the convergence governments... – now, it is also true, under the secretariat of the Republican Left and Mr. Junqueras – why do we have to have seven consecutive years of budget extensions? Why can we not have timely budgets in Catalonia? On this occasion, if you remember, this already seems as always..., political today happens so quickly that today we vote on an extension of budgets, but I think it is necessary to remember why they have presented themselves late. It's just that the government was struggling to convince its anti-system partners that these budgets..., which are the very own, therefore, of autonomy, whether or not, of a country, of a western democracy with a capitalist system, that it has to generate enough income, to moderate enough expenditure and to cater, with those revenues of the state and that which saves from unnecessary items, it has to attend to the citizens, above all to provide services of education, justice, social assistance, it has to do infrastructure, it has to attend to many important expenses. Of course, if the leader of the negotiation of these budgets is a political party that, with all due respect to their political choice, they are set up as an anti-system option that decides their things in assemblies, for that certainly makes it very difficult to present budgets on time. That's basically what happened here. This year. Other years we don't know what was going on, because, I mean, this was the seventh. You will do well to the tripartite because the last budgets that were submitted in time were precisely the last of the tripartite, those of 2010. From then on, not once have they presented themselves in time. Furthermore, in the meantime, what happens instead of presenting on 10 October, as was due, what was done with the parliamentary groups? I don't want them at all. We weren't given any information. The information was given in pills through the media. Thus they were: "They will be the most social budgets in history! We are going to have an impressive social spending! They were launching the propaganda, but they didn't give explanations where they had to give them. In that they also spent time and in that, and for that reason, they took time to submit budgets. And that leads us to consider the Government's consideration of a tool as important as budgets, when a part of the State is administered as an autonomy. Budgets are an essential instrument of the rule of law, because they involve economic transformation, the economic reserve that is given to carry out a government program. They are also..., imply the authorization of the other parliamentary groups, which are representatives of citizenship, authorization or opposition, but at least an authorization of a sufficient majority to carry out the distribution of public money in the priorities that are set. They are a forecast of revenue and a forecast of expenditure, and therefore one of the main democratic functions with them is that thanks to budgets you can control public money, where it goes and government action. That is why budgets have always been so important. The first budgets in Spain were precisely those of the Cortes de Cadiz. There were no budgets in Spain until the first Constitution of Cadiz of 1812 established them. And the first budgets there were... by the way, that inaugural session of the Courts of Cadiz was presided over by Ramon Llàtzer of Dou i de Bassols, who was a Barcelonan who then died in Cervera and who was a liberal who was a supporter of that first budget. It was not easy, that notion of budget in Spain, in fifty years, then there were only fifteen years in which there were budgets, and it was precisely when the liberal political forces ruled. Those first liberals were the first to have the notion that money had to be distributed according to the priorities of the people and not of the monarch. It is therefore a conquest of democracy; not of democracy, but of the sense of citizenship and people, and of the sovereignty of the people, which is reflected in some budgets, in those budgets for which you prove to have so little respect. I have also told you that some budgets, such as the control tool of what the government does... I cannot, let us say, stop talking here, even if we are at headquarters, about budget extension. First of all, I blame the opposition and the very figure of budgets for this little consideration, and secondly, we cannot fail to refer here to, after all the extension that we have had..., or you are being forced to do, the budgets that you have submitted do not fulfil that main task which must have budgets, which is to be absolutely subject to the control of the representative body of the citizens. And they don't do it because it contains opaque matches. That principle of control you do not comply with. And they don't do it because contingency funds this time amount to 330_million, which is 130_million_of_euro more than in the previous year, and those 130_million_of_euro we won't be able to control them properly. Just as we cannot properly control, because of the difficulty of the ambiguous and inconcrete technique used to draft these budgets, how much money – how much money – in the end, of the Department of Presidency and of your Department, Mr Junqueras, of Economy, how much is going..., how much is the cost of the Institut d'Estudis d'Autogovern, the Office per a Millora de les Institucions d'Autogovern, the Interdepartmental Commission, the Secretary of..., the Company of Autogovern; in the end, those opaque offices that you have there retributing to Mr. Liver Pi-Sunyer so that we carry out all the work that we then ask you here and do not draw clear water from what you are really doing, from whom you are paying and in what you are spending everyone's money. Therefore, that, plus the computer bubble that we have already denounced, which is that it is 400_million that is spent by the Generalitat in computer science, which is the same thing that the entire Department of Culture has. That budget: 400_million, in computer science. Why? By making databases, perhaps? We don't know, and that's the problem. You have no respect for the parliamentary and democratic tool of the budgets because you ultimately show that you have no respect for this House, for the Catalans, or, in fact, for your democratic controls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.287.0	Thank you, Congressman. Also, to fix positions, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has now the word MP Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.288.0	Thank you, President; good afternoon, Vice President. So, well, as Congressman Carrizosa said, we are here today to approve or not the presuppositional prorogation that you present to us, a presuppositional prorogation that you present to us here today because you have not been able to approve assumptions, to approve assumptions when you touch, because the presuppositional prorogation is an extraordinary element, an extraordinary instrument that is used when the government is not able to set aside, the 1st of a generation, a presupposition. And the truth is that what is extraordinary and exceptional ended up turning into the norm, into this Parliament. There are a lot of strange things going on in this Parliament, and one is this, that since 2011 we haven't approved a presupposition at the time. We've been doing presuppositional prorogations, 2011, the 12, the 13, the 14, the 15, the 16 and the 17 as well. Or let's be a few years old of abnormality, and maybe it would be worth it if the government were to be set up – and now, the new government, which is doing it all now just a year ago – if we couldn't be able to cover the fact that the 1st generation entered into the march a assumption that the new government is developing, because at these times we're going to make an extension because we don't know when the new assumption is going to go. And I want to tell him, because he seemed to announce it at his intervention, that responsibility... - and I always tell him, huh? , Mr Junqueras, I am very heavy, I know – the responsibility to present and approve assumptions at the time is of the Government, only of the Government – the responsibility and obligation is of the Government. And, therefore, the fact that the year has been present to us without one extension and this year we have another, so, it's irresponsible of him. I understand – I understand – Mr Junqueras, that the CUP does not make it easy, because, of course, the decision of the CUP to know whether or not it raises some assumptions led us to the 28th generation having an assembly there and you decide something. They seem to have decided that yes, and so the assumptions pull forward. But we also lived a few days ago in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs as the CUP, explicitly or implicitly, made more than 1,200 opposition issues thrive. So, I don't know if this assumption, with these incorporations, will make your Junts for the Yes, will make your Government, won't it? Therefore, exceptional things happen and extraordinary things happen in this Parliament, and the truth is that it wouldn't be too bad to pose a bit of normality. I, therefore, that the 1st gene enters into a set of assumptions, which is the date on which they touch. For the time being, we haven't been able to do this in the last few years, and now, so, there's a longer extension for... – let's remember, right? , and they say so – to extend the 2015 one, huh? , that was a assumption made by the President But with Convergence and Unity to the Government ; is that true, with the support of Esquerra, eh? But I want to say that it's time for the whole thing, so many things to happen in this Parliament that is a long way from 2015; but in any case, we are going to extend this assumption. It is true that this decree that you present to us is shorter, shorter than that of the previous year, because, in fact, it only speaks of financial needs, because the other one, therefore, is already extended, and it is also curious that it is only about this, and has a logic, right? And you say that in your report, don't you? – the importance of covering the financial needs in which the Administration of the Generality..., and I read it textually: « Neither the Administration of the Generality nor its participating entities may incur incompliments, nor for a moment, of its obligations vis-à-vis the financial entities, because the clauses of the contracts financed penalize the incompliments, including those produced with third parties, with advance payments and corresponding obligation to pay. And we understand it perfectly. I think most of us here understand that we have to deal with these payments and these losses of the debts we have with third parties. What I don't know is whether this will make the CUP so clear, that I assume you have to vote for this decree. But in any case, I don't know if this explanation, that in the end it's the key argument because this decree is approved by you, because you allow, say, to suit the government's financial needs to pay these dues, I don't know if this is what the CUP agrees with. I don't know if there's a lot of agreement between you, because sometimes it goes into contradiction, and I'm saying that because one of your proposals in the Bill of Measures is to eliminate, delete the Presuppositional Enabling Law. With this I suppose the CUP does agree. So, frankly, sometimes one ends up losing track of you, because in the morning we eliminate the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, but in the late days we approve a decree that says that in order to be completed, obviously, with the payment of debts to third parties, therefore, it is necessary to adapt some financial needs. So, anyway, all folded up sometimes looks like a little surreal. But, as I said, the responsibility of approving assumptions to the generation is his; they did not know how to carry it to term, they did not know how to do it in 2016, which in an unusual way did not approve the assumption, and now, in 2017, they have not continued. That's why we're going to have a presuppositional extension here again. We could say they didn't do the job when they touched them and maybe they didn't do it well. And I wonder why I see Mr. Pere Aragonès in the gallery, that in the end it will seem that I think the most of the account, but it is true that I think that he is a very good secretary of the Economy and we know of his rigour, but neither does he think that the assumptions or that the work is done well or when he touches, right? He sure puts all his will and all his knowledge into it, but the truth is that the situation with which we find ourselves is this. It presents us, as I said, a pressurised decree with a single article to adapt these needs financed, with some more elements, with the downstream performance that the Generalitat is now doing in the accounts of the ICF; some elements that could, therefore, be logical to collect and to give support. But for the elements that he explained to them and the previous arguments, we cannot support this decree, this decree of extension. We think what you should do is bring the assumption when it comes to it. And honestly, I'll tell you, we talked about this decree today. It's true that I probably didn't touch to trick us for nothing, did I? But... well, trick us through the law decree, don't trick us into negotiating papers, don't trick us into presenting the premise... so one at the end also thinks it's a little important. And, therefore, our "not to this decree has all the meaning and is consistent with what we said a few weeks ago, and in any case, neither will you, therefore, know it very hard. I imagine it's because they have the support of the UPC. Also a surprising support reading the legal reports accompanying this decree. In any case, we're so good at the presupposition here. Let's see what the assumption is, let's see what we can bring to fruition, but what we would demand is that if we actually or finally, then we can keep them for a year longer and, therefore, there are no early elections, that the year you see, the 1st generation, if we can have a premise in the way. And, therefore, I look to do the work when I touch and I look to do the work well, because surely the Catalans will also like it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.289.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.290.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice-President, you present us another time with a decree of presuppositional prorogation as a mere technical question, as a mere presuppositional delay, but it is not and you know it. Unless I consider it a technical issue, the debt situation that the Government of the Generality is facing today, with a public debt, will make it come to us concretely, but it can be close to EUR 80,000_million, of which I would like to remind you that two thirds are in debt to the Spanish State. And I'm saying it now to get back after a later reflection. This presuppositional extension, in our view, sets out the situation of difficult political instability experienced by the Catalan Government since 2010, and the dual language of the Government and of the groups that support it. One more year it is necessary for approval and discussion of assumptions to be made in an exceptional situation. We're carrying seven years in a presuppositional foreclosure. The last ones, it has been said here, were approved with time in agreement with the Law of Taxation, with the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia, were the ones of 2010. From then on, all the others have been promptly or definitively extended for the inability to approve the assumptions. From this point of view, let's do a little memory and memories of what happened in these seven years, because I think it's enough to guess, to figure out what's going to happen, too, during 2017, because in Catalonia it's almost all repeated, it's almost nothing new, from this point of view. You must remember that the first assumptions of the government of Mas, of the « government of the best, in 2011, were approved with the abstention of the People's Party. The 2012 is already approved, the month of February, with the favorable vote of the People's Party. To make a memory, remember? It was that year of the quid pro quo, "You give me, I make up for you. Some voted for the assumptions..., the PP voted for the assumptions in Catalonia and the Omnibus Law, which dismantled the action of the tripartite and, among other things, the Housing Law of which everyone today is vain and which has had to be removed from the cyst in order to face the situation of housing emergence. And CiU, in compensation, voted in Spain all that was put forward: laws on fiscal stability, labour reform and energy reform. And he didn't vote any more because he didn't propose to him. The elections of November 25, 2012, called to enlarge the majority, exactly provoked the opposite and the consequence was that 2013 there were no presuppositions in Catalonia. Why? Quite obvious: It needed to change government partners, it needed to change the pair of balls, and that needed time. Moving from hugging the PP to making friends with the Republican Left keeping the same politics is not something that can be easily done. It requires a good inn on stage, it requires continuous work, it requires that the media division to Ithaca do its job well. It can't be done in two telenews, that requires a little pocket. And also Esquerra Republicana, the party that you preside over, needed a time of adaptation, because going from being the opposition to being the main support of the government, but without being the head of the opposition, is something that even to a very hybrid policy like you..., it's not a simple thing, I mean it's supposed to be; and, therefore, the 2013 couldn't be: it came to wait for 2014. Remember that those assumptions of 2014 were once again exceptional assumptions. For some, they were so exceptional because they maintained retail policies, because they continued with public service privatization policies, and because they authorized the government's largest sale of assets. Certainly, a sale of public assets of the Generalitat that I hope someday someone in the accounts, because we already have data that has been, from the point of view of assets, quite ruinous. But for some others the exceptional situation was of another calibre. For you, for the people of the Republican Left of Catalonia, the argument for which were to be approved those assumptions that maintained the same policy of the Government of the best and that had collected the PP were others. I want to remind you of your words, Mr Junqueras: "We vote for these assumptions because they are the last autonomic assumptions, in 2014. The 2015 will already be the ones of the State, of a new state: the Catalan State. Are they sounding to you of some kind of music? The sounds of some recent music, of those that have been played constantly? Yeah, me, huh? Because it's the same thing that's happening at these times with regard to 2017's assumptions. This is the subject he raised and, obviously – obviously – what went on has nothing to do with this reality. As is happening at this time, the only difference, in my view, and with respect for the role of each parliamentary group, is that the space that at that time made the City lead the policy of supposition now the Republican Left, and the space that left the Republican Left of Catalonia free now is occupied by the CUP with very similar arguments. The guide is the same, only the actors change. From this point of view, this way of supporting the Government by continuing to oppose it is a practice that is being maintained. We're getting to the 2015 assumptions. Recordin, huh? They were assumptions that gave continuity – they gave continuity – to policies of privatization, sale of assets, privatization of public services, retailing. It's not just my opinion or the Parliamentary Initiative Group - the United Left and Alternative. I want to bring the opinion that at the time David Fernández, the spokesman of the UPC, issued in that debate: "These are the assumptions of the fanaticism of austerity and a declaration of war to the popular classes. 2015's, huh? These that we extend and that continue to mark our reality. But in change, you, Convergence and Unity and Republican Left presented them another time as the later autonomic assumptions. That time yes, that time yes it would be true: the 2016 ones already set a completely different thing. You're obviously not like that. It is clear that these assumptions have always been the case: retailing, privatization, the sale of assets and a policy that has nothing to do with progress policies. We arrive at 2016, like it's more recent I guess no one must have forgotten what happened in 2016. Allow me to tell you that I believe that the 2016 assumptions have a certain similarity to the 2013 assumptions. It was a little more time because those who had qualified the 2015 assumptions as an unprecedented attack on the popular classes and, above all, a declaration of war, therefore, had a time of maturity and might end up voting for different assumptions but maintaining these same lines. And that's what seems to happen with the assumptions of 2017. I insist, the guide is the same, only the actors change, which logically has been renewed and occupied some of the other's spaces. Some assumptions, if said now – are said now – that are made, and even some raise the need to ask for sacrifices from the popular classes because they are essential because this Parliament can only approve a law of legal transition that opens the way for us to a new status. Excuse me, huh? They can change a few words, but it is that the speech continues to feel exactly five years ago the same from this perspective. And above all – and above all – he's up on an absolute fiction. We have said this many times, because you are now presenting us with a presuppositional prorogation to arrive at an approval of the assumptions, but an approval of the assumptions that it is possible to contain in your apartment that says that the Law of Presuppositional Enabling, together with the Law of Fiscal Measures, is repealed, and, at the same time, there are some issues that are the sea of the ous of the pact between the CUP and Juntas for the Yes that you are literally saying that "all social policies that are agreed will be financed from a debt process that will be agreed with the presuppositional enabling laws, that – according to Article 14.3 of the said – must be authorized by the Lord Mount. Okay. I only ask one thing, Mr Junqueras, if possible, do not coincide with the day. That the day you went late to ask for Mr Montoro's authorization for this debt is not the same day that this Parliament of Catalonia approved the law of legal transition for the morning. It wouldn't be the first time that this happens because you're always so close to being in fiction. So, well, the president of our group said that today, it's... no. Look, listen, we're collecting the reference, we're willing to fight to the end, we're willing to get social assumptions. Of course, how do we say that? There will be no social assumptions as long as there is no tax reform that allows you to pay the most needed to finance the needy of the most needy. Everything else can't be; not even the debt to Mr Montoro, which you know is conditioned to complete a public deficit. And he's conditioned, in addition, that every month you're besieged by an assisted breathing cord with which the FLA gave him certain resources. No, look, listen, disobedience, it says what it says, and submission at the same time can't be, except you don't believe in dry water. I know that, for you, these things have proved for many years that they are capable of doing them. But, well, I don't know; if people continue to think that this is possible, so, look, we'll congratulate you from that perspective. Well, as you can imagine, we can't give him our visa. For two reasons. First, you did the presuppositional debate in a miniature parliament; that is, of seventy-two Members, is it not? So, now, I'm sorry; you can't come and ask the others to approve of something that you never allowed us to intervene there; you wanted to see it only with your members of the CUP. It's legitimate, isn't it? , absolutely legitimate, but then don't come after us to look for this. And second question. We will not give the visa to an extension of the assumptions that, dressed in authorization of needy funds [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , carries the extension...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.291.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.292.0	... – I finish, two words, only two – of assumptions that suppose very clearly, in words of friend David Fernàndez, an aggression without precedent to the popular classes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.293.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.294.0	...of this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.295.0	...door twenty-five words. [[Rialles.]] Aren't they due? [[Pause.]] Thank you. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.296.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies, to position us in relation to this ill-named presuppositional prorogation decree. And now I'm going to explain, all the while, why didn't you name it wrong? First of all, I agree with many of the things that have already been said. The second..., I insist on the colloquial denomination of "presuppositional extension; even though it is strictly not a presuppositional extension, it is the second of 2015. So, let's accumulate this..., somehow it's referenduming the 2015 assumptions for one side. On the other hand, it's seven times, the seven exercise that hasn't been able to have some assumptions approved on date, that's to say that the 1st gener can be in effect. And I do allow myself to make a simple correction, very briefly, to Mr Coscubiela, and it is 2012, as in 2011, anyway, Convergence and Union approved the assumptions with the abstention of the People's Party; not the favorable vote, as you said. But he strictly said that this is not an extension because the extension of assumptions is automatic, according to the Law of Public Finance of Catalonia. If the 1st gene has not approved some new assumptions, the ones of the previous year are automatically extended. What is done in this decree and what has been done in the decrees that in the day of extension of previous exercises is to authorize the Government to formulate certain debt transactions. Well, we also have to say that, in situations of presuppositionary restrictions as they have in previous exercises, these decrees are used to also entail a limitation of the claims that the Government can dispose of. It's not this case. The screenplay, fortunately, is very different, and therefore, there is no such restriction. But the decree that it does is to authorize the Government to formulate certain debt transactions, precisely to attend to the depreciations of the debt that are necessary in the period that there may be from the beginning of the presuppositional prorogation, 1 of generation, until the time the assumptions are adopted. It's magnificent. We assume you have the support of the CUP to refer this decree to the law to authorize major debt and to pay the depreciations of the debt, which is very consistent on the part of the government and I suppose that on the part of the CUP too. He calls our attention – he calls our attention – especially the fact that, when the government approves this decree, they have already presented the assumptions in this Parliament, and therefore the parliamentary process has begun. And this sees "how much in the sense that an authorization to the Government is incorporated into this decree to grant endorsements that, as it is said, are provisions that are already included in the Bill of Presumptions presented in the Government. There was little confidence in the Government to approve the 2017 assumptions when, once presented in Parliament, they included in the decree the prediction of these endorsements in case those 2017 assumptions do not end up being approved. Our group will vote against this decree. Basically the vote against it is, one, because of the way the government has handled the assumptions, but also to process the law decree; we assume, therefore, that it has a parliamentary majority enough to do so. The fact that this majority of Parliament did not give it to present the assumptions and approve them in form. But also because the symbolic fact of giving support to this decree supposes you to refer to the assumptions of 2015, which also did not have the support of our parliamentary group. And, therefore, our position will be against the validation of this decree. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.297.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.298.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. In fact, when we discussed with the parliamentary group what to do, one of the storms we had was to say: "Go away on the day of sessions on February 3, 2016, and we have already finished the intervention and return to our sister. But having listened to some of the things that have been said, we can't be saying some things. The first, and for Mr. Carrizosa, is just an anecdote which, since you have spoken of the president of the Courts of Cadiz, Ramon Llàtzer de Dou, is curious that you, coming from one view, of the political force you see, is handed over to Ramon Llàtzer de Dou, who in 1811 said that « to Catalonia it was treated as conquered province, referring to that after 1714 the Principality had paid much more, in relation to its population, than the crown of Castella. It's funny, if not, huh? We don't usually make references to these, but he thanked us, and we thought it was interesting to put it on the table. Femin history, and now it is. But beyond that, we'll do..., and we'll say we can take the past year's session log, so we'll do exactly the same as we did the past year. Consistent with what we said and we did the past year, but also in coherence, despite the fact that someone thinks that we don't, with what we said in 2015 about the assumptions of 2015, because we're still thinking exactly the same as the assumptions of 2015, we're still thinking exactly the same as the Presumption Bill of 2016 and we're still thinking exactly the same as the assumptions of 2017, which we said by active and passive. So that doesn't change anything. And if anyone has any doubts, here's my right hand, here's my left hand; let's face it, let's face it, let's face it, it's not that my right hand writes one thing and the left hand votes another; let's work and go face it all. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And yes, it went for you, Mr. Coscubiela, because on Twitter you see everyone. And I take this opportunity to say: it is not with the right hand that we write a speech of criticism to the government and with the left hand we decide to vote on assumptions; it is with two hands, that they communicate, we work and say things there, on the street and here, whenever necessary. That said, before the debate about the debt, the deficit..., which also emerges repeatedly, also because of the speech that long ago..., and continues to make the UPC, which we criticize is the exponential increase, like a snowball, of the public debt since the year 2007 until now, and we criticize the increase in debt made to the citizenry and made it to enrich a few. The public debt and the public deficit are not bad. I mean, in fact, we'd have to figure out what the public deficit is, and if we're defending that we're against the deficit tops imposed by Montoro and the troika in the background, we do think it's public. What we do today is to pay off that debt that is illegitimate, that which has contracted out of the country and that which has caused a few to get rich. And, therefore, that we analyze all the policies of the later two years of the Government of Catalonia. Because it's obvious that more deficit is more debt, but it's also obvious that tickets can increase. And they still have margin. Mr. Junqueras, you have the margin, yet. It is possible to raise it now; taking into account that for the time being the Socialist Party has entered or made recourse to the Council of State Guarantees and finally Citizens and PP have agreed to do so, it has the margin because its government and the group that gives it support, Together for the Yes, really approach this debate once and for all. Because it's not just a matter of weakness, or limits of the State in which we live, and therefore of autonomy, and how we live with our targets and how the Generality is intervened, but it's also a question of political will and that the tools we have at our disposal, like the Generality, in a situation of autonomous context, take advantage of them all. And from now on, you know, and you know it perfectly well, they didn't do it and they didn't want to do the debate. So they have time. We take advantage of these weeks that there is scope for making this debate and addressing it at a time for all this opportunity to increase entrances, beyond what we approve of today's decree or what may be approved at the time the Law of Presuppositions is in place. And this is the element that needs to be taken into account. I mean, it's not just a question that the assumptions will be social if there's a tax reform. I think some forces here should suck a lot more. It is not just a matter of making them social, because there is a tax reform and because who has the most to pay, which is not happening now either to Catalonia or to the Spanish State, but it is a matter of addressing assumptions that respond to social needs, and it is a matter of discussing an economic policy debate, as it does, and therefore that we understand that talking about debt or talking about disability is a question that talked about social needs, talked about social classes and class differences, talked about who has been at the expense of rights and the needs of thousands of people for years. And that's what we need to talk about or think we need to talk about when we're talking about this decree, when we're talking about assumptions and when we're talking about economic policy here. And to go a little further than everyone else, to govern the government of the Generality, in the last few years, has gone: to be able to approach at once for all what economic sovereignty means. And economic sovereignty is not just about building a republic; economic sovereignty is about making a debate about how we owe and, therefore, how we generate money. It is to say, to make a debate..., to talk about economic sovereignty is to make a debate about what the European Union is, what the economic policies of the European Community mean, what they have meant and what they will mean for the popular classes of this country. And this is the debate that, if we're talking about sovereignty, we need to have, and this is the idea that we want to raise today that we're talking about the decree of law, and that we knew that, in the background, we'd end up talking about assumptions. We do not want to talk today about the assumptions of 2017; today we are talking about economic policies, about debt, about deficit and how in this Parliament we can also make a real debate on what it means to be sovereigns in a European Community, in a European Union that dictates economic policies against the popular classes – especially in southern Europe, but throughout Europe – and what it means to be economic sovereigns in a world that is absolutely subordinate to the economic markets, which it does for the interests of a few and to systematically detail the rights of the popular classes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.299.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.300.0	Thank you, President. First observation, which I think is mandatory, for which we have heard today and which we already imagined we could listen, first observation, therefore. If we are to face this debate on the presupposition of the 2015 assumptions, it is to say, to widen the 2015 assumptions a little further, it is the responsibility of the parliamentary groups. It's his responsibility. We had the opportunity to open a debate to raise some assumptions for 2016, and most of these groups decided that this debate would not be opened, that this parliamentary debate would not be useful, and that, therefore, it would be better to continue with the 2015 assumptions. These presuppositions are so bad that Mr Coscubiela painted them to us it turns out that if today they are also the responsibility of all the groups that in this chamber, at that time, they voted against the debate of certain presuppositions that, among other things, raised 1,200_million euros more for social policies. And, above all, another more structural, more substantive, and certainly more important thing: they assumed a political shift in focus with regard to public finances, a paradigm shift that was already surpassing, overcoming austerity to settle in another scene, another scener that with this Project of assumptions of 2017 reinforces and, therefore, finally, consolidates. But it was not possible, because at that time most groups, I insist, decided that this debate is not taking place. In any case, the presuppositional extension is one of the 2015 assumptions, but it's a piece tool, used and designed to be purely a momentary piece in the hope that some presuppositions will come in. It is a tool, therefore, that the Government has at its disposal, since the extension is approved automatically in order to be able to reinforce with law rank those dispositions that must be made compulsory at the time, in the temporal parentheses, in which there is still no new presumption, in which there is still no presumption of 2017. And in any case, there's still no assumption of 2017 among other things, and basically, and that's why he presented it when he presented the project, because the government of the state gave the data on the financing model when he gave them. And that didn't just affect the Generality of Catalonia, it didn't just affect the Parliament of Catalonia. This affected the group of autonomous communities of the Spanish State, autonomous communities, by the way, where people of their parties, their companies, in short, are either in the government or give support to the government. Also in these cases the assumptions were presented when they could be presented, because the State gave the data when it gave them. Therefore, here it is evident that there is a responsibility on the part of the Ministry of Hisenda, on behalf of Mr Montoro, for why the assumptions were presented when they were presented. And in any case, a time passed that moment, what should have happened is that today, precisely today, precisely in this plenary, we can approve the assumptions of 2017. And, therefore, this little resort that must have this presuppositional extension..., it would be limited, it would be very short, because today we would already have the presuppositions for 2017. But that couldn't be. That can't be, we can't approve the 2017 assumptions today. Basically, basically, because some groups of this chamber have decided to ask the Council for statutory guarantees. I, escort'm, it's legitimate, I'd just miss it. It is very legitimate, very legitimate, to go to the Board of State Guarantees to ask for an opinion. I'd just miss it, and go ahead. It's legitimate. But it's sad too. It's sad to try to block, try to stick to the wheels to approve assumptions only for a 0.02_per_cent of the expense. His obsession to prevent democracy, his obsession to not let us vote, his obsession because Catalans and Catalans this 2017 cannot decide our future, makes them go to the Council of State Guarantees. And I insist: it's very legitimate, obviously it's very legitimate. But it's sad. It is sad because, among other things, this supposes that we will have to wait a few more weeks because the citizens of Catalonia, because the families of this country, can dispose of the 1,350_million euros more in social investment, in social policies, that previews this project. For a 0.02_percent of the assumption that they make us, the one who makes them democracy, avoid that we have 1,350_million euros at the disposal of the most vulnerable in this country. And that, obviously, from Ciutadans and PP, which they had already announced, we expected. It must be said that we expected it, minus the PSC. It is true that in the field of right to decide, from this point of view, we no longer expect very little, from the PSC. Because, in fact, today has proved itself. They've already abandoned what President Montilla said or even what his group president said a few months ago. So we didn't expect much. But this time they had the opportunity to allow these assumptions, so that they put themselves on the side of the right to decide and to put themselves on the side of all the families waiting for these 1,350_million euros in social policies, and they have sorted themselves on the side of parliamentary filibusterism, we could say so, on the side of the immobilists. That's how they sorted it. Presuppositional extension... By all means! - By all means! – Presuppositional prorogation: if I am not mistaken, the Spanish State, the Government of the State, is also in presuppositional prorogation, and already said President Rajoy, and in fact someone makes reference that external political conditions to this chamber ended up affecting the processing of presuppositions in this Parliament..., so, well, Mr Rajoy has already said that this, in any case, in the summer, that if we let the PP congress pass first and then we will talk about presuppositions. We will see if, at the end of the Spanish State, they have also assumed it, because, I insist, for the time being they are in presupposition. Anyway, I insist, this is a technical debate. The extension is automatic, but to enable the Generality to carry out debt operations such as this law, debt operations which, among other things, and which refers to Mr. Carrizosa, will allow, for example, to increase in the assumptions of 2017 the contingency. And, among other things, the increase of the contingency fund will serve, for example, to be able to address the 35_per_cent payment of the 2012 extra pay that still has to be able to get, that they have to be able to collect, the employees of this country. Therefore, the contingency fund also serves this, Mr. Carrizosa. And I would also like to refer to, I would say, a falsehood that was repeated today by Mr Coscubiela, but we have heard it at other times from other groups: this falsehood that says that in order to put into practice these interdepartmental foundations, "structural foundations, said you, social foundations, in short, cross-cutting foundations of the Government of the Generality, we must ask permission from the Minister of Hisenda, Minister Montoro. This is fake, it's grossly fake, it's not true. They lie about it. Listen to me, the financing of these funds is fully guaranteed. In fact, it already exists in the Generalitat of Catalonia with this tenth of the more with which it has increased the soustre of deficit, a tenth more than, we remember, still feel unfair, but it generates 212_million euros more at the disposal of the Generalitat, which, among other things, will finance these interdepartmental foundations. Therefore, it is plainly false that no one should be allowed to apply these grounds. What happens, however, is that in reality these foundations are an important social adventure. We came from assumptions with a high social content, which is reinforced with these transactions that we have made with the CUP, and you, as if you cannot criticize the foundation of the foundations, worth the redundancy, is to say, the content of which these foundations plant, what you do is that we have to ask Mr Montoro permission. And that, Mr. Coscubila, is definitely false. I end up with a historical precision, if they want, or a comment about a fact that Mr. Carrizosa explained, that to speak of a presuppositional prorogation 2017_has had to make reference to the Courts of Cadis. He spoke that the Courts of Cadis for the first time had granted a government the opportunity to make public spending, the opportunity to be indebted. In fact, the trajectory, the parliamentary tradition, on the Iberian peninsula sees much earlier, and sees, among others, for example, and above all, the Catalan Courts. It was the Catalan Courts, in the 13th century, which for the first time allowed King Pere III to be in debt. It was simply a precision, since you referred to the Courts of Cadis as if parliamentarism and democracy had then begun. I refer him to a lot of episodes and a lot of milestones.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.301.0	Mr. Torrent, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.302.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.303.0	Call it a vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.304.0	Thank you, President. To make use of... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.305.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.306.0	To make use of the right under Article 85 of the Rules of Procedure, in relation to direct, repeated allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.307.0	Thirty seconds, Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.308.0	Do I have to ask... for each of the allusions? Because they're from two different groups. We can place it here within the limit of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.309.0	Answer the allusions, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.310.0	Thank you. Well, Mr. Torrent, as much as you intend to dress the silk mona, in the items that you have traded..., you literally say that these funds will be financed with credit operations in accordance with the policy of budgetary stability of the Spanish State..., which in your article 14.3 says that they will require authorization from this State. I said, "Montoro," I meant the Spanish State. Anyway, let me tell you something. I agree with my friend Eulàlia. I am myself, my circumstances and my contradictions. And so, as I have them, they don't ask others not to have them. I only say one thing: that it seems to me very complicated to constantly defend a policy of disobedience, rebellion, before the policies of presuppositional stabilization and to sign after transactions in which the financing of these policies precisely depends on a debt to be authorized by the Spanish Government. That said, I'm in the best position, and I want to give the CUP company this layout. I think you're right, my friend Eulàlia. They still have time to settle the matter. Before, the president, this morning, was saying why we didn't want the assumptions. Mr President – Mr President: three items only. Three exams. You vote for three of us, and we approve of the assumptions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.311.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.312.0	The three that make reference to taxation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.313.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.314.0	Makes you pay more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.315.0	... those thirty-seconds give for a lot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.316.0	...that they have most and we will vote for these assumptions. But they make them pay more than they have...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.317.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.318.0	...to meet the needs of those most in need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.319.0	According to Rule 155.3 of the Rules, it is understood that the votes claimed are in favour of the validation of the decree and the votes denied are in favour of the denial of the decree. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Mr. Torrent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.320.0	No, anyway, after, let's say, the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.321.0	Yes, thirty-seconds, but it's thirty-seconds, Mr. Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.322.0	I'll try, I'll try, I'll do thirty seconds. Mr. Coscubiela, I see you insist. In any case, we make ourselves available to explain it to you. I tried to explain it here, but we'll explain it again. And in any case I propose one thing: votes in favour of the assumptions and you will see how wrong you are in their application. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.323.0	Next, let's vote on the validation of the law decree. The vote begins. The decree was approved by 65 votes to 60, with 5 abstentions. With the result, the decree is validated, and, according to Rule 155.4 of the Rules, I ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants it to be passed as a bill. [[Pause.]] No, I don't. As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Bills for equal treatment and non-discrimination (totality debate)]] [[200-00023/11]] The item on the agenda is: total debate on the Bill for equal treatment and non-discrimination. In accordance with Article 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, she presents the initiative, on behalf of the Government, Ms. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families. As long as no papers have been submitted to the bill, we will proceed to the turn of interventions to fix the positioning. In the first place, has the word the Lady Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.324.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, good afternoon, the ones you've been with us. The phrase: "All human beings need free and equal in dignity and rights is how the first article of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, proclaimed by the United Nations General Assembly on 10 December 1948, begins. It could find many references and many examples of international norms – Rome Convention, international covenants–, but the most appropriate is to speak of the Catalonian State of Autonomy, which provides that public authorities must promote conditions for the freedom and equality of the individual and of the groups in which they are integrated to be real and effective; that the participation of all people in political, economic, cultural and social life is to be facilitated; and that public authorities must age for dignity, security, full protection of people, especially the most vulnerable. And that's what we're coming to propose to you because we're doing it all: that Parliament is in favor of people. There are several collections that have historically suffered discrimination and violence for various reasons: by sexual identity, by race, by culture or religion, or by social conception of inferiority at a certain time; we can even talk about women or persons with functional diversity, among others. The Catalan society has always been characterized by values of inclusion and social cohesion, which are based on respect for diversity in all its futures. And this is the master line of policies that we develop directly from the department: the fight against inequalities and the promotion of equality and opportunities for people, which is currently focused on direct issues, in direct attention to vulnerable people, recognition of determined collections, recognition, for example, of the Gypsy people, of migrants, refugees, development and defence of the rights of LGBTI people, measures of equality in work, meaning harm to action focused on the care of people with disabilities, or children, adolescents at risk, or large people and people with mental illness, among many others. As you know, on the 10th generation, the government was going to approve the text that I'm presenting to you today, it's the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Bill, and we're going to demand that it's an emergency procedure. This text responds to the need to achieve the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of religion, belief, disability, age, racial or ethnic origin, identity or sexual orientation, or by any other social or personal condition of persons, generating instruments that promote positive measures of respect for diversity, an inter-departmental and interinstitutional action plan and the creation of an independent body that serves to compliment the plan. That is to say, the text establishes the basic principles for the performance of public powers to pursue the eradication of racism, xenophobia, homophobia or any expression of discrimination, both in the public and private sectors, in accordance with the competences we have in the Government. This rule pretends to be a law of total protection of individual rights, because our objective is no more than, first, to combat any act of discrimination; second, to protect the possible victims, and third, to promote concrete actions that tend to see with everything that represents awareness, prevention and repair of evil. I think we would all agree that this is an absolutely necessary bill and that it fills a legal void that should be covered; therefore, I have no doubt about it. Addressed to all public institutions, to private individuals or legal entities, the draft law therefore has a broad scope of application: from the scope of work and labour relations to the statutory rules of staff to the services of public administrations and professional organizations, cultural and sports, but also to education, social protection, social services and services, health care, access to public goods and services, advertising and communication media, immigration, integration and integration, associations and foundations and cooperatives, culture and any other areas of the generality's competence. The draft Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination provides that both public authorities and enterprises and other organisations must adapt two measures: one, pre-discrimination protection, with the obligation to apply methods and instruments to detect violations of the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination, and the other, preventive measures or the cessation of discriminatory situations that may arise. Therefore, there is a rule of offences and penalties that must allow us to get to where the criminal right is not above, when it is a matter of circumstances or of jurisdictions where it is not regulated. This draft law also responds to a European concern, responds to a concern that..., I would like to recall that the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution, on July 2013, in which it already requires the Spanish State to approve urgently a global anti-discrimination law, which it has not yet done. It is also based on other international rules in favour of equal treatment, such as, for example, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Social, Economic and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations General Assembly and other sectoral legislation, such as the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, which we celebrated this year in 2016. Our goal, therefore, is to achieve full equality between people, regardless of our origin, sex or physical and mental abilities. Remembering a little bit of that bill... it's what was approved at the end of the previous legislature, but he lacked the consent of the entities and of civil society. That's why this past year we started a public participation process to collect all those contributions from the citizenry and the associated fabric that are in defense of civil rights, because we thought that all contributions to enriching the text are necessary. We also hope that all those new contributions to the Equality Commission that could make this bill go into the best law on equality. With this bill we want to place Catalonia among the most advanced states of our circle, which count on institutions, legal instruments and techniques of equal treatment and non-discrimination most effective and advanced. Therefore, I would like to highlight the integral character of this text, since it has all kinds of discrimination and will be projected in the different spheres of life and coexistence, without prejudice to more specific sectoral regulations, so that it marks and reinforces existing sectoral laws: we can talk about the LGTBI Law, the Accessibility Law, the Law of Effective Equality between Men and Women..., and therefore, give force to punitive actions in cases of violation of rights. This point came up, remembering that the Law of Equality between Men and Women was partially annulled by the Constitutional Court, which declared null – and I would like to remind you – articles 33, 36, 39, 40 and 44 last October 6; articles that speak of sexual assignment to enterprises or the figure of the union leader of equality, that we have continued working in the Council of Labour Relations day after day. It should also be noted that this initiative is part of the 11th Parliament's governance plan, with the aim of promoting practices for effective equality between people and respect for all forms of diversity. For this reason, from the government, in the matter of equality, we continue with a clear plan: with a plan that is the rule of Law 11/2014, we have begun to apply sanctions, the first of three hundred euros, for homophobic treatment; we have incorporated into the locals the deployment of the Law LGTBI, also the Law of accessibility, and also the plans of equality for the same in the locals. Since the government we want to guarantee a space of coexistence framed in the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which offers protection in the field of the competitions we have, beyond the judicial measures and the action of the Odi Crimes and Discrimination Service of the provincial prosecution. This is why we promote actions for awareness and prevention, actions for detection – professional training and the establishment of the duty of public authorities to collect and systematize data –, actions directed at the attention and follow-up in the recovery process to persons who have suffered discriminatory action. This bill will consolidate and facilitate administrative planning and coordination in the area of non-discrimination, currently reflected in various government plans. That is why we will also create an independent body for equal treatment and non-discrimination, which, among other functions, will resolve requests, mediate functions and work in coordination with the public prosecutor, with institutions and public bodies and, as it could not otherwise be, with the syndicate. It is clear that we need a model and a specific legislation of public policies of equality and non-discrimination in order to move forward more firmly and quickly towards a social paradigm shift. We work to implement a policy that guarantees the rights of all people, to achieve a society where everyone is free, both in public and in private, because everyone can develop their personal abilities and make decisions without the limitations imposed by traditional roles or stereotypes, because each person can advance in the construction of his or her future and his or her own life project. Because this is a backcountry, a pillar where equal treatment and opportunity are the back-key of social construction and a pillar of the new republic. The sanctioning regime is formed by offences that are classified according to their gravity. A sanctioning regime is established for each type of infringement, with graduation criteria such as the intention of the offender, the nature of the damage, the permanence of the impact or the condition of authority. Infringements, therefore, can go unpunished, hard or very hard, and these sanctions will be decided by the body in charge of controlling the compliment of the law. We want to narrow it down to anything that involves an attempt against freedom, any action that goes against equality, that has a logic of discrimination, or that involves hate conduct that expresses intolerance or rebuffs of difference. In short, what I'm coming to tell you is that I think it's a good instrument to respond to manifestations that are expressions of intolerance and rebreeding of people that can be considered different, that others can be considered different. That is why the object of the law is to guarantee human dignity and equality as a pillar of a just and democratic society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.325.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Then there's the word "Mrs. Noemí de la Calle" from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.326.0	Thank you, President. There are some people who avoid reflecting on discriminatory treatment in our society, arguing that we are not affected by racism, lack of freedom, discrimination or inequality. But the reality is that discrimination manifests itself in many ways and permeates our society to a level with which it may go unnoticed by being normalized. The concepts of non-discrimination and human rights are therefore intimately and closely linked. Discrimination was a fundamental obstacle to the enjoyment of human rights. Eliminating discrimination is not an easy task, because it means changing in many cases the culture and vision of the world that has been dominant for centuries and, as I said before, goes unnoticed by having been normalized. But culture is not static, but dynamic and changing, and experience shows that it is possible to promote a culture of human rights and to bring down stereotypes and prejudices. In Citizens we advocate for the defence and advancement of equality and individual freedoms without limiting the place of birth, race, sex, religion, opinion or any other social or personal circumstances. No one should be excluded from the possibility of realizing his or her potential or from the use of his or her freedom for reasons beyond his or her control. And that is why there is the duty of solidarity, that is, to redistribute part of wealth in a way that creates a basic equality of opportunity, that makes legitimate the disparities that will occur naturally in a free society. The Administration must empower citizens and not increase the power that others exercise over them. Based on this ideal of equality, which enhances freedom and diversity, Citizens exercise their political action in Catalonia. One of the major foci of inequality in Catalonia is the economic condition, and so Citizens have focused their efforts on something as fundamental as equal opportunities, and the main tool for equal opportunities is education. From Citizens we have done this, for example, with a bill to ensure that textbooks are free in Catalonia to ensure equal opportunities in public schools, providing textbooks to families to ensure that no child is left out of class because his family has to choose between buying textbooks, paying rent or filling the refrigerator. Pity of the amendment to the whole of the Government, pity that the votes against Junts pel Si and the CUP, with the abstention of Catalunya Yes that is Pot, will make the next course those children start the course from a disadvantaged position. We also put forward a bill to establish an economic benefit for families with dependent children in an unfavourable economic situation. Fortunately, this one did pass the court and, if everything goes well in the paper, this benefit for children from unresourced families will be possible. He said that the field of education is essential to promote non-discrimination and that is why we have also put forward a proposal for the prevention and treatment of situations of child abuse in the field of education, which takes into account the new technologies that facilitate the commission of illegal offences and make it difficult to detect them by the perpetration of ill-treatment through telematic means. There are also other ways to ensure equality, for example by protecting the most disadvantaged in relation to access to basic supplies. And we have also put forward a proposal for a law in this regard, because we believe that the most vulnerable people cannot be left in the hands of energy suppliers. And we believe that it is the Administration that must assume its error and inefficiency in regard to equality and access to the most basic rights, and guarantee those supplies. We want the Administration to be the one to prevent the cutting by taking charge of those invoices, and in any case, the Administration to be the one to negotiate fairer and fairer treatment with the supplier. We believe that the deployment of Law 24/2015 is not being done well and we believe that letting it be the citizen who has to do with energy is very cowardly. Yesterday we tabled a motion for a resolution to urge the Government to stop positioning itself in favour of harassment campaigns against students who request to study more hours in Spanish. And we ask not only us, but the Sindico de Greuges himself, who is not precisely suspected of commulgating with Ciutadans, has suggested to the Government to open a file to clarify whether from the staff of the Gaspar educational centre in Portolà, in Balaguer, or from the Administration, information was provided to the media to identify two students who asked for schooling in Spanish. In this case, a campaign against children and their families was launched, with collection of signatures, leaks of data from minors and harassment campaigns at the facilities provided by the school itself. And it is very cynical that this bill be presented by the same administration to which the Catalan Ombudsman has urged to protect the rights of all pupils, and to respect pluralism, inclusion and social cohesion through measures that keep the school and its environment out of the adult conflict. [[Some applause.]] We have also often called for the deployment of both the LGTBI Act..., yesterday reminded one entity in the Equality Commission of the things that are still to be deployed in the law, such as the decree of duty of intervention or the right of care for the victim. And also the deployment of the Law on Equality between Men and Women, because we are all aware that in recent years the public policies of women in Catalonia have fallen into stalemate. The budget cuts have led to a depletion of the associative fabric, a decrease in territorial resources and in the services and programmes that support women's policies. The Councillor has mentioned the suspension of part of the section of the Catalan Equality Act by the Constitutional Court, but has not mentioned, or perhaps forgotten, that these suspended articles are suspended because they already exist, they are contained in the Spanish Equality Act, which has been in force since 2007. And it's that the Catalan law... it's that it copied them! They were practically calcified: article 33 of the Catalan law corresponds to the 48 of the Spanish law; the article, for example..., 39, of the Catalan law, is the same as the 48 of the Spanish law, and so all the articles suspended. Rights are guaranteed not only by putting them on paper, but by implementing active policies. And this requires putting in place the means to deploy the necessary laws, economic and human resources; it requires believing and defending the laws. What good is a law if it is not fully deployed? Because it gives us the feeling that this is the government of the postureum, they are always announcing a law or a star proposal, besides with titles, therefore, grandilocuentes, "Llei per a la egalstat de tracte i non-discriminate, that so in plain sight it has a very soft title, but to which you scratch a little what it does is to repeat texts that we already have in higher norms, that is, in other state laws of higher rank and which the government is not applying. That is, they are replaying frivolously on such serious issues as fundamental rights. These rights already exist; they apply them, because it is their obligation. But as they want to have an excuse not to do so, a programmatic or declaratory law, which is not effective, that repeats other laws and crosses their fingers so that the Constitutional Court can lie down and thus have an excuse before the citizenry not to apply policies that they are already obliged to apply because there are laws that oblige them; such as, for example, the Organic Law for the Effective Equality of Men and Women, which I mentioned earlier, the Organic Law on Religious Freedom, the Basic Statute of the Public Employee, the Sports Act, the Constitution or the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. These are just one example of all the laws by which we are obliged to promote and guarantee these rights. But I am very afraid that by including those generically, which is not concrete, with this law what they seek is competitive confrontation. And when this happens, they will once again use their entire communicative apparatus to make citizens believe that if they do not guarantee these rights it is because Madrid does not leave them. But the raw reality, the painful reality is that if they don't, it's because they don't want to. And once again they leave the victims in the hands of a third party and take no charge of anything, in case something fails, wash your hands. Because if they wanted to make a law that really guarantees those rights, they would have included articles that would oblige them to take action to promote the culture of tolerance and non-discrimination; they would have put in place specific measures to support victims who would force the Administration to give real and effective care to victims, including counselling, assistance – especially health care – and especially social measures to facilitate their comprehensive recovery; they would have put in an article that would oblige the Administration to exercise popular prosecution in criminal proceedings for death or serious injuries related to the scope of this law. Things for which they do have competences have not included them, leaving the citizen unprotected once again. If you want to guarantee these rights, stop with great words and implement policies that make them a reality. For this reason, since..., Citizens have not tabled an amendment to the whole, because in facilitating their process we will have the opportunity, at the presentation stage, to do the work that the Government has left unfulfilled. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] We will have the opportunity to introduce all those measures which are effective, which are competent and which will oblige the Government to ensure and guarantee genuine equality of treatment and non-discrimination. Because that is what the citizens of all who are here expect: that we do useful things and that impact on their well-being. It is our duty to work for a more inclusive and less unequal Catalonia, a Catalonia that values diversity by promoting and guaranteeing equality of rights for all. Don't hesitate that from Citizens we will work to implement policies that really guarantee those rights. For achieving equality requires commitment and perseverance in the defence of the universal principles of people's equality and rejection of gregarious instincts. Working for people to live together and contribute to the well-being of all is something that requires daily work and social pedagogy, while to divide one only needs to feed fear, hatred and victimism. Victimist, populist and dangerous speeches such as Donald Trump's in the United States; victimist, populist and dangerous speeches such as Nigel Farage's in the United Kingdom; and victimist, populist and dangerous speeches such as those we have heard today in this very parliamentary seat...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.327.0	Mrs. De la Calle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.328.0	... – I finish – by the mouth of Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.329.0	Thank you. Next, has the word Ms. Marta Moreta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.330.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies, the fourth additional provision of Law 11/2014, of October 10, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia says the following: "The Government, in a term of eight months, to count on the date of publication of this law, must forward to Parliament a draft law for non-discrimination. It does not surprise me, therefore, that what we begin today is done as a matter of urgency; because, among other things, the government is late. He explained this in the previous plenary, in which he referred to the failure of the statutory deployment of the Law of Effective Equality of Women and Men. Then, he was talking about divisive months later, and today we find ourselves with a draft law of equal treatment and non-discrimination, which goes, no more or less, two years and three months later. The government had eight months to pass on this bill to Parliament, but it is clear that the eight months were short, very short, because we had to wait for more months to begin the process in this Parliament. But, go on, as the Catalan saying says: "It's worth more later than ever. The object of this bill is to achieve the right to equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of sex, nationality, origin, religion, conviction, opinion, age, disability, orientation or sexual identity, physical or mental illness, or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. In short, promote the eradication of all discrimination by reason of some of the causes cited. What are we looking for with this bill? Therefore, the basic guarantees that enable us to provide real and effective protection for citizens in order to enjoy human rights and freedom of speech without discrimination, ensuring coexistence and social cohesion, through the recognition of the dignity of the person. What sets the standard mark of the pre-draft law? Thus, concretely, in its Article 4 of the Statute of Autonomy, it establishes the public powers to promote the full exercise of the freedoms and rights recognized by the Statute, the Constitution, the European Union, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights. Look, counselor, I'd like to ask you where is the sanctioning decree or the duty of intervention protocol for the protection of the LGTBI collection. This government's repeated failure has become a norm, but we cannot normalize it. Unfortunately, in this Parliament, the great headlines, announced on drums and silverware, are the bread of every day. We work for one objective and the rest remains in oblivion. I'll give you some examples. April 2014 – we're pretty much there – is a statement to the media saying: "The government is pushing for a law that will equate Catalonia with the most advanced states in the fight against discrimination. Five months later, in September 2015, another great headline: "The Government approves the bill for equal treatment. We're talking about 2014 and 2015; we're at 17. That's right, headlines; because the deputies of the various parliamentary groups who at the time were part of Parliament did not see a single line of that foreground; nor one. Look, we're talking about equal treatment and non-discrimination, and we're going to put some examples of what the government is applying in its various departments. In labor matters– of this, I would say that it speaks to this law –, of the thirteen departments of the Government of Catalonia, only one – one – has 50_percent of women occupying high positions, that of Governance. Thank God you don't have the counselor, because I'd like to congratulate you. But let's look at others – in others – departments. For example, the Presidency, which has within its political functions, among its functions – forgive –, the politics of women. So, miri, this department only has 24_per_cent– 24_per_cent– of women occupying high positions. And the most striking case, the top ten, bears the Territory and Sustainability: an 11_percent of other charges, women. This is a good example of what is not equal treatment and non-discrimination. I don't know if you see it like that. Women only occupy a 30_percent of the direct places of the Catalan Public Administration, even though there are seventy-thousand more women than men working in the public sector, but women are not represented in the most powerful places. They'll agree with me that this is discrimination. In the private sector women cover 18_per_cent less than men in equal jobs. The predominance of job insecurity and wage discrimination of women is evident. And to the universities? The advisor Baiget deia has not long ago that at Catalan universities the women already represent about 50_percent of the nine incorporations. And it also adds that it increases in percentage of women's search merits by 10_per_cent. What was not mentioned by Councillor Baiget is that, of the twelve universities in Catalonia, only one account with a rector, and the rest, I mean, the remaining eleven universities, all of them men, is clear. Many discriminatory acts are often associated with hate crimes, hate crimes or violence, forms of intolerance such as racism, xenophobia, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, sexism, homophobia, transphobia and a wide range of things. These acts are manifested by means of conduct reflecting stigma, exclusion, speech of hatred, discrimination, hostility and violence. We're talking about all this, and we're talking about the schools, too. Our schools are growing up in reports of bullying, school bullying, beating children and young people for their sexual orientation, and continue to increase in Catalonia. At present, they already occupy the third place in denunciations before the Observers against Homophobia. They can't lower the guard. I, for what he does to private actions in the speech of hate, is very visible in thousands of websites and social networks, in football camps, etc. And the world of sport? In November I had the opportunity to talk to Jesus Tomillero. I'm sure a lot of people don't like it, in his name, but they will remember what happened to him. Jesus was an arbiter of football, he suffered assailantly, insults and death threats, and also to declare himself homosexual. It wasn't here in Catalonia, but you can't imagine it doesn't happen here. Yes, it is. The Party of Socialists of Catalonia will not put any impediments in the handling of this law, but we will certainly make various contributions and observations. It should be noted that the definitions of discrimination do not contain one of the most important ones, which refer to discrimination in the following order, which are not only those which discriminate against the victim, but also those which support him. The first final provision of the bill states that the government will be able to dictate the necessary regulatory standards for the deployment and enforcement of the law. We can't wait years for this rule to be adopted as it has so far passed with other laws. The law provides for the creation of an organ to guarantee and improve and promote the right of people to be non-discriminatory. This organ can assume the policies of attention, information, advice and assessment and sanctioning authority established by Law 11/2014. For all this, they will be able to find us at their side, to bring forward this project, not in a free way, only with collaboration and work and persistence to improve the lives of all those citizens who suffer or have suffered discriminatory acts. But also to take effective action, anti-discrimination action plans and implement a bill that today is very generic. And, finally, as my friend Rafel Bruguera says: "Lords, you have a good late. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.331.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moreta. Next, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.332.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillor, Catalunya Yes, it is possible to process the law proposal for equal treatment and non-discrimination. And as precisely as the law pursues the effective equality of all people, we want to take advantage of it to condemn now vigorously the first crime of male violence of 2017, the new Spanish State, which was produced yesterday late. One more time a woman was murdered because she was a woman. We need, therefore, once and for all that discrimination and unequal treatment do not go unpunished. The general view of the law on the part of our group is positive, if, if it can be dealt with, we will review it, because we find some shortcomings and some inaccuracies. In fact, this law responds to a European concern before the lack of awareness of discrimination in both the Spanish State and the autonomous communities; that is, Catalonia. Specifically, the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe adopted a resolution in July 2013 requiring the State to urgently adopt a global anti-discrimination law. Certainly, in Catalonia we have the Law of effective equality of women and men and the Law to guarantee the rights of LGBTI people and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transfer, but situations of discrimination and unequal treatment continue to occur. First of all, because the two laws have not been fully deployed. We lack regulations, decrees, operating instructions. Second place, because sanctioning shippers are not opening. And, thirdly, because, despite the laws, the government does not do the preventive task that it should do, as we already knew and as we were also told yesterday by entities that compared before the Commission of Igualtat, and that left us in a state of shock for all the violations of rights that they denounced. One was the Gais Positius entity; the second was a representation of entities that age for equality between women and men. The third was an entity dedicated to helping victims of trafficking. Do you know, for example, that when the Mosses dismantle a brothel with thirty-two Chinese women who have been trafficked, the only entity that cares, SICAR, only has a little more than a few beds to put them together? Do you know that despite the government's delegating to you the task of taking care of children and trafficked women, it doesn't even make a call to find out how they'll handle it to get rid of so many of them? Do you know that there is still in official documentation, in civil registers, family books, DNI, public health forms, public school forms expressions that discriminate against LGBTI people? Do you know that certain Catalan judicial bodies continue to use parental alienation syndrome, despite the fact that the General Council of the Judiciary has not rejected the application – it could also say that the international medical community does not admit it as the syndrome – and taking advantage of this non-existent syndrome continues to provide custody and custody of minors in pairs, and withdraws the rules of visits to the seas in violation of article 15 of the Cedaw? In case they don't know, the Cedaw is the Convention for the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against the Woman. It was adopted by the United Nations in 1979 and ratified by the Spanish State in 1984; that is to say, it is a compliment. And every four years a committee of the Cedaw evaluates the application of the conviction to each country from two reports: the one that makes the government of the country and the one that makes civil society from a report that calls itself Shadow. The results of this report, which assesses the situation between 2008 and 2013, were presented to us yesterday. There's enough with the title: Dismantled Equality, to get an idea of what you're saying about our standards. Certainly, one of the shortcomings noted by the report is the lack of measures to change cultural patterns and break stereotypes in education and culture. It's too bad the Teaching Counselor isn't here. The report is very critical with the fact that neither from the education system nor from the media has anything been done to modify patriarchal cultural patterns, which, of course, kept discrimination intact. And it is that in Catalonia many people continue to discriminate, suffer because of origin, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, belonging to ethnic minorities; because of the different functionality of physical, cognitive, sensory or mental abilities; because of the socioeconomic situation, because of the administrative condition, because of the sensillarism, because of the deprivation of liberty, for the administrative protection. And all this has yet to be added to the institutional violence. And we don't call it just us or the entities, too, Europe. Or do they think it's not institutional rape to leave a person without any help, no recourse? The legislation imposed on the capitalist and heteropatriarchal system places all persons who do not form part of an excluded nucleus in unequal positions; all persons who do not comply with the rule of having resources, being heterosexual, belonging to the male sex, etc.; all those who do not belong to it are liable to suffer discrimination. Our model of society benefits from creating exclusion mechanisms in order to maintain the privileges of a dominant class occupying the centre of power and which represents, of course, a very small percentage of the population, while the wider part of the population is relegated to the periphery of power and suffers constant discrimination. Racism, masculinism, the LGTBfobia, classism are expressions linked to this dominant social order and require very profound changes, structural changes to become eradicated. That is why it is essential that the recognition policies of the other beginning for the analysis of the public sector, since precisely the public sector must be the promoter and guarantor of human rights. This is one of the reasons why this law seems very timely to us, because it will also control the violations of rights coming from the Administration. The reality of equal treatment and non-discrimination in Catalonia and the Spanish State, however, is a great unknown. For not having, we don't have any dice! The same Council of Europe, through its resolution on the application of the framework convention for the protection of national minorities, deplored the absence of follow-up and registration of discrimination cases in 2013 and encouraged the special emphasis of the Gypsy community to promote respect for cultural and religious diversity and to condemn racism and intolerance. For what he does to data, it's true that the police have been recording them since 2012, but little else we've done during these years. They've been lost for years. Catalunya will begin now. This law, therefore, must be a step in this direction, and we will be able to extend this step during the parliamentary process because, and I have already said this at the beginning, the law is short. We do not want, nor can we, to conform with a law of minimums. We want to complete the international standards, we want a transformative law. The law makes obvious discriminations that if they go well in the right way, it will need to deepen because they are clearly insufficient. I give you some examples of what we want to add: the vulnerability situations of the citizenry are listed incompletely: they can't be visible just some, so name them all. Therefore, aspects such as the administrative situation or the socioeconomic situation of the extreme poor or the condition of deprivation of liberty must be included in the law. There will be a specific recognition of the measures to address these discriminations, and also, and in a very special way, to sufferers for people in whom multiple discriminations compete, because if you donate and are of gypsy ethnicity and have functional diversity, you have it badly in our society. It will also be useful to add the police and the prison, since it is found in the framework of the General Administration's competencies. Such a time, it will also be necessary to assess what can be done in the judicial sphere. It will also be necessary to provide that associations for the defence of the rights collected which have suffered discrimination have the right to intervene in administrative litigation. I'll leave it here. There were only a few examples. Finally, we would like to point out that if we accept the treatment of the law for equal treatment and non-discrimination, proposed for the government, and that of the comprehensive law against forms of hatred, proposed for the UPC, we believe that they should be treated jointly in a single procedure. We ask the proposing groups to make the effort to come to terms so that we can have a tool that will be a parachute of the other laws, of which we already have, because it will not need them, but it can be the cement that kills them all. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.333.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. The words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.334.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, finally today we celebrate the arrival of this Law Project for equal treatment and non-discrimination in the Parliament of Catalonia, because from the Catalan People's Party we asked it a while ago, when Vice President Munté was then Councillor of Benestar and Family. We understand that at the time there was already an interest on the part of the government in presenting this project, but the Republican Left pressure was more powerful and this integral project, which was to give coverage to a global universe, was reduced to a law that only employed a type of discrimination. In fact, now surely with this new law there will be some additional provision to be removed from that other law and some other article, as well as at least, since it contradicts the law that is presented today. Perhaps it was better to have started..., or not to have started the house for the roof, but at those times there was a lot of haste to approve that law against discrimination by sex, the LGTBI. He was in a hurry to approve that law, but the Government of the Generality was in no hurry to implement it. And this is a reflection that I think we need to do today. Parliament has become accustomed to making laws that end with announcements, end with propaganda, because after the government does not develop or implement them. It doesn't make them effective, in short. Look, yesterday, in the People's Equality Commission, it was a clear example, it was a very hard shot for the government, in fact. Three fellows came and the three spoke of three laws approved for this Parliament which the government somehow ignores. Law 11/2014 was approved two years and a half ago, there is enough perspective to assess its implementation, and the associations affected say it lacks assumptions and political will. In the case of the Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, the same happens: there is no effective follow-up of the Law, and yesterday the correspondents said that they lack measures, lack resources, lack services, lack information and lack coordination. And all these shortcomings were also denounced for the third party, SICAR, to which Congresswoman Lienas refers, when she spoke to us about the 2,500 potential victims of sexual exploitation in Catalonia and which are only the tip of the iceberg of human rights violations in the near future. In addition, it adds, this association, SICAR, adds lack of diagnostics, lack of training, lack of strategy and lack of prevention devices. To make laws that are only toasts to the sun, without resources and without the will to implement them, are a source of frustration and, in some cases, add to the problems, because one might think that all the work is done when everything remains to be done. From the People's Party we share the experience of this Law Project for equal treatment and non-discrimination, because what he sees us remembering is that everyone– everyone– has the right to be free from discrimination based on gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation or any other condition, as well as other human rights that may in any case be subject to discrimination. These rights are set out in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenants, the International Convention on the Rights of the Child and other international treaties and declarations. Both in the Spanish Constitution and in the Statute of Independence of Catalonia it is a clear reference to the fact that in no case can the freedoms and rights of the individual be violated, whatever their condition. All these tools constitute a combination of powers which, when placed on the market, should eliminate all types of discrimination. In the case we are now discussing, a good part of the project is a statement of intent that is very much to be seen with concepts that today and in certain contexts we find, unfortunately, very much to be lacking: tolerance, freedom, equality, respect. We just have to give our society a look at it to make sure that in full 21st century, male violence continues to be a scourge that we haven't solved yet. We trust that the pact between all the political forces in the Congress of Deputies, here in Parliament, serves to, in some way, put it free, as well as the application of the different resolutions approved. Another issue that affects us and that is a social reality is the placement of children and adolescents in educational centres, for whatever reason, as well as cyberbullying. As foreseen by the bill in the second chapter of the title, this right to equal treatment and non-discrimination must be given in the different socio-economic areas, areas ranging from public service to culture and communication, through health and education, social services and housing, among others. The Administration has an obligation to age because no one feels excluded from public life, from an educational or health centre, or from any other sphere of thinking different or professing a specific religion. As I said, we have a statement of intent, which is this bill of law, until it comes to Article 23, which begins to describe a certain strategy to follow. Here the Government proposes to us a plan that would be, as the same article says, a document that determines the axes, the strategic lines, the objectives and the measures to prevent, eliminate and correct all forms of discrimination. And this is where we're going to work, and we're going to work a lot, Counselor. This plan cannot be left with a mere declaration of intent, it cannot happen again with what has happened with the laws I have previously mentioned. We can't say them again, no one can say them again that they lack diagnostics, that they lack strategy, that they lack willfulness, that they lack training, that they lack resources, that they lack services, that they lack prevention or that they lack awareness, as happened yesterday to the Commission of People's Equality. For what he does to offences and sanctions, he will have to value himself in what form it penalizes those who fail to complete the law and reach a consensus between all the agents involved and the political groups of this chamber. I'm done. On March 1st we will celebrate the Day of Zero Discrimination, a date that was proclaimed by the General Assembly of United Nations on the same day of the year 2014 to promote pau and tolerance as you have been to build a world where human dignity prevails over any other condition. Not just on March 1st, not just today, not just the day that this law is finally adopted, every day we have to bear in mind that discrimination is an immoral and cruel practice that violates human rights and that we only defeat discrimination with a cultural change, and this requires laws but above all requires strategy, resources and political will. The popular will support this bill so that you can pull forward and work hard to enrich the text, which is missing from it, as well as from its handling, as well as from other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.335.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.336.0	Thank you, President. Just this morning, at the control session, the President of the Generalitat made reference to the government's task in the fight against discrimination, so the Bassa Councillor presented it to the Faristol. We celebrate this declaration of principles, as it could not otherwise be, and we positively value the proposed law presented to us today by the Government, since all those initiatives that are aimed at working against discrimination and for equality will be welcome. And they're urgent, very urgent. The data from the latest report published by SOS Racisme indicate that they do not report racist discrimination any more. Facts like those of Mataró, from homophobic threats to members of the LGTBI collection, cases of discrimination at schools or the latest cases of racist insults denounced for a girl of origin from the Railways of the Generality of Catalonia. That said, and making it clear that we are in favour of the bill and all measures for equality and dignity, we will present a series of reflections on the legislative text aimed at improving it. And in fact the reflections will be the premise of the next item on the agenda, which is the full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination drafted for the UPC and which, as Mrs Lienas requested, effectively will be dealt with jointly with the government's bill. I'm going to the law, so. In the first place, and in terms of general value, it seems to me that it is a law that wants to touch many different areas but that concrete little. And that worries us; we are concerned because it might mean that it is not thought of as an agile instrument in the measure that it has no concrete attributions and, therefore, that it can have little incidence, let's say. And we have one of the most cited examples in this late plenary, which is the lack of implementation of Law 11/2014. I will not be there, because there have been many arguments about the table; I will only give a given: the Observer against Homophobia has recorded a few fewer than two hundred incidents and put them in knowledge of the body that created the same Law 11/2014 and there has been only one sanction since October 2014. This is what we mean when we talk about how we fear that it is so abstract, so little concrete that it can have little influence. There has been no complaint or false case of Mataró or, in case we have the dissabte you see, the homophobic act organized for the Archebisbat of Barcelona, the own dissabte to the city of Barcelona, if I am not mistaken. So the first thought we have is this. It's so broad and so little concrete that you might not have any concrete influence. The second reflection that we do is also in terms of contents in the same line, is to say, it wants to touch many areas and describe them a little, let's say. The article says concretely: "No one can be discriminated against because of birth, nationality or lack of nationality, racial or ethnic origin, sex, religion, conviction or opinion, age, disability, sexual orientation or identity, physical or mental malalty or any other personal or social condition or circumstance. Many concepts are listed, but they are not defined in depth, and the only one that exposes itself in detail, yes, they are the types of discrimination. You, the counselor, have exposed them here, not that I repeat them. There is no escape to anyone who is complicated to show that discrimination has occurred when the definitions are so vague, in terms of scope, and when the specific discrimination is not explained; and more importantly, or what for us is the return key: there are the dynamics of privileges and oppression, which are the key to hearing discrimination, and there is also the intersection between the different vectors of oppression. Here I refer to when the deputy of Ciutadans asks for more Spanish language in a discrimination clause, when the deputy of the PSC talks about gender discrimination in the framework of a law like this. We understand that here what is not being properly served or not being applied are the dynamics of privilege and oppression. And why is that important? So, because it can become a double-sized weapon and it can be used, precisely, a weapon that must be against discrimination precisely in favor of oppression. I'll explain. For example, about religious diversity. It's about religion, but it doesn't refer to minorities, to diversity, or to cultural contexts, let's say, as if at home all religions have the same possibilities, the same resources and the same possibilities to exercise themselves or the same standards. According to the article of this law, discrimination against the Muslim community, the Buddhist community and the Catholic community would be equal, and everyone knows that this, or that these are not on equal terms. In fact, the Catholic community is the majority, the hegemonic one, which has a whole network of religious centers– 83_per_cent of Catholic worship centers in Catalonia–, which has a network of schools where Catholic religion is transmitted, which has recognized cultural hegemony to the institutions and the main organizations. If we talk, in change, about the rest of the communities, and in order not to extend'very much' we talk concretely about Islam, we should talk, for example, about Islamophobia, we should talk about religious discrimination in schools, we should talk about the difficulty of building mosques, which I don't mean centers of worship – there are three in all of Catalonia – and we should talk, for example, about the difficulties that Muslim girls have in their lives at the time of going to work, that they will have to pass. Therefore, he did not hear in general terms about religious discrimination because we invisible minorities and we see dynamics of oppression. It is not the same in our home as being a Catholic Muslim, and it is not the same in terms of discrimination. If we talk about opinions or convictions, which is another concept that is articulated in the law, neither is it defined contexts, as if opinions are not engulfed with logic of hegemony or privileges. For us it is a particularly delicate issue, we come from a political area where it has often been applied to repressive logics based on justifications of hatred and violence, and concretely just two years ago a judicial process was opened against new BDS activists because they opposed a concert by an openly declared Zionist artist, and precisely helped them to go against freedom of expression, without taking into account the conflict between Israel and Palestine and the responsibilities of the State of Israel in the area of violations of human rights, as if reality were neutral. How many times have we heard the thesis that extremes are touching? That the pheasism and the antipheasism are the same? For a band, it is essential to dispel the image of two extremes fighting for hegemony and to understand that fascism and discrimination are articulated and defined against equality, dignity and universal access to rights, central axes of democratic societies. And for another band it is key or essential, also, to assume that hatred has a class political criterion, in the sense that it is the violent manifestation of privilege in relation to difference and, therefore, that it directly tempts the spine of coexistence. Therefore, neither the thesis of extremes is valid, because it sets at the same level discriminatory values with values in defense of equality, nor is the thesis of neutral contexts valid. Therefore, the discriminations of the concrete thing that allows them to be placed as a key to oppression and privileges must be addressed, and it is essential. He did not feel he was generating legal instruments that did not stick to concrete contexts to analyse discrimination and lack of access to rights. It has not been felt because, moreover, the logics of oppression and privileges are precisely defined in concrete terms. And he didn't feel it because then it's when instruments like this, that have to be used to fight against all the fetishisms, racisms, sexisms are to be weapons that launch against concrete political spaces or serve as hegemonic collectivities. To finish, repeat..., we lay all this on the table because it seems essential to us at the time of working to make it an effective instrument, but we reiterate our open hand and our willingness to work with any instrument that is focused on ending discrimination and promoting equality. And I'm leaving it here because at the next point in the order of the day, we'll finish exposing the theoretician from where we understand the work and the struggle against discrimination. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.337.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, has the word Ms. Montserrat Palau, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.338.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, allow me to start with a few words from Tzvetan Todorov, the master in language, literature and humanities who just died yesterday, and who said, who wrote, exactly: "To be civilized means to be able to fully recognize the humanity of others, even though they have criteria, thoughts or conducts different from ours. I think it's a relevant appointment to deal with, as the councillor said in presenting it, this bill of law in favor of human rights and the exercise of these universal rights, rights that must govern our present and the immediate future. And this bill is in favour of human dignity, equality and justice, without discrimination of any kind or for any reason. The law is necessary. The Members and the Member who preceded me have mentioned several examples – both Mrs. Lienas and Mrs. Moreta, Milan, etc. – because discrimination, non-equality of treatment, hatred, discrimination are present every day in our closest reality. There's a lot of facts, a lot of questions that they say. There are many hate crimes, many acts of discrimination, still by religious, ethnic, genera, sexual orientation or ideology. This bill of law, this new law, has to complete other existing laws that have also been questioned, such as the Law of Effective Equality of Men and Women, of..., 17/2015, and Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, lesbian, biphobia and transphobia. This law is going to complete the others because it wants to eradicate any type of expression or action that tempts against the equality and dignity of people. The government's will, and so the councillor has expressed, is that of zero tolerance at the time of combating discrimination that is now unpunished. This law has this integral character against any type of discrimination. It's a law of the right to equal treatment, a often violated right. It's a law with the will to bring it to term, not a postureg, as it was said in this very faristol. The gender, race, ethnicity and class are the fundamentals of our identities. We have some specific legislation for discrimination of identity and sexual orientation, masculinism, lesbians, transphobia or biphobia, but other questions such as disability, origin, country of origin, religion, creeds, orientation-identity, functional diversity, age, apophobics, serophobia or stigmatization, social exclusion or any circumstance or social and personal condition. This law has to put and want to put emphasis on guaranteeing, respecting – but above all, guaranteeing – equal treatment, and also adding all kinds of discrimination, even all social discrimination, possibly little visible. The starting point and the objective is that we are not born the same. We are not born the same because we are not the same in the sense of identical or identical. We have, cadascú, features and identity traits. We are not born equal, but we do come to be equal in our determination guided by the principle of justice to guarantee equal rights. Rights which, at the same time, do not mean, nor do they mean, the suppression of plurality, nor the differences, because equality does not mean homogeneity. We have to put it behind us; because, ultimately, it's a question of why, discrimination and hate. We need to overcome the bias and educate future generations, younger generations, from the principles and values of tolerance and respect, because we are among the others. As Simone de Beauvoir said: "In the existence of others or others we can only find our own existence. In this sense, knowing and recognizing otherness must be done in conditions of equality, not with hierarchies, nor alienations, nor submissions. We are social beings and alterity is a characteristic inherent in our identities, in our expressions of self. This law is appropriate to regulate discrimination in public and private sectors, in institutions and also in the citizenry. It is a law that speaks of protection, but also of promotion and education in equality, equity and non-discrimination. It is a law, as has been said here, that goes from the last legislature, that has made various contributions; contributions, some, that have taken into account; others, to speed up the process, have remained just. Because, as Members and Members have said before me, it is now and this is the work we have in Parliament, and it is, in short, the essence of parliamentary work: we need to discuss, we need to exchange opinions, reflections. And, ultimately, it is parliamentary work, through comparisons, reflections and documents, in which we must complete the shortcomings or finish defining, correcting or enriching this law. A law, as the Councillor explained, is a starting point, but it is a law or a starting point, this project, very valid in the sense of cross-section: of various departments and of various, also, organizations, associations, both professional, professional, educational, cultural, sports, lleure, foundations, etc.; the list is very long. It's a bill that sets obligations for different socio-economic areas. It is a draft law that also establishes concrete actions through organs and sanctions, both the mediating and criminal, inspection, protection and cooperation organ. And it is also a draft law – contrary to what some Member has said – in that it already includes protective measures, preventive and detection measures, with articles penalizing multiple discriminations, direct or indirect discriminations, by mistake and by association, assets, induction, and also reprisals. It is, in short, a bill of law which, in all our debate, wants to do this right to equal treatment and non-discrimination by reason of religion or belief. A law that also talks about people and their abilities or disabilities. It takes into account age, takes into account racial or ethnic origin, also takes into account sexual orientations and identities, and takes into account, in short, a whole series of social or personal conditions. At the same time, this law seeks to promote the eradication of racism, of any form of persecution for ideological reasons, for religious reasons. There has been talk of xenophobia, there has been talk of racism; we also have to talk about homophobia or any other expression that attempts against the equality and dignity of people. In this sense, before, and by the end, he was talking about por. We need to know why he said; because, in fact, when we want to do or do, to turn the other into enemy or enemy, this always implies our own for: our own for the difference; because we do not understand his conduct; or because he has some other interests in ours; because he threatens our estabilité; because he occupies – this we know a lot of women – a space that, according to tradition, does not belong to him; because he is of another race or has another skin color; because he does not belong to the same class or to the same power. We must overcome the need to educate and live in these principles of tolerance. This morning, the ugly president..., said a phrase referring to the geopolitical context, a phrase that we can also apply to this Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Bill: "We have to finish with what..., with the normality of impunity. From then on, therefore, in the working groups and, as the different Members and Members have offered themselves, it is when we can begin to work, define this bill, which ends, therefore, with this normality of the impunity of discrimination and hate crimes. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.339.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Palau. As there are no submissions, the Bill for Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination continues its processing. [[Proposition of full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination (debate of totality)]] [[202-00033/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposal for a comprehensive law against all forms of hatred and discrimination. In accordance with Article 114.2 of the Rules, she presents the initiative, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, the Lady Mireia Vehí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.340.0	Thank you, President. Well, as I explained to the previous intervention that we've done a bit of a landing from where we understand the work against hatred and all forms of discrimination, we need to analyse the discrimination from a specific logic, which takes away the false landings of neutrality. I will not be there any more, I have already exposed it before: an approach that takes part, that sets the positionality as the key element, or as the essential focus for analysis and to be able to define and discern discriminations. From this will today we present the full law against hatred and all forms of discrimination, which in its Chapter I is defined with the objective of "guaranteeing human dignity, non-discrimination, and equality between all persons as the foundational pillars of a just and democratic society. The object of a large mass, obviously, for a single legislative text, is that we firmly believe in the will to build the Catalan Republic of the equals. Notwithstanding this, it is more relevant to talk about a law that is used to map discriminations, that is used to permeate oppressions and privileges, that can be an instrument that marks invisible rapes and allows you to line up the needle: Islamophobia, racism, masculist rapes, gender discriminations. And it is opportune in this country to map out discrimination. It's an opportunity in a country that's still with the wounds of fascism. Tomorrow concretely it will be seventy-eight years that the fascism breaks into the city of Figueres to extend the long night of the franchise. Seventy-eight years later, he was not expelled from the streets, from the courts, from the organizations or from the institutions at all. It is opportune when last week the registrar of Badalona in Comú, Fatima Taleb, denounced racist insults Islamophobs that more than a year ago than suffered. It is opportune when diluns made three years of the murders of Tarajal and without clarification of responsibilities; yes, with rotating doors: Arsenio Fernández, to advise to the Electric Network ; « racism of the State, we could say. We could continue to explain that fifteen bodies were found, but that some witnesses explain that eighty-eight were all the people who took the trip to the straits and that the more the bodies were found. It is opportune when SOS Racism – I have already quoted it before, the report, I have not defined what I said, I have only said that complaints of racist attacks were increasing – more concretely, that they do not only increase complaints of racist attacks in the year 2015 – because it is the last report we have, that of 2016 is about to come out – but the most alarming fact is that 35_percent of these attacks were perpetrated by Catalan security forces and bodies. It is opportune when the xifra of feminicides in the Catalan Countries in 2016 was of thirty-three women, and this week's head they have murdered four women from the Spanish State, sexually assaulting a minor at the edge of the river Tordera and yesterday a murder in Syria, as a Member has already said before. It is opportune to point out, therefore, that we live in a society that suffers from racism, xenophobia, masculinity and discrimination which attack the difference and which, incidentally, goes so far as to say, remains unpunished. It is therefore opportune to draw this mapping of discriminations so as to be able to mark the coordinates that come from the old systems of oppression, of genera, of class, of race. But, as we have already explained, neither the instrument to draw the map nor the use that can be made of contradictions. Unfortunately, we want to work an instrument that can be visible and that can bring out these discriminations that affect the citizens of our small country on a daily basis; some Catalan countries that have seen some people no longer are – Guillem Aguló, Sonia Rescalvo –; some Catalan countries that suffer from discrimination on a daily basis: the members of the union who see how they are being persecuted day after day, too; the members of the anti-racist country of Salt and Girona, who report racism on a daily basis at the time of their arrival, and who see themselves, mysteriously, in the House of the Ownership of Girona, as well as the members of the anti-racist country of Salt and Girona, as well as the thousands of women who are suffering from racism at the time of their arrival, and who are seeing themselves as, mysteriously, in the House of the Ownership of Girona, who have been available to foreigners; the thousands of women who are suffering from the day after their arrival, and they are in the House of the House of the House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of House of People, available available available for....................................... People for People for Ab Ab Ab With contradictions and knowing that we will succeed in drawing the map of oppressions, we have worked on this law; from the highest honesty and humiliation, and without any expectations that we can't achieve. That's right, with clear references. Discrimination has a name, it articulates itself as the practice of ancestral oppression systems operating in our home. Angela Davis : « Genre, race and class; Malcolm X : « Capitalism is not understood without racism, and the principles of anti-feixist movements of this small country : « Here, to the Catalan Countries, it cannot be democrat without being anti-feixist, for the context, why we come. And anti-physisism, as well as rebuking authoritarian, racist, masculinist and classist political attitudes, as the political mark of the law. So, from the firm anti-feixist conviction, this law is an instrument to bring forth everyday discrimination, a way of mapping Islamophobia, sexism, racism and class hatred to our home. Before the law, and so as to be able to trace this concrete map, the law shares the criteria of the European Commission against racism and intolerance, and understands discrimination as any distinction, exclusion, restriction or preference based on certain grounds, such as race, colour, sex, idiom, religion, national or social origin, economic position, birth or any other social considerations, and which has the object or result of nullifying or undermining the recognition, enjoyment or exercise in conditions of equality of human rights and the substantive freedoms of all persons. This concept of discrimination is materialistic on the basis of phonental concepts that are exposed with detention – I will now list them, I will not make all the definitions, but they can consult them to the law – racism, anti-Semitism, Islamophobia, anti-Egyptism, xenophobia, discrimination for reasons of gender, feminicide, sensellarism and aporophobia. These are the concrete names of the discriminations; we certainly have not left, and we can certainly incorporate them during processing. But, we insist, names and surnames to discrimination to avoid playing the theses of false neutrality. And, obviously, without prejudice to the concrete laws that address the specific areas – the LGTBI Law, the Law of the Right of Women to Eradicate Masclist Violence, the Law of Equality between Men and Women, etc. This would therefore be an umbrella which, for one band, incorporates in the Criminal Code the definitions of hatred previously exposed and which, for another band, sanctions administratively the discriminations which until today were complicated to punish in order not to have a legal _mark. In this sense, we want to highlight how gender mainstreaming is key..., the law makes a special point of the work environment, but also of feminicides and male violence as hate crimes; they are surely the most numerous discriminations in our home and also the most unpunished, those that pass more daily and those that have less daily needs – to what is said micromasclisms. For another band, the law creates a commission for independent and multi-disciplinary non-discrimination, made up of members of the judiciary, the prosecution, the government, human rights organizations and the Greuges Union. The commission will be located in the Greuges Union and is competent to initiate the administrative expeditions of sanctioning regime, the imposition of sanctions, and will be responsible for pushing, preparing and approving protocols of action in the mark of the different public administrations and also in the mark of the police units. The law of the government sets up an organism that looks like it, and we understand that we can certainly find a way to intertwine the two initiates. The law and the commission will recognize as legitimate the popular and citizen action as the denouncing side, even though it is not a concrete victim of discrimination, in order to facilitate the entities and collectivities that fight fascism to have an instrument at the abst. In fact, this will be some of the things that we will deal with that the government wants to incorporate, and the rest of the groups too, into its body. And, finally, for us, this is a humble – and I repeat: humble – contributing to the anti-fessist struggle, or so we want to hear this law. We want the full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination to be an institutional tool that demonstrates, marks and names racism, sexism and class hatred in our society; mapping discriminations, maps of oppression systems in their concrete manifestations. And, as it could not be otherwise, we are aware of the limitations of the institution in its capacity and capacity to generate measures for social transformation. Therefore, we understand the law as a more practical instrument, yes, that it is possible to lay to the servant all the work that is already done, of all the fabric that already exists, and that it plant daily face to the structures of oppression in all its forms, and that it is the true key back of the anti-fessist struggle, essential struggle, we understand, to build a country where the house of differences that drew the poet Audrey Lorde, is the reference for the construction of a political project from coexistence, respect and equality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.341.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. In order to defend the threat to totality, presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr. Juan Milián has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.342.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, MPs, MPs, rise to defend the threat to the totality, of my party, to this proposal of the law of the UPC "against all forms of hatred and discrimination, says the title. We can do what the proposing group only does, and reject a proposal not so much for its content as for whom it presents it. The UPC often does this; they say: "The proposal is good, but like the People's Party, so we don't accept it; "They don't have credibility, they tell us a lot of times. Well, I won't talk about the credibility against the hatred of Mr. Garganté's party, that governor who hates him not only as a nice tattoo on his hand, but also as the main course of conduct that led him to be convicted of violent acts. We do not present a statement to the totality because the CUP does not have credibility in the fight against hatred and discrimination; we do not do so because this is a game that supports the cream of flags of democracy like France or Spain; it is not that you are in favour of it being able to do it, it is that you are in favour of doing it; you are in favour of acts of incitement to hatred against the French, the Spaniards and the rest of the citizen of the European Union, because they also support the cream of the community flag. I don't think this is a love show. And it is that the UPC is very selective with this to condemn hatred and discrimination; we have listened to the previous intervention. We could give a lot of examples. Does the CUP condemn hatred and discrimination against those Catalan families who simply demand that their right to school their children in a bilingual school is fulfilled? Or does the CUP feed speeches against these families who only ask for something they have right? In the best of cases, the CUP required these families to say that they are few, as if the phone laws were a question of figures. The last few days we have seen a serious case, in Balaguer, where someone has filtered the identity of the children of a family who had obtained a favorable judgment of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia to attend a 25_per_cent of assignments in castle– a 25_per_cent, not a 100_per_cent or a 75_per_cent or a 50_per_cent, a 25_per_cent. This family has had to change from an educational centre because it has suffered pressure and has suffered astoundingly through social networks and on the street. In other cases, we have seen physical campaigns of coercion against these families in other areas of Catalonia. Is the CUP in favour of the Generality repairing the damage caused to these minors? The Generalitat is responsible for not guaranteeing principles such as pluralism, inclusion or social cohesion, and is not guilty of not completing the feelings that protect the rights of citizens. But the question is, who is the CUP with, with the families, with these families who are victims, or with those who support these families? It's not the first family in Catalonia to hate and discriminate in this very sense, and we've never heard them defend them. Nor have I seen them very concerned when Mr. Santiago Vidal acknowledged that he has been making lists, with the Generality, of public workers who agree with his ideology – good public workers, painful public workers – preparing for purge. If the question is to discriminate and expel non-independence, then it's good for you. It was said before by the Member of the CUP, who was still in the context; everyone should not be protected equally. Clari, who marks the context? Clearly, as the non-independenceists we are not even citizens of Catalonia for those who speak of Catalonia as if it were only those of the independenceists... And it's that this thought, this way of thinking, encourages hatred and discrimination, even though it doesn't exist, and I could give it a thousand examples where the people of my party have been victimized, but I can also expose it to furious attacks with threats and insults against members of other parties or ideologies, as recently, for example, has passed, suffered Mr. Joan Boada. I am concerned about its asymmetry in criticisms; an asymmetry that shows certain prejudices and discrimination. For example, when they attack Catholic England and do not come to denounce the sacra, for example, of the burca. « Everything depends on the context, they say. And who defines the context? The CUP? « Free bar against Catholics, did the deputy of the CUP come to say? And there could be many more examples of the CUP favoring not only hate and discrimination, but also violence directly. It could set as an example the campaign of violence of sectors, of certain sectors of the CUP, that are pushing against the councillor of Sanitat, those cartels that are prompted to beat the councillor Toni Comín. Before submitting a proposal like this, perhaps it would be good for you yourself to report this type of campaign that incites hatred and violence; perhaps before submitting some of the articles that you are presenting to us today, you should add them to the status of your party and not allow these calls to violence. Clearly, now the CUP is allowed everything, because they take the assumptions out of them. That's the context he wasn't talking about. Even if he's allowed to scream to beat the Lord Comin. I ask them to do a little empathy exercise. Can you imagine that you've been any other political party in this room that made a campaign like this? Are you imagining that you were the People's Party that ran a campaign calling for violence against Councillor Comín? The same CUP would have accused us of not knowing how many negative connotations and of inciting hatred; but, of course, if the CUP does, the context allows it. The claim of moral superiority does not sometimes allow us to see or pose in the skin of others. And sometimes it's good for someone to put them in front of a lookout. Mr Mirin Mirinel, Councillor of Sanitat, has done very bad things, is not acting well, and I think that this government does not have public health as one of its priorities, but before asking someone to do so, they might have to look at it and not approve of autonomous assumptions that, if we had approved them, they would have told us that they were neo-liberally saved assumptions. But, I said earlier, we do not address the whole issue because the UPC does not have any credibility in the fight against hatred and discrimination; we will not do as you do, to discriminate against proposals according to who presents them, regardless of whether or not they improve the situation of Catalans. In this case, we address the whole issue because it is not a good law proposal to fight discrimination. You present a proposal for legislation that fundamentally affects the scope of labour legislation. This is because they know that the Constitutional Court annulled some articles of the Law 17/2015 that purport to regulate what is the exclusive matter of the State by virtue of article 149.1.7 of the Constitution. In this sense, they already act like a traditional nationalist party, like the convergence of all life, huh? You already know that the nationalist parties always do the same with the aim of making more propaganda than not government actions; they present in all the laws unconstitutional articles, some articles, for, a while after cancellation, being able to do two things that they like very much: the first is to become the victim– nationalism, you already know that it does not feed on good ideas, but it feeds on victimism and conflict–, and the second is not to do anything, nor to apply the constitutional articles, not to exercise the powers of the Generality. Those who put Catalonia's self-government at risk are not the Constitutional Court, which in any case guarantees it; those who put the self-government at risk are the nationalist governments of the Generality, which, between threats of disobedience and prevarication, do not exercise their powers. From the Law 17/2015, counsel, are perfectly constitutional articles 36.2, 39.4, 41.1, containing guidelines or criteria for the performance of public authorities with the aim of favoring the implementation of plans of equality to enterprises, facilitating programs of support to union formation for collective bargaining with a gender perspective, and is old for respect for the right to equality and non-discrimination by reason of sex in the dispatches of employment regulation. The ruling also declared constitutional all the articles governing the sanctioning regime aimed at ensuring the compliment of the measures taken against the law. The problem is that nationalist governments announce and then do not implement them. We saw it yesterday at the Equal Commission of People: all of them – all of them – said the same thing, that here, in this chamber, there are laws. It was about three in concrete terms, one of them that I have just mentioned, but after the Generality does not complete, does not make them effective. The different associations that appeared reported lack of political will, lack of resources, lack of strategy, lack of coordination, lack of diagnostics, lack of training, lack of effectiveness, lack of prevention, lack of dedicated devices, lack of services. Yes, they denounced much – much – loneliness and abandonment on the part of the Government of Catalonia. Besides, we think we should focus on doing the right thing and doing it with the bill that the government just introduced to us for equal treatment and non-discrimination. Honestly, I think it's a much broader, more complete text than the one presented for the CUP. It's not perfect, it's obvious, we've said it almost every doorman, but it's a much better text – much better. And since we have a better text to work on, I think it's common sense for this whole thing to come along. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.343.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. Then, to turn against it, has the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.344.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Milián, look, we don't vote for most of your proposals because... for your policies, say so, huh? But it's concrete, huh? It is not a fallacy, the typical rhetorical fallacy that is used to discredit the adversary, because it is said to him: "Oh, no, you're not right about all this. No, no, it's just that it's concrete there, you guys are going to end up with security and foreign policies that are responsible for deaths, that are responsible for violations of rights, and so we don't vote for the proposals that go on this line, huh? They're very concrete, the raons. Do you want us to talk about the governor of Barcelona Josep Garganté? Let's talk about it, because we're a little bit far-fetched that systematically in the House of this Parliament they're disrespectful. And, therefore, we ask you one more time, we have already done various things, which, please, I would rather disrespect you. In fact, if you want, we can talk about some unions in the Urban Guard with whom you flirt, to say it in your own way, and defend, and often to the Commission of the Interior..., and here you could accuse concrete people of the alleged crime of documentary falsification – and this you know it – in the trial of Governor Garganté, to whom they absolved. So, if they want us to talk about Mr. Garganté, let's talk about it. Now, they're not disrespectful and we're talking to each other with propriety. If they want us to talk about hate, it's perfect. It's just that you went to where I tried to explain it before, but maybe I didn't explain it well enough. We do an analysis of oppression and privilege. And you talk to me about the language, about the families who ask to be able to study in the Spanish language. That's what it's about, oppression and privilege, Mr. Milián! Or perhaps you prefer us to talk about the many attempts to abolish the Catalan language in Valencia, which you, in the name of multilingualism, have tried, and in the name of being able to study English, Spanish and even Chinese, if you have followed the opportunity, have tried to abolish the Catalan language. Or maybe we can talk about hate from the perspective of privilege and oppression with connivance with the extreme right that you have had in the same Valencia Country. Or maybe we could talk about hate as a privilege and oppression clause in the Islamophobic statements that his spokesman made with regard to the registrar of Badalona in Comú Fàtima Taleb. Also, if you want, we can talk about Tarajal, I said before, of the fifteen deaths to the beaches of Tarajal, that he did not judge the responsible and did not only not judge, but that he was given a charge to Red Electrica. "Swimming door," I said earlier. But we can also talk about hate, if they want, from here. I, if they fly, we can also talk about the burca, and so much! We ask ourselves how, if you are so concerned about the discrimination of women of other origins, do not denounce the foreign law, for example, which has a clear, say..., a clear perspective of gender or gender discrimination. And you can talk, for example, about regrouped women who depend on their husband to be able to work. And we're surprised that you didn't report the foreign law. It must be for the same reason that you support the law of the government but not ours, because you talk about concrete discriminations from a concrete class perspective does not make them very much thanks. Said Santiago López Petit that class struggle must always be a political perspective. And it is quite obvious that if we apply this political perspective you are often on the side of privilege. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.345.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.346.0	Thank you, President. We close today's session with a law with a title very similar to the government bill : Llei integral contra totes les formes d'odi and discrimination. It also deals with rights that all public authorities are obliged to promote and guarantee because there are higher standards that bind us. Some of them have been listed in the previous intervention, and it is that if our task as public authorities under the Constitution is precisely to promote the maximum effectiveness of the principle of equality and its correlation with the prohibition of unjustified discrimination, it is not enough with a naif approach that merely reproduces articles of the Spanish Constitution, the Statute or state laws such as that of equality between men and women. Equality is a principle which we must obviously praise at the legislative level and which we must promote with our parliamentary activity. That is precisely why both our motions for resolutions in this Parliament and our legislative initiatives are aimed precisely at achieving this equality. I have previously cited some, the deployment of the LGTBI Act, the Equality Act, proposals to combat homophobia and machism in sport, for the non-discrimination of persons with disabilities... And we do so under the guiding principle of article 14 of our Constitution, our maximum source of inspiration. Because a person who is discriminated against, whatever the reason for his discrimination, is a person who is prevented from freely developing his life plan because any discrimination arises from believing that there are better identities than others. Because an advanced society is one that considers everyone free and equal regardless of sex, gender identity, place of birth or skin colour, social origin, religion or language. An advanced society is one that does not see in plurality and diversity a distortion of any natural order. An advanced society is the one that fights united for freedom of rights and not the one that seeks to plot the political community for reasons of identity. Because all discrimination is born, as I said, of believing that there are better identities than others. Thus nationalism is born to consider that there is only one cultural identity, xenophobia is born from the identity of origin, homophobia is born to consider that there is only one sexual identity or only one model of family. And it is up to all of us to work for equal rights and opportunities, and to work for equal treatment and non-discrimination is not to replicate the articles of a law on Catalan equality suspended by the Constitutional Court in the area of equal work. To work for that equality is to require the Government to enforce the law that really protects those rights. The Spanish Equality Act in force since 2007, the law that the Government does not apply because it does not want to. And this is where the exchange gets embolized. We have a law on Spanish equality that contains labour rights, then a Catalan law that copies those rights, which are suspended because they already exist. And now we have a bill that copies another law, that copies another law. This sounds like Groucho Marx. Article 4 of this proposed law is literally copied from article 33 of the Catalan law, which is suspended, on the prevention of sexual harassment in companies, which is practically based on the Spanish law, article 48 – which to deny Spain although they copy its legislation. This bill states: "Companies must establish specific procedures to respond to complaints or complaints that may be made by anyone who has been harassed. And the Spanish law says: "Companies must promote working conditions that prevent sexual harassment and harassment on the grounds of sex and must establish specific procedures for their prevention and to give way to complaints or complaints that may be made by those who have been subjected to it. Practically identical with the difference that Spanish law is the one that is much more complete. And this is replicated throughout article 4, which speaks of trade union leaders of equality, which is based on 48 of Spanish law. Article 5 of the plans for the equality of enterprises is based on 45 of the Spanish law. I invite you to compare them, really, do it. The rights set forth in article 6 correspond to those set forth in article 48 of Spanish law. 7 and 8 of this bill correspond to article 43, so we could have a good time. It's like when when you were a kid you used to switch the chromes and play the "tengui, tengui, falti, tengui", only in this case there's no "falti", because there's nothing new, they're all "tengui". Nothing new is introduced. [[Some applause.]] It collects rights that already exist, but that the Government does not apply; it does not apply with the excuse that they are suspended by the Constitutional, but it is that this argument, I said before, is based on a great lie: this so bad Constitutional Court has not removed the tools to fight against inequality in the workplace, because those rights already exist. And it is very cynical for a court to be blamed that what it has cancelled is the euro per prescription that this government applied in Catalonia and that it did seriously attack equality and eat with people, with the most disadvantaged people with chronic diseases. Resuming: these rights already exist and the Generalitat's obligation is to implement policies that guarantee their fulfilment. The 2007 law must be believed and implemented and not ignored only because it is a Spanish law. This discourse is the fault of another, which is very bad, this discourse of confrontation undermines the democratic principles that are currently in crisis because of populism, attacks on coexistence, attacks on tolerance, attacks on plurality and attacks on diversity. This speech is terribly dangerous because we have already seen in the past that speeches such as those currently held by this Government have wiped out the democratic principles of countries through hatred and intolerance. Citizens are going to abstain in the vote because they do not want to participate in what we believe is another instrument of confrontation. And if we do not vote in favour of the amendment as a whole, it is because we believe that there is an article that is really useful, that to some extent it is what we believe is missing in part from the Government's bill, that it is the only one that does not invade powers and that gives us the reason that the Government really has mechanisms to guarantee citizens' rights. The article that obliges the Administration to provide comprehensive, effective and effective protection to victims, and also recognizes the right to free legal assistance. I conclude my speech by asking the Government to stop generating confrontation and work for the equal rights and freedom of people, not by raising a border between people who share the same political decision-making space. The claim to raise a border where there is no border is an objective contrary to the nobility of uniting a society under the principles of freedom and equality of the right of persons. The civilized thing is to unite and not separate. Do not count on us on their way to division and confrontation, because in the defense of the universal principles of equality of people and rejection of gregarious instincts it is where they will find us, where they will find Citizens: in the policy of dialogue, in the constructive negotiation and in the search for aspirations such as achieving the maximum possible equality in our society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.347.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, the words of Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.348.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members..., go for it that the Socialist Parliamentary Group will give support to the handling of this proposal of full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination, which the Parliamentary Group of the Constituent CUP has presented, and will do so voting against the threat to the totality presented to the People's Party. We are reassured and it seems absolutely reasonable that a consensus has been reached to deal jointly with this proposal and the draft law, which have a clear connection and which I believe may, therefore, be complementary and which should not be particularly difficult to integrate into a text. And I intended to focus intervention on something that now makes me consider prosaic or a nimity, which is talking about the text. Also, I would like to make a series of considerations because I listened attentively to the people who preceded me in the use of the word, both in this debate and in the debate on the bill, and it seems to me that there have been very interesting reflections. In particular, I have to say that I think we can share the focus that the Catalonian Group has made Yes, it is Pot, that it has not yet spoken in this debate, but it has done so in the past, and the CUP Group, in the sense that it is absolutely impossible to address a debate on equal treatment, non-discrimination, hate speech, etcetera, without taking into account the context, eh? the historical context, the evolution of the modes of production that have happened to our planet and that, in a certain way, they still agree, in a certain way, that they have given place to certain social structures, class structures, and to a certain culture, certain cultural forms of which all of us here, with greater or lesser degree, in plans or buds and, therefore, we also carry with us all this burden, right? And without the intention of being grandiose, because we are in the debate of what we are, it is certain that initiates tend to build the mark necessary for a genuinely equal society, so they are initiates that are actually proposing an authentic change of civilization, because they have accompanied us with inequality, discrimination, since the dawn of our species, right? And, therefore, I think it is absolutely essential that we address this with this joint view, with this context that I was commenting on. And it also seems to me opportune... a list of examples has been made of why it was opportune for you to arrive at this moment in this bill's proposal. We will not discuss the opportunity; it seems to us that some of the questions that have been said are very reasonable. We would simply like to add one, which is that we are also in a context of relegation of identity, of Europe and perhaps of the world, which produces manifestations that sometimes go, let us say, simply from Euroscepticism to manifestations that are much more worrying, from rebuking the very foundations of a democratic society, which are becoming majority societies in societies that we have well at will, such as Hungarian or Polish, where the emphasis is on different parts of this affirmation of the job of which the spokesman of Juntes for the Yes spoke before. The question of religion as a national identity factor, in the case of Poland very clearly, and sometimes, let's say, overtly political expressions that signify a resurgence from the extreme right of the fascist and even the Nazi sign, as is the case with Greece or as is the case with what is happening in Bulgaria, with a government that promotes citizen patrols that cross the border in the hunt for refugees and migrants, right? Therefore, in this context, it is also very important that we propose ourselves, let's say, objects like those that are proposed both to the project and to the purpose of the law. Because the prohibition of discrimination has been discussed, and it has also been discussed in this debate, of Article 14 of the Constitution, but it seems to me that there is never much emphasis on Article 9.2 of the Constitution, which obliges the public authorities to remove the impediments that exist for the full freedom and equality of individuals and groups in which they are integrated, in order to achieve real and effective equality and freedom. They are texts that are in the Constitution and that are also in our Statute with a practically identical writing. It seems to me that this is the basis of the text that is presented today, and, therefore, to great lengths we share it. At the end and the end, we're all in the middle, somehow, we're strangers living in a certain place, and we're all in the other place, too, huh? Because I think that..., here we have talked about the other part, the other part of the difference; I, let's just say, would introduce one morning: I think that what he does most for the other is that in the background he is us, and that he is a miracle of what we are, of what we might be, of what we have been and perhaps of what we may be. And, therefore, I believe that the most radical thing that can be done in this context is to claim that, from the plurality and diversity that we want in all our societies, all of us are always ourselves; the other, too. I don't know if he just called, but I think he's got me. Look, respect the text, say we have to be curious, effectively, for partial coincidence with the text of the bill; I think this will be salvageable if we all volunteer. Also with the existence of a more concrete sectoral law, which was made, on 11/2014, against the LGTBifóbia. Both the proposal, in its additional dispositions, as the bill makes some express mention and it is clear that there is the will not to reach it, but we will have to seek to be-curous, and also with the existence of other sectoral regulations that may contain similar or related forecasts with the contents of the bill. For what it does in Article 2 of the definitions, say that we agree that there are definitions of some concrete discriminations that are worth noting. On the other hand, we disagree, respectfully, about what Mrs Vehi said, respecting the need for a very concrete definition. Because sometimes, when it is intended to protect, making a very concrete definition of some attitudes and behaviors can lead to it not being considered included in what is, say, forbidden or sanctioned things that may have to be seen. I'm not saying that for the definition of what anti-Gypsy is, for example, or what anti-Semitism is, but for the definition of conduits. And in any case, what we would like is that in processing and, therefore, through the papers there are definitions that are more homogeneous. For example, the definition of anti-Semitism and Islamophobia presents some differences that we understand to be for writing and not because it is intended to introduce certain nuances, but it would seem that it could give place to some difficulty of interpretation. Then, we have to say that it might be useful to finish this category of definitions of very concrete discrimination, because if it is to be an integral law against all forms of hatred and discrimination, then, then, all that they have to see with freedom of conscience in general – not these two in concrete, Islamophobia and anti-Semitism – those they have to see with ideological options or political preferences, they should also see for somewhere..., let's say, find their place in this law. In addition, we have to say that these definitions are fan, and it seems to us well the cataleg that is established, but then in the text of the proposal we do not find a concrete translation, with specific protection, for each of these areas. While much is involved in the issue of gender equality, non-discrimination, the struggle against male violence, against settlement, with some problems that may arise because of the fact that the Organic Law 3/2007, of equality, therefore, already contains many of these aspects; but in change, it respects the rest of the discriminations that exist in the cataleg, practically what we have in Article 10, this right to effective protection, with which we are very much in agreement, but which is, let us say, generic for all other discriminations, obviously included, those that go into the immediately preceding articles and that have to see with the themes of genera that we are talking about, but we have not just found the development of the integral features that are essential to the right. Article 11 seems problematic to us, beyond the issue of competition, for its own writing. He says: "The Parliament will ensure that the current Criminal Code places the incrimination of conduits that incite... We seem to be doing very well as a declaration of will, but it is difficult to argue that the Parliament can ensure that the current Criminal Code says these things. And then, in article 19 – and I finish, president – we define the composition of the non-discrimination commission, we generate some doubts about the expression that begins at the time of describing 'in the composition, when it is said that there will be a person coming from the judiciary, a person coming from... Is it okay, but who proposes, who actually designates...? Caldria may also define the term of office, if it is to be renewed all the time, this commission, or by trams, etc., eh? But these are already considerations that obviously are not an obstacle to supporting their processing and, let's say, to keep all the will to participate in the legislative work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.349.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.350.0	Thank you, President. Well, let's talk about hate, let's talk about discrimination, about threats... That my first words are to express the solidarity of our parliamentary group with the company Joan Boada, who has recently been objected to, therefore, precisely intolerant treatment and absolutely unacceptable threats in a democratic life like cal. Well, let's say from the outset that our group will vote against the threat presented to us by the PP and we ask, therefore, that it is given the green light to the processing of this proposal for a comprehensive law against all forms of hatred and discrimination proposed to us by the UPC, still meaning, as our Gemma Lienas company did, the convenience that this proposal conflues with the Law Project for equal treatment and non-discrimination that we have just discussed at the initiative of the Government. With major or minor developments, with whatever issue, perhaps with subtle sense of doubt interesting to discuss, both proposals think they answer to the same concern, huh? , a concern that we fully share, that is, the need to complete the legal arsenal of what we have to prevent and deal with discriminatory leaflets because of gender or sexual orientation, ethnicity or national origin, and, of course, to prevent and combat all those conduits that can lead to racism and xenophobia. And this in all spheres, in all spheres of our social life: from the world of work to public space, from administration to the academic world, teaching, service, sport. The cause is gone and, indeed, as it has been pointed out here, it is time to lay down there. That is why we insist on the need to add effort and to make folds a single law, powerful, well built, widely shared and effective. And that's because we're living an undeniable era of transbals at the international level. Speaking of Donald Trump's arrival at the White House, journalist Enric Juliana said a few days ago in an inspired phrase that "a new look loaded with anger contemplates the world. And it's true. The crises under globalization in these last years have not given to a multipolar world, they have sparked bloody regional conflicts with millions of displaced people, the institutions are seeing weeds, and to the old metropolises of Europe and America the social inequalities have worsened terribly, until the point of adopting the land for the resurgence of the old demons of racism, xenophobia and fascism. It is not trivial, indeed, that a person like Donald Trump arrives at the presidency of the world's first power, nor that his first measures carry the aggressive petja of Islamophobia, of the underprivileged of human rights and freedoms, of the threat to women's rights. It is not triviality, but rather an alarm signal, when so many movements of extreme right-wing messages loaded with hatred and for others progressed in the case of liberal democracies that have so far proved helpless to put up with them. Neither Trump nor Marine Le Pen nor his counterparts represent the interests of the people's heads over the fears of those who ride, serving the most reactionary prejudices. We have entered into what we could call a phase of authoritarian neoliberalism. In reality, according to the inspired formula of another journalist, under Trump's presidency we have Goldman Sachs, which is lepenitza. A few days ago we were celebrating the anniversary of the liberation of the Auschwitz extermination camp, at the end of World War II, and in all acts a message was repeated: to remember the Nazi horror and learn from the tragedy of history, to block the step to its repetition. And he also insisted on a bold idea: the Final Solution did not emerge from the non-res and did not come back and forth. That is to say, we need to know how to detect the first threatening symptoms of fascism, when they are still gestures, intolerant attitudes, excruciating commentaries, dehumanization of that or that which is different. It may react before the scoundrel gets gangrene and before, as Bertolt Brecht would say, someone doesn't put a lid on a mediocre glue and we find ourselves with laws of exception. When Hitler came to power many people thought that the cultivated Germany would never allow the racial deliris of the Mein Kampf to end: "The Society of Nations and the democratic potentials, say others later, "will stop Nazi expansionism. We all know what happened. We also hear that the system will moderate Trump's burning. The truth, however, is that Trump expresses tendencies that emanate from the system's own insides, a system in which the virulence of inequalities threatens coexistence and undermines the very foundations of democratic institutions. And the extreme European right at these moments feels legitimized in its racist and homophobic speeches. And we must be alert, because we do not live alien to the great currents that shake the world. Today, one day, a group of students insults an Indian girl on a rolling train; the Sunday, a Muslim registrar is verbally assaulted on Badalona's streets by a group of veins. While those who in their day had tasted in that locality a mermaid of municipal lepenism, acting on these behaviors, try to deny them or banish them. It means that institutions and states promote racism when they develop policies of migration and security that lack human rights; when they train tanks and operate internment centres; when they shoot at defenseless people from a plaza, as they did three years ago at the Tarajal, or when they sweep away men and women fleeing from war and misery, and when they turn the Mediterranean into a huge cemetery. The message of these institutional behaviors is intertwined with the anguish of broad sectors of the middle and popular classes, which are unspeakable for the extreme discovery of a poor woman who never thought she should want to, or for the very threat of terrorism. That is to say, the results of a terrible democratic regression are here, part of the threats we face and the challenges we are forced to face. Therefore, welcome continue, therefore, this proposal, this proposal of the law, this initiative that supports us the same Government. Some texts that we should be able to unify, as has been said, and to work with great care, to equip ourselves, as we say to the principle, with a truly effective tool, because we understand that it is neither intended to replace nor to ignore, but, all the contrary, to complement and enhance other existing laws and devices. We have, as has been said, the law of effective equality between women and men, the law against discrimination against girls in the LGTBI collection, we have even in the Criminal Code the same definitions of hate crimes. And it's worth saying, if not the past, that both good and good laws need good and courageous policies, and actions decided from public powers. But it is indisputable that we must pay the utmost attention, as we are in parliament, to the legislative strides we make, and we must build them with the collective bargaining and intelligence of those social actors who must make them their own, giving them legitimacy and strength. For this reason, the contributions of the unions, for example, at the time of talking about discrimination in the world of work, which, beyond the corporate responsibilities of the companies, will correspond to the organizations defending the material and moral rights of workers and workers who are old for their application, as well as the participation of associations and movements, and it will also be useful to address everything that I have to see with training and the protocols to be observed by public administrations, not only in order not to interfere in any discriminatory attitude, but also to act in this sense in an exemplarized way before the society of the city. And it is that we understand that the projects that are presented and that we should know how to cover are intended to affect those conducts and situations that in the interstitials of the existing laws or wishing to contain them and which have nodded, tanmateix, buds, manifestations of xenophobia, racism, homophobia or discrimination of any kind. Everyone knows, and many examples have been exposed here: in the daily life we have in our cities, at the time of trying to lodge, for example, a piss in Barcelona, someone can ignore the added difficulties that a Muslim woman will have, for a long time behind and guarantees that I display? Certainly, neither this nor all the laws of the world can provide for the casuistic, the enormous casuistic of acts and circumstances in which they can produce offenses, discriminations, hardships, eh? Unrighteous leaflets. Citizenship must be able to react before injustice; to say it in some way, the passengers must take us from the seat before an attack, intervene or ask for help. From the law, tanmateix, we can be aware, we can put in value the equality, encourage and give to this indispensable solidary and democratic response of society, which is not a small thing. So let's get down to it and work and actually realize a project, such as you say, effective, powerful, well-confirmed and that you can provide this momentum to a cultural change and to a struggle that will not be easy in the case of our society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.351.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Next, there is the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", from the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.352.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsel – to greet the Secretary of Igualtat, Migration and Citizenship, therefore, that at this time accompany us –, deputies and deputies, today could be a good day, it could be a good day because, in fact, we would certainly approve the processing of two laws, a bill of law and a proposal not of law, against hatred and discrimination, and it could be a good day if we had not listened to some of the interventions of the different parliamentary groups. I honestly believe that from aggression there can be no building anything that is against hatred. Therefore, in addition to the tradition of this chamber, which we have always tried that this type of law, therefore, can be done with as much consent as possible, would be good for all folds and for the processing of this law, of these laws, which are important laws, so that at least in parliamentary work the attitudes of different parliamentary groups were a little more positive. The CUP - Creed Constituent today presents us with a proposal for a comprehensive law against all forms of hatred and discrimination, which has as its object, as they themselves have commented, guaranteeing human dignity, non-discrimination and equality of all people as basic and foundational pillars of a just and democratic society. That is the object of the law they are presenting to us today, and, as it cannot be otherwise, the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes we are in favour of this object, precisely, of this law. That's why we've withdrawn our whole question and announced that we'll vote in favour of dealing with this law. It is clear that with the parliamentary group we cannot disagree, because in a certain way it follows the general principles that inspired such important laws adopted in the last legislature, such as Law 11/2014, which guarantees the right of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transsexuals and intersexuals to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, or Law 17 of 2015, of effective equality between men and women, and because, as already mentioned, it follows, in a certain way, the parameters of the Law of Equality, of the draft law presented by our Government. Therefore, we will vote, as we have said, in favour of dealing with this law. This too, as some other parliamentary groups have also said, and as it seems to me that they have already laid down from the table, it would be good if it could be dealt with together, together with the law of non-discrimination; they touch on appearances, and it would be contradictory and even if we could reach a certain difficulty if the two laws were annexed in parallel. That said, only some preconceptions of its writing. We believe that it is a law that is short; Mrs Vehi justified us because they considered it short, and for this reason, as a group that we support the Government, we understand that a law of non-discrimination must be wider. There are, for example, aspects of discrimination such as functional or age discrimination. In particular articles challenged by the State of the former Law, the Law of Equality, the Law of 17/2015, articles in which obviously we are perfectly in agreement with this article, but we understand that these articles should be able to remain in that same Law of Equality. It's a very synthetic law, without details in some areas of action. In the different obligations of the public authorities we also remain, so... that we understand that they can be further expanded. Nor does it oblige or propose regulations on the public and private sectors. We believe, therefore, that some of these points could be expanded. We also believe that some of the definitions that are in the section of general definitions could be different, or at least we could talk about it. We have no jurisdiction in the Criminal Code for the time being, even if we want to have them, but we do not have them for the time being. And it regulates a regime of sanctions and infringements that is very complex, that we need to look at, and we also need to look at the generic non-discrimination law's articulation so that we don't get into contradictions. As I began my intervention, Catalonia has always been a pioneer and advanced country in the defence of individual and collective freedoms. The parliamentary and legislative procedures that have been in this chamber have always been seven copies. We have been pioneers in legislation as we have commented on, and in fact rather earlier, even in the past century, that have been laws that have been set up through important participatory processes, not only from the same parliamentary groups, but also from civil society, and also from organised civil society; prior to the law's writings, so much if they come as drafts of the law with proposals of law, but above all – in the parliamentary process; contributions that have always been very rich and that have helped to set up a law that can please most parliamentary groups. This is mainly our main treasure, the treasure that we have traditionally had in Catalonia, which is to be able to agree most of the laws, those laws that we consider to be transcendent and fundamental for the day-to-day life of our country. We understand that this represents for many parliamentary groups to have to give up some of our initial ideas, but at least until now we have tried to give up these initial ideas in order to be able to reach a consensus that allows us generously to have laws that are transversal and that, moreover, can be lasting in time, regardless of who the political parties are that at every moment are, therefore, at the head of the Generality. The project, therefore, of non-discrimination and this project that you present to us can be perfectly incardinated. I would like to make some brief reference to some of the interventions, and I may go on horseback between the intervention of the bill and the bill's proposal. To Mrs. De la Calle, it is true, the articles that are and have been challenged by the Constitutional Court are certainly similar to the Spanish articles. The difference is that we want to have skills over these articles; it's not a matter of copying or not copying the articles, but we want to have competence. And I remind you that these articles your parliamentary group – the president of your parliamentary group was the spokesman, at those times, therefore, of the law – should not see any signs of unconstitutionality, because they approved them. You approved, like the rest of the parliamentary groups, these articles that the court today considers unconstitutional. To Mrs. Moreta, it is true, the Law of Equality..., there is a way to go before it can reach its fullness in its processing, but it brings a year and a half of approval. Forty years of dictatorship and a history of patriarchy, it's complicated that they can get to work out in no time. Just like the Law against Homophobia, a law that is unique to the world, at least to secure Europe, and to the world surely also, that cost a lot of its processing and that costs a lot of its implementation between the different spheres of government, it is a law that costs, it is true. The parliamentary groups were talking about yesterday's Igualtath Commission; my reading is completely different from his. They said that entities are complaining, that the law did not go fast enough at the time of its implementation. I want to see it in place: we, like the country, Catalonia, can talk about the implementation of a law, which cannot happen anywhere else in the world. So, it's true, it's certainly not as fast as the same government would want, but at least the steps are firm. Therefore, we encourage all parliamentary groups to do a good job of ponència, with participation and without prejudice. The debate allows for consensus positions, writings, legal terms that provide us with wealth and ensure that this execution is lasting over time. The issues and the debates are of great complexity and sensitivity to many citizens of our country, who must see in this law the guarantee of their fundamental rights, and our responsibility is to provide us with a useful tool to make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-08-2901.353.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall then proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the speech to the totality has been rejected by 8 votes in favour, 90 against and 25 abstentions, the Proposition of full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination continues its processing. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
