ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government about his actions in the province of Tarragona]] [[300-00150/11]] Very good morning to all of you. The eighth item on the agenda is: inquiry to the Government on its actions in the province of Tarragona ; presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Lord Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.2.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, MPs, MPs, the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group presents this question with a constructive soul. We'll talk again about issues that may seem recurring, but, well, that's very normal in a parliament where we often live on the day of the marmot; we know that. We'll talk about some of the fears that may not be in the wake of the hurricane of political current, but of course worry many of our fellow citizens, and we think that some should worry and take care, perhaps more intensely, of the Government of the Generality. We will talk about infrastructure; we will also talk about social services, agriculture, food, fisheries, the environment, industry, employment, tourism, energy, water policies and, of course, we will also talk about health and education. Our will, opening this debate, is to work among all to achieve an effective equality between the citizens of Catalonia, visquin on visquin. We want equity in the provision of essential services, we want equal opportunities; equality, a fundamental principle of our democratic order that must be present, at all times, in government action. An equal opportunity that can only come from the hand of another fundamental principle of the democratic order in force: solidarity. The solidarity of the citizens of Catalonia must come from the hand of government to all our fellow citizens, also to the south of Catalonia, also to all Tarragons – to all – without distinction. Entering the nucleus of this inquiry, the province of Tarragona is at the Cua de Catalunya for which it does at the occupancy rate, and clearly above the turbulent rate of the conjunction of Catalonia. To give some examples, both the Baix Penedès and Montsia follow the Cua de Catalunya for what it does to the occupation, with a difference of the round of nine percentage points for what it does to the registrar atatur respects the middle of Catalonia; we still have a lot to do. It is true that the economy and the labour market are gradually recovering, but we continue, as it happens in Spain, to much under the occupation taxes of the European Union, and much under what is desirable, in Lower Penedès, in Montsia, in Tarragona and in Catalonia, with a very hard influence on the collection of majors of forty-five years old, who suffer a rate of sourness that is usually very close to 50_percent. They can't pull pit. We've got a lot left to do, and we've got to do it among all of us. You know our commitment to infrastructure, and you need to know that not always our commitment coincides with the vision of the Government of the Generality. Today I want to expose, once again, our position respects an essential infrastructure, such as the Mediterranean Corridor; very important for the Tarragonans, very important for all Catalans; very important to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies. And when we say that we are not talking only about Tarragonese or Catalan companies, I am talking about many companies, in the joint venture of Espanya, that they gain competitiveness, also with the reduction of costs and time of transport and distribution of raw materials, products and services. I cannot remember that we are on a global market and that competition prevails. And, therefore, the competitiveness of entrepreneurs and workers is key. Therefore, the conditions of mobility of people and goods are essential to ensure a sustainable and sustained level of economic growth. We are well aware that some key infrastructures are not the competence of the Government of the Generality – they are not from the point of view of the competitive distribution between central and autonomous administration – but they are essential infrastructures that will have to worry and occupy it. Therefore, the infrastructure department, in this case, but also the Government of the Generality in its conjunction, to which we are asking, must take care to achieve, as soon as possible better, that the works are moving forward with a more intense rhythm. Because we need it. Because we tarragons need it. Because we need Catalans and our businesses. Because it needs Catalonia and the conjunction of Spain. Mirin, in the construction of essential infrastructures, like this one from the Mediterranean Corridor, things have been done very badly. On behalf of the governments of Spain? Yes, of this and of the previous ones– yes. But also on the part of the Government of the Generality and some local governments that have not known, at different levels of administration, to have the strategic vision necessary to achieve the results. The main function of this corridor, on the part of the Government of the Generality, is to achieve that, in the end, the strategic vision is imposed; that the emergency solution of the third thread is to follow this, a temporary option, not another piece in an infrastructure that must connect us to Europe without any impediment, technical or standard. You know the situation. But we insist: we must continue to negotiate with the Government of Spain, from institutional leiiness, without hiding in the pedagogy of the burden, and we must make an effort to ensure that transport infrastructures are served by citizens and businesses, and that they are not used as a tool of confrontation that can harm the main objective: good infrastructures that respond to current and future needs and that are served by citizens and businesses. We are concerned about the situation south of Tarragona, a territory in which to enhance industrialisation and avoid the possible closure of industries with many years of activity. In this sense, we congratulate ourselves on the viability of the Ercros plant to Flix, also linked to the viability and maintenance of Covestro to the southern polygon of Tarragona chemistry. Ciutadans was the first parliamentary group to bring this question to this Parliament. We are concerned, and very concerned, about the situation of Flix's embassement and the decontamination of water and Ebre's lotus. Also, the treatment and removal of the dried lots, and, of course, the cleanness of the land affected. We are concerned about the Ebre Delta, because of the erosion – a firm compromise with the management of sediments, and it is important to do so in the case of the Ebre Hydrographic Confederation – because of the quality of the water of the baths of the Fangar and the Alfacs, of great importance for the food of muscles, oysters and cloïsses; because of the defense of the camps of Arro – because of a more firm fight against the apple cargoman – or the maintenance of the ecosystem of the Delta, one of our best natural spaces that we have to conserve and enhance, a source of wealth and a key to the impulse of rural and environmental tourism. Speaking of tourism, all Tarragona can strengthen two complementary tourism models and in which our province has great potential. We have seen the inherited bet of the new legislature, of the Convergence Government of Esquerra's hand, for which it was called BCN World. What is the current status of the Government of the Generality project to expand the recreation and tourism centre of Vila-seca and Salou? How do we get it? But I want to talk about two complementary tourism models, both family-run, that have a lot of potential for the whole of Tarragona: tourism, let's say, of the sun and platja, and rural tourism. We must have a lot of presence, like a source of occupation and economic growth, like an industry in which Tarragona, like all of Catalonia, we are and we must continue to feel captivated. And speaking of tourism, family tourism, Tarragona, the city, does not exploit its potential derived from the condition of Roman capital. Tarraco is not well positioned in tourism linked to history and archaeological heritage. Tarraco is not, for example, at the level of Emérita Augusta. We must promote cultural policies that show the world the Roman Tarraco, this heritage of humanity – the only Catalan city that is in its integrity – and that are a touristic claim of the Tarragonese capital, that diversifies and complements the offer of pleure of the province. What do you think, the government, about the branch office south of Tarragona? Specifically, what do you think, about the centuries-old ramaderia of Braus, south of Tarragona? You know that this sector, with secular implementation, has been patenting the indefinite policies of the Government of Convergence in the previous legislature and that it is a sensitive issue for many Tarragonans, especially in the area of the Lands of the Ebre. Will the government follow its erotic policy of respect? With regard to water policies, we are very concerned about the way in which we work in this area, the Government of the Generality. We must make it clear that, even though the Government is not the same, this Government of the Generality is a direct heir to that of the present legislature. There is not the same president, because he was a big big flu, seems to be, to the current preferred partner of the government. But it has not changed a lot, because the non-opposition of the present legislature, which encapsulated the current vice president, was already, in fact, part of the government. Now, with more formality, but, I repeat, it hasn't changed much. At the time of the first legislative term, the Single European Act on Agriculture, adopted in Resolution 739/X, there was a concrete measure, promoted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group: "To develop a strategic plan of water uses for the benefit and sustainable use of water resources, meet the demands for human consumption, focused on agricultural, urban, environmental and water management uses. What do we know about this plan? Res. Well, I'm running out of time, but... that was a key. I hope, in the second intervention, that I will be able to complete, therefore, the questions which will be included in the next motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.4.0	Thank you very much, Madam President, and good morning. Good morning, ladies and gentlemen. Member of the Commission, this question is being formulated today, after approximating the same with regard to Lleida and Girona. The first thing I want to make manifest are the differences between your territorial model and ours. You speak – and have not spoken, too, on the two previous occasions – of provinces. This is not our territorial model, obviously. We consider this model to be a long-term, long-term, nineteenth-century model that we have been giving to Catalonia for some time now. We differentiate between the Camp of Tarragona, the Lands of the Ebre and the Vegueria del Penedès, which, as you know perfectly well, therefore forms part of this new territorial demarcation. And this is an inquiry – and the next question, so, of course, it's also – lost, in the sense that you have many aspects and many fears – you have all the right to do so – but it's obvious that without the will to delve into them, more than I'll try to give an answer and position myself on all those questions that you say we need to worry about and occupy. It's exactly like that. And I want to start by referring to the concepts of equality, equity and territorial balance, because they are, obviously, the basis on which this government plans its policies, taking into account and effectively starting from the equality of all and every citizen, regardless of the territory on which they live. I'll start posing as a manifesto... you didn't talk about it, but we believe that municipalities and communities are the main service providers, precisely because of their proximity to the citizen. We also have a difference here, Mr. Congressman. You always speak and propose the suppression of district councils; we believe in them, and in some of the elements that you have placed with the greatest concern..., therefore, we believe that the work, precisely, of the assemblies and district councils has much to see, from the point of view of their answer. Look, you've started referring to infrastructure, infrastructure and the Mediterranean Corridor, and I think it's an excellent week – I'm honestly saying – to talk about this issue, because after the million-dollar investment promises made in Barcelona by the President of the Rajoy Government – this president you've made, huh? , yes, we are talking about the same person – with an explicit reference to the Mediterranean Corridor, a week later the warmest is to the water, and the finding that it was a new promise that will not be, much less, executed or completed, so we already have it on the table. What's the situation on the Mediterranean Corridor? You've set it up, you know it well; I don't doubt your good intentions. What would be good is that you are serving your ability to influence these... in relation to this government of the State and the assumptions that, therefore, have already been announced, with thick figures, so, I insist, that these resources arrive. Situation of the Mediterranean Corridor and what are the essential objectives that should be addressed and finalized this 2017, 2018. So, precisely the third thread– you make it reference– Vandellòs-Tarragona; the implementation of the European standard range between Vila-seca and Castellbisbal; for 2020, rail access to the ports of Tarragona and also Barcelona; the third thread, of Reus; the nude of Vila-seca; the third thread Saragossa – Lleida – Reus - Sant Vicenç de Calders; as well as the line..., the connection between the conventional line and the high speed of the Penedès. One of the most regrettable questions is the delay in the construction of the two-way road between the Children's Hospital and the Dry Village. Because we're talking about a work that started in 2000, and said years later we still find ourselves in the same situation. He said years to build only sixty-two kilometers of double-track; on the only tram– plus, plus, single-track – that there is between València and the French border. Minister Íñigo de la Serna..., as you have said before other ministers – of the governments, both of the People's Party government and of the Socialist Party, one and the other time they have promised and promised not only resources, not only presuppostarial resources, but also dates, and, therefore, terms, that have not been completed in any of the times. Since the Department of Territories, since the conjunction of the Government of the Generality, we are absolutely loving, alert, concerned, occupied with this circumstance. The Government organizes, the next day concretely, a day – this time in Madrid – with the aim of continuing to claim and push the Mediterranean Corridor and urge the Government of the State to complete its commitments. What I am asking of you, Mr. Member, is that from this capacity of influence that you claim so often to respect the Government of the State, therefore, it contributes to making these promises effective, that they are, for another group, essential, from a point of view to guarantee the competitiveness of our businesses and our territories, that you too are busy and concerned. He also referred to the occupation taxes and to the tourist taxes of the Tarragona districts, and, moreover, he made special incidence in the region of Lower Penedès. I want to pose..., I want to emphasize that from the Government of the Generality, and concretely from the Occupational Service of Catalonia, a clear bet has been made to try to reverse this situation from the top to the top of these places – Baix Penedès, Montsia. In this sense, the Catalonian Occupational Service has increased from 3.3_million to 4 and mig– to 4.5_million euros– resources to combat the sacre of the tur in the region; which is an increase of 35_per_cent for which it makes the assumption in active employment policies. In total, and for what he does to Baix Penedès, there are a total of €9.3 million in various employment support programs, taking into account also the profiles of people– you have placed majors of forty-five years as a collection, therefore with special difficulties; it is also the young people– in that..., with the combination of programs, I insist, services and programs, orientation, occupation and training actions aimed at improving access to employment. You were also..., asked me about the recreation and tourism center, referring to tourism as a key sector. Here we cannot agree more: a 13_per_cent of GDP, which occupies around 375,000 workers and workers, with reptiles that we have perfectly identified, and which has perfectly identified the corresponding department, the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, which lies in the high temporality of the workers, with an excessive dependence on the European market, and the low presence of emerging and major expense markets. Precisely because of this, the national tourism guidelines 2020, such as tape, such as time, bet to increase the quality and diversify, precisely, the Catalonia brand and the integrated tourist complexes, which is exactly what they claim with the centre previously named Barcelona World, recreational and tourist centre; it acts on three central axes, which are, I think, sufficient in line with what you pointed out: the power of the tourism of negotiation and specialization, the promotion of deseasonalization and the opening up of markets with greater capacity to spend. You know that, in relation to the recreation and tourism centre, there is a maximum control of the project on the part of the Generality. There is no provision of public resources; it is a 100_per_cent private investment, but with generality control, basically from three instruments. One is the urban master plan, which preserves the identical residential uses that were established in 2006, and creates space and conditions because it can develop economic activity. Also, a competition to authorize the activities of the tourist centre – in terms of contracting, you agree with the SOC, for which, therefore, it makes the qualification of workers and workers; the environmental, social and cultural elements. And also the land purchase option where the same recreation and tourism center will be located. The contest, at these times, for the casino's authorization is open. We are ahead of a large-scale operation with a great impact on the territory, but also with a singularity of model that requires, we are not convinced, a gradual and glamorous implementation so that you can have the maximum success. I have not been able to refer to other aspects; I will do so in the second part of my intervention, where I will also want to highlight aspects of all positive and successful aspects of the territory of the Tarragona Camp demarcation, which I believe are useful for putting in value not only the work of the Government – which also, in some aspects, facilitating this economic activity and providing the necessary services to the joint venture of the city–, but also the good work and the good response of our assemblies, regional councils and disputation, as well as the joint venture and university. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word, Mr. Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Counselor. Well, you say we have a different vision and I've set up a lost one. I must tell you, respect this, that I am not a hunter; therefore, I do not serve perchants. You're talking about territories and administrative division. We are more friends to talk about citizens, rights and essential services, so that they are served fairly. Of the councillors, I did not speak of it; you know very well the position of our party. I haven't even talked about it in this young man, so it's a debate that's still on standby. I must say that the lack of investment is endemic, in the province of Tarragona, to the conjunction of Catalonia; that, I must say. It is therefore necessary to know that, in the assumptions of the Generality, investments, territorial investments are usually at the expense of the specific fish that as for the population, that as for the gross domestic product, that as for the extension it has the joint of the province of Tarragona ; if, therefore, it wants from the comarques of the Camp of Tarragona, of the Lands of the Ebro and of the Baix Penedès, integrated in this project of vegueria that has been approved a few days ago. You say that the provincial distribution is nineteenth; I don't know what the next century is, but I don't want to get into a sterilized debate. [[applause]] For that reason, I let it run. Look, for the generality, unfortunately, I have to say, it has never been a priority, the Mediterranean Corridor; this is it. You're talking to me. You're talking to me at hours. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; lately, yes; but historically, no. Because the counselor was telling me about the Vandellòs variant; she said years, that it has not yet been done. But what was the strength of Convergence and Union, when it was something at the Congress of Deputies and when it was a preferred partner for the PP and the PSOE? I haven't seen her. [[Greetings.]] Miri, tell me that the coming week will have a day of presentation of the project, or of the visit of the project of the Mediterranean Corridor, on behalf of the Generality, this commission that took place in the Department of Territories. But they'll do it to the Blanquerna. I don't know if it's the most appropriate forum. Perhaps I'd like to join the Ministry of Development, which we're talking about. Maybe it would heat that up. With regard to the sunset tax, tell him that this is a chronic problem. And the programs, which are... Well, welcome, what they're repeatedly demonstrating is the lack of effectiveness. This is a reality that they give her taxes, they give her numbers. I said to him, "We can't get up and we have to work together to solve this problem. And what could I do, too? So, we need to boost economic growth in these areas that are patenting this situation so hard. I'm talking about the CRT, I'm talking about the tourist recreation center, and you're telling me it's a project that's under control. Controlled, maybe so; but it doesn't seem like he just got excited, and we're worried – we're worried. So, how's the contest? How's it going? Hey, hey, hey, hey, That's what you might have to tell us. Miri, there are many questions that won't give us time to read them - there, to expose them - there, but... With regard to infrastructure, we also worry about toll freeways. Caldria, therefore, ensure, in any case, that the concessions to the AP-7 and AP-2 motorways, therefore, cease to hold tolls from 2019; this must be done. To boost the Tramcamp and recover the lost time in this project; to ensure the connectivity and intermodality of the new Cambrils station... There are many pending questions. There is also the opening of a pediatric intensive care unit at the Joan XXIII Hospital in Tarragona, which is an ancient claim, and the expansion of the hemodynamic unit of the Joan XXIII Hospital. It is necessary to consolidate, in the field of salvation, also the control of the mosquito and the black fly. To teach, we could talk about barracks; we could talk about them. From industry and energy, I have already told you that it is necessary, therefore, to recover the economy to the regions that are patenting the most; therefore, they are bringing down plans of industrialisation and that they are specifically or especially focused on the Lands of the Jews and the Lower Penedes. And to negotiate with the Government of Spain a policy that increases competition in the energy sector, so as to improve energy availability at lower prices for the benefit of all users, and that ensures industrial capabilities with better conditions of competitiveness. There are many questions about social services, which I will also expose to the subsequent youth. Environmental questions. Water policy, I didn't give her a taste. We will ask the government to submit a bill for water and sanitation management. And, well, agriculture concerns us about the situation at the credit sections of the agricultural cooperatives. We've seen the case of Cambrils, we've seen the case of the Canyon; we're worried that this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.7.0	Mr. Alonso, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.8.0	Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.10.0	Thank you very much, President. My honourable Member, with this second intervention, I will try to answer some questions. You talked about the reversal and you talked about a lack of endemic reversal. Allow me not to agree with you, in the sense that we all want it to be higher, it is obvious, but to the assumption of the Generality grows in these last years and passes, for example, if we speak in terms of per capita income, from 71.9 in the liquidation of 2015, to 90.31 in the assumption of 2017. Another thing is the state reversal, which unfortunately in the Camp of Tarragona – also in the Lands of the Ebro – continues – continues – and this 2017 will be reduced to more than a third; concretely, it respects the past year, a 33,8_per_cent – it respects the past year. And the State General Presumption Project, for this year 2017, plans to invest a much lower amount of money than the previous year; which, on its return, already represented a 15_per_cent decrease compared to the previous year. You say we have to continue negotiating – I said this with reference to the Mediterranean Corridor, but I think it goes for everything – from institutional loyalty. I don't know what institutional loyalty you mean, when we come precisely, as I said, from a week of sad promises and even more sad failures, huh? And I didn't exactly hear anyone from your parliamentary group, in this sense, make the least comment, precisely when we are touching here today a question that you have a lot to see with this reversal promise on the part of the State and, once more, incomplete. Therefore, all that you have mentioned with reference to equality, to territorial cohesion, to the need..., to the services that are essential for the conjunct of the territory's citizenship, so, of course, as a consequence of these heavy incompliments, you can be very touched again. In any case, honourable Member, you are quite certain that... I say lost, do not offend, but it is obvious that this is a lost inquiry, because it touches three hundred questions. It's not possible to go deeper in the direction of them. We'll see to the young man, but of course you, therefore, will refer to aspects, I mean... Barracks; so, let's just say that since 2014 you've been able to eliminate the demarcation of Tarragona forty-six modules, forty-six barracks, the same way you could pull out the finalization of works referring to teaching centers, or large expansions, or large arrangements in the later years. So the reversal in the matter of salvation could also be increased; you also referred to it. In this sense, I find it quite difficult – quite difficult – to answer all the questions that you have made reference to: the toll, the water and many others that I certainly don't remember. What I want, in the short time that remains, Mr. Member, is to express to him the commitment of the Government of the Generality to continue working for all and every citizen, for all and every citizen of the Tarragona Camp demarcation. Citizens, their rights, essential services, as you said, are our priority objective. But allow me, as I announced earlier, to refer to some good news – a lot of good news – that also responds to this entrepreneurial ability of the territory. Miri, tomorrow, April 7, opens Ferrari Land, in Tarragona, in Camp Tarragona, a unique complex in Europe that will allow the attraction of more than 1_million users and visitors, with a very important impact on the economy. That, without a doubt, is good news. And let me also highlight, because it's very recent news, the University of Rovira and Virgil – which, in fact, is celebrating its twenty-five anniversary. The Young University Rankings, of Times Higher Education magazine, places it in the seventy-sixth position of the list of the two-hundred best universities of the world, of the youngest, of which they are less than fifty years old. And respect the previous ranking, better set positions; to band to be the third best Catalan university, behind the Pompeu Fabra and the Autonomous University of Barcelona. We can also pass on the excellent alliances that have been established between this university, Rovira and Virgili, perfectly linked to the territory and also to the enterprises, with an STEM alliance between the same university and the Chemical Business Association of Tarragona, in line with the actions that bring the universities and the most leading countries to an end, eh? , from the point of view of the promotion of scientific vocations. And a powerful chemical sector: BASF, Repsol, Covestro; you made reference to it. But not only tourism and chemistry, but also the agri-food sector. I don't have any more time, Congressman. In any case, I wanted to end this point of self-esteem and optimism, I insist, that it denotes that it is well done, that it is made from the joint administration, that it is made above all of the territory, from its enterprises and from the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.11.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.12.0	...his university. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.13.0	The next point of the order of the day is... [[Asking the Government about language and power]] [[300-00149/11]] ... interpellation to the Government on language and power; presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.14.0	Ben, good morning, everybody. We have repeatedly understood in this House that eth castelhan and the victim will give linguistic immersion and that this was a language that I have persecuted in this country. And no. It was a question of whether or not you were disputing the normalization of Catalan and Occitan languages, and that you were not even kidnapped by the victimist discords that et castelhan e e was a language persecuted in the country. They're lying. And we'll get out of explaining why. A double objective has been achieved. For one thing, explain why the languages in peril at home are not Catalan and Occitan, which are two own national languages, which are the object of continuous attacks, of violations of linguistic rights. They are languages discarded by the Spanish and French centralist nation states. And then there are those who love her from Europa: she was a European Charter of Minority Languages, signed Tanben for the Spanish State, and which is inconclusively – inconclusively. Eth second object, right, and then prove that eth Catalan Government is not for the Catalan and Occitan languages, and that eth also is the fault of August Govern that eth Catalan and Er Occitan do not continue in this situation of normalization. We want to be proactius, tanben. For one thing, reversing was a minority, eliminating it was a Catalan and Occitan substitution on the part of castelhan. And when we talk about "minorization this time we will denounce that I am a power – of differences, a power. And what's up? That the oppressed, which places in a position of fever to agustes two languages. To work institutionally before artenher that it assumed society was required of the Catalan and the Occitan, we are respecting the territories, the common language, and the language generated by the social relationship. Aguest ei eth nos objectiu: they follow the language of prestige. Now it is not; behold, it was the language of prestige, and it was Catalan, and it was not Occitan in the Val d'Aran. And when we ask – when we ask – that eth Govèrn remains proactive, this is precisely the time to empower eth Catalan and Er Occitan, and it is Catalan speaking and is occitan speaking, so that they can face up to today's minority. It was a sensation, Counselor, that it was linguistic politics not being prioritized in the government's notice; so it is because it is retailed in the year 2011 and it is a fact that it has recovered in the current budget: 37,4 million in support of the use of Catalan, when in 2011 it is 94,4 – 37/94. It was language and eth 0.16 percent deth presupòst. And then we talk about national identity, and we talk about foment, and we get out of encirclement that follows that common language, that continues with a state – 0.16 percent of that presumption. The negam was centralized only if it had to go into government, and it was intended to convert linguistic politics into a cross-section of government, centrality, prestige. One of the most important deficits that watered down was the current language policy and not a body that coordinated actions of all the Councils in the field. And we thought that it was the Directorate General of Linguistic Policy, that it was the Directorate General that was the authority, not the authority, that I am Catalan and that I was an august centrality agency. They ask if it would not be better, if it could not be considered it was possible that this direction generated gypsum of Culture and went to work apart from Presidency. Dilheu did not hear the language policy of this culture, otherwise we have to return to the centrality of this language. Increase the social use of the two own and national languages; warn him and great reptiles that we do. And to different groups in the Government's appeal, as much as they see from the Spanish state, to which Catalan and Occitan are not accustomed, they are minority languages, they are persecuted languages, they are oppressed languages by different powers. And we went to quote some of them. In the field of justice: eth 70 per cent of the workers and on conditions of working in Catalan, mes eth 8.4 per cent of the sensations in aguesta langua– somque eth 8.4 per cent. Why, can we do this in Catalan? Why hasn't there been a lot of language coercion around us? Threats due to delays in trials, threats of subjective feelings if not accepted was the language of this regime. Are you working for, depus deth Department of Justice, when it was a Catalan language that was still pre-eminent in the field? You know, he was responsible for that. It is true, however, that we are talking about other areas, for example health care, and the lack of knowledge of Catalan and Occitan difficulty was attention, in other words oral, Catalan speaking and Occitan speaking; eth castelhan ended up being a common language, and did not take any measure of the health care department, the head of the department, before guaranteeing the linguistic rights of minorities. Its plans are equipments of public or concerted salvation are constant, breath, as we did before, in that so now prayerful attention. It's meths, eth power of meths, eth power of tanben vulnerable nurses is our right language, and eth department of sanitation has absolutely no rent. We're talking about security and police forces, and here we're going to differentiate responsibilities, because, on the one hand, police forces in the state, who occupy our territories, and who impose their rules on us, so much in that language. And so, for example, there are recent incidents, such as Guardia Civiu, in the airport deth Prat, which a Catalan speaker is required to speak in chattelhan. We also want to talk about Catalan security. And there was this news that he denounced and wickedly rebuked and continued his Occitan era of Moses. Er Occitan went from scoring like the Catalan eth in competitions of naue public places to being considered for leaving Chinese deth, Romanesque deth, Turkish deth or of quinsevolhe auta langue d'aguest mon. Why did the official language and the denigrated attau peth Cors de Mossos d'Esquadra per a public function of the present country? He's inadmissible. They're insulting. And the department of management of the Interior and it was public function of the same country has absolutely no rent, allow eth Govèrn evil air occitan. We're going through economics. Hundreds of Normans are imposing eth castelhan on my own. In the past, eth 2015, the Spanish State adopted a hundred regulations that prioritize eth castelhan and so that included other official languages in our communities. One hundred to one. Eth castelhan was not a persecuted language in the country; this is his Catalan and Occitan ethos. And here we are talking about this Consumer Code, approved in 2010; that's the law that was meant to promote the rights of Catalan consumers, given a linguistic distance that provides for the labelling of products in Catalan, as long as it was realized that 90 percent of the products are illegal, do not complicate the consumption code. And that's especially dramatic, tanben, ethos the subject of phone call attention to the large misguided insurance companies, companies of sub-ministries, large operators who want to sell causes or inform us; multinationals, tanben, who call us from behind these peninsular territories and who daily marginalize the Catalan ethos and the Occitan ethos. You're bound to, if you're going to talk to me, to the castle. It was Catalan administration tanpòc met is labeled products in Catalan. You don't demand concessions. Aum Coca-cola, aum Danone... ; aum you, as long as there is no rent, and labeling in Catalan does not change. Eth power of vulnerable multinationals also have our linguistic rights. And here it is, and I will continue with the list of cranes in the second part of this intervention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.15.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.16.0	Very good morning, very honorable president. Illustrious Members, Members, Illustrious Members, very good day. Well, from the outset, I am grateful that you are interested and concerned again about the state of language and language use in our country, the use of languages in our country, and that you are doing so from a perspective of compromise, with the defense, above all, of languages that apparently could be considered minority or... minority. I want to take this opportunity to greet the Director General of Linguistic Policy, who will accompany us, and who will be sure that some of the statements you have made have redone, as at least, the half that to me or similar. [[The timer laughs.]] Well, from the outset, let him note that we would be wrong if we qualified the Catalan language..., also, even more so, according to how, the other languages that are spoken in Catalonia, as minority languages, as minority languages, and even more wrong if the approach to this topic was a partial approach to victimism. It's a Round Disbarkation to say that the Spanish language suffers persecution in Catalonia – it's a Round Disbarkation. But it seems to me that it is also an exaggeration to suggest that specific facts that may have been produced – and that, if appropriate, therefore, in this intervention we will address them – around the use of Catalan language, so they also allow us to categorically state that Catalan language or that the occupier is suffering a situation of persecution in Catalonia. It is not clear to us, there is no objective given that I can make this statement. Neither the Spanish language, at these times, is being persecuted in our country by the institution, nor the Catalan language nor the chance to suffer from any kind of persecution. To say that the Catalan language is a minority language does not fit the socio-demographic reality of our country. Without doubt, we are a nation of..., at these times, a community of about 10_million Catalan speakers, if we do not strictly adhere to the administrative limits of Catalonia. And in this sense, speaking, we assemble to nations like Denmark or so many others that also have a similar community of speakers. Nor does the legal status of the català allow us to say that we follow a minority or minority language, etc.; it seems to me that it is not adjusted and we have a legal order that gives us the necessary guarantees of legal protection. And, even better, for the reality of the use of language, the Catalan language, at these times, as it exemplifies the situation of català based on all the studies and reports we have made from the department, so, a reasonably positive moment passes, especially if we are aware of the socio-democratic reality in which it is produced, the situation of català and the situation of languages. Never forget this complex socio-demographic reality in our country: 35 percent of our people were born outside Catalonia. Therefore, this is a qualitatively relevant element that justifies certain proactive policies that we do, linked to personal linguistic rights, linguistic rights of citizens. And, in this sense, therefore, effectively, it is a challenge that we hold 17_percent of our people who were born abroad and that we have, therefore, practically, an 18_percent of the population that was born outside Catalonia to the rest of the State. In these circumstances, our policies to promote knowledge and use of catalá believe that they give reasonably positive results. This confirms, indeed, that, although we have more than 662,000 people whose initial language was neither Catalan nor occidental, so at these times they show interest in learning Catalan language. Among other things, this is what makes us see 94_percent of the population in Catalonia at these times understand the Catalan; that 80_percent of our citizens do not understand it, but that the can speak, and that in the case of the Aranes, which I am sure is very much concerned with you, at these moments a reasonably positive given: 80_percent of the Arans understand the Catalan, and 50_percent speaks it, if so desired. In these circumstances, the Government, which is not a director, what we need to do is see in which of the various spheres – effectively, in the economy, in the relationship of citizens with the institutions – the presence of Catalan language progresses adequately or not. I want to say, in this sense, good news, and it is that the Catalan language, from the point of view, for example, of its presence in the digital sphere, has seen a very positive moment. And, therefore, we could say that it is a language that has successfully faced the challenge of modernity. And in this case, so, what we have..., that you give them the most visited websites in our country ever visited in catalá is good news. As is the case, six of the two most used digital messaging systems we have in Catalonia are also in Catalan, the WhatsApp in front of everyone. The fact that four of the most used social networks in our country are still in catalá is also a good one. From the point of view of the behaviour of the markets – you mentioned it – the situation is actually very different. And we have a metropolis around Barcelona, a metropolis around Tarragona that do not effectively respond in the same way to the socio-linguistic situation that the rest of the country does. Cities as Girona, as Tortosa or as Lleida are obviously at the front of the retrellation and the stroke of the citizens and citizens in català when they're headed; in other cities, from other contexts around metropolity, the results are not so positive. In all ways, there is a fact that seems to us to be very qualitatively relevant, that it is that it systematically increases every year, recurrently, interest in learning the català. That means our language, huh? , if you allow me this subjective appreciation, it is a language appreciated from the point of view of social promotion, from the point of view of social ascent. And when a city perceives not only that a language is beautiful, but also that it is more useful, we are ahead of a reasonably positive scener. And this is a distinct element to which, in fact, public policies accompany – accompany, eh? Don't drive. In this sense, therefore, I believe that the Consorci per a Normalização Linguística is right to assume that it already has at these times at its scale more than 1.7 million students, and that at these times we have a reasonably robust network with 22 centers, 146 points of attention. In short, instruments that are obvious – and you have mentioned it – that if we had specific structures of state they could be reinforced; that if we had more assumptions, they could be strengthened. Because it's obvious – you mentioned it; I don't want to have more than I can't do in this victimistic speech than you do – that the Spanish State has systematically been unable to do the right policies of promotion, language protection, from its perspective, at the risk of being minority. It is obvious that the Spanish State has been incomplete. It is obvious that the Government of Catalonia has put its face on it. At these times we have up to five laws approved by this Parliament, on the initiative of the Government of Catalonia, which are subject to suspension by the Constitutional Court, it is obvious. And you referred to the systematic failure of the European Charter of Regional or Minority Languages, ratified in 2001 by the Spanish State. That's right. As certain as the government of Catalonia has systematically planted its face and has taken the necessary initiatives. Then, you referred to some aspects that have to do with specific incidents that have occurred in a police station in concrete form, or that have occurred, in this case, at border points – sometimes if they occur – or even in the airport system through AENA. Well, in these cases, if it suits, on the return of the reply I'll explain the protocol with which we act. Now, it is very important that we are very clear that the general trend is of absolute reduction of the incidences, and with statistics from 2010 to 2017 it is clear that the language and languages in Catalonia are not a conflict. Even though some of them would like them to be in conflict. And the extremists on one side and on the other side would like it. But language in our country is a space of finding, personal promotion, collective. Therefore, we do not have a subject that is highly valued and a very important national identity sign, a subject of conflict. Because it's not and it's unfair to approach there. It's unfair and it's wrong. You're fake, aren't you? And there's not a single one since I believed it. In 2010 we had 7,818 petitions – which I don't mean complaints – linked to the language situation or how to access the accreditation of language levels, etc. 2016 in tenim 2,673; 7,818 against 2,673. But it is that, linked to questions of rights, we have gone from 704 to 203. And, in fact, among these 203, it's there – that maybe that's what the door to confusion is for you –: if we look at what the perception is from social networks or media, we wouldn't be before about two hundred cases, but before about five hundred. When it comes to crediting these complaints formulated through media or networks, you often don't, so, there's no cause, there's nothing to say and the conflict has come, huh? , for other reasons and that the subject of language is a liberating theme that both sides, therefore, enjoy. In short, that it is obvious that Catalan language needs the esteem, the promotion, its protection, as the sign language, as the orange, but we honestly believe that the Government of Catalonia is doing, in a reasonably positive way, its work. And in any case, I'm at your disposal if you don't agree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.18.0	It is scandalized by a minority and minority councillor of Culture. They're two conects who can't see. [[Some applause.]] Second of all, there's a lawsuit going on and you'll see that he was a minority. They are not caushigat, alavetz, and we are, well, we have no victimism, and we have explained this, but you are a cophoism without any age in which they were Catalan and their minorities were Occitan languages. Speak without knowledge of cause. In the third place, speaking of a common language does not mean that you have to see where you were born, where you came from, where you went and where you came back. He didn't show up. He doesn't have ethnicist arguments. Here we are speaking of Catalan, Occitan as common languages we are respecting the territories. And if we follow on from ethos listed of cranes we could still talk about what goes on in teaching: how are they financing certain schools of elite linked to Opus Dei; how they are the religious and economic power of these great families linked to Opus Dei impose ethos castelhan in teaching. If they pass peth lining it was linguistic immersion of the country, and we finance them aguestas escolas concertades. We can talk about public universities, to which matters announced in Catalan they go to be in castelhan because eth professor ac decides or why and to a school that ac imposes. Who do you decide was a vehicular language in college? Eth University Department? Was she a Culture Advisor? Who do you decide? And we talk about culture; we talk about what goes on in the world of cinema: eth baish percentage of Catalan productions that are in their own language. Is Gaudí used; film and film films in Catalan? It is a shame that films are financed that do not apply normalization and that the dynamics of this global market are subjected to subjugation, that there are subjugations of the "tacillas", that are now self-censorship of these number of spectators. Your failure to comply and the opinion of the European Commission deth 2012 that it was mandatory to fold or subtitle was half of the films in Catalan. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And we're talking deth my publisher. Past is competence of the ISBN now Spanish agency of the ISBN, which is incomplete all are obligations that and a, cannot ask for ISBN codes in Catalan and, within a month, we find that and this brutal inequality in the offer of free people who would have been in this bookshop. You went into this bookstore: castelhan section, Catalan section. It's a month of cars, a month of storage, and we don't all have titles. What is the Department of Culture in my editorial that normalizes Catalan eth? And we're talking about communications, so corporate: we're imposing occitans on their French version. What's that? - What's that? Why do we have to hold on to this if we are a national language? We can talk, tanben, that you've come to ditz, constant attacks now united this tongue. His statistics are not from the Language Platform. If you link it to reports that you've been through since you were a kid, you'll see that it's gross discrimination in these days is a hundred and fifty years old. You said you didn't give up, that we have victimism. You don't know what I want you to say. We think that the Spanish administrations and many of the Catalans did not receive attention at the citizen and we insult and attack as Catalans and occitans. It's occitans. That is 80 percent of the Aranesi coneishen eth catalan was not given important, ace eth percentage of Catalans known to be spiders, that I am tanben official language; eth percentage of Aranesi speaking spiders, that I call a 17 percent. Every cop and month interested in learning it is spiders. And, well, despite the fact that we have not been able to denounce that it is allowed to be different practical powers from here, from here, from here, from our own languages..., from the point of view of improving the use of Catalan and Occitan society, of the dynamic forces imposed on us by the castlean ethos and of the republic of recognition of the linguistic rights of all. And this is not the competence of the Department of Culture, except that it is the authority of the whole of Govèrn. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.19.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The word has the councilman Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.20.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Illustrative Member, to give a more precise answer. From the instrumental point of view, the fact that the Directorate General for Linguistic Policy comes from the Department of Culture or the Office of the President is a matter of organization and distribution of the government's competences. Therefore, this would not make it more difficult for the Government, at the time of organizing itself, to apply general direction policies to one place or another. So, I don't have a formed opinion here. We believe that the fact that you are linked to the Department of Culture has a vantage point, and it is surely the focus-free, from the political point of view, that you assume to be linked to a department like the Presidency department, much more pressured, huh? , for reasons of political type, in the bad sense of the word. And that normally a department of culture, a ministry of culture saw in a plan not so pressured for a political partisan, conjunctural, circumstantial agenda. From the point of view of the appreciation that you have made of whether we are minorities or not, I have tried to distinguish, precisely, that I think it is not right to approach the situation of the català, in concrete terms, as that of a country that has a minority language. It is false; neither for geographic reasons, nor for legal reasons, etc. What do you mean, "minority"? It's obvious – it's obvious – that minority attempts, yes, but that we're following a minority language I think it's bluntly false. I don't know if we've understood each other or if we haven't understood each other. [[Pause.]] We didn't get it. So, if we haven't gotten along, let him be. In any case, with regard to concrete aspects, I would not have wanted to have fallen... obviously not into victimism; nor in triumphalism. We've got some low point, still, some Aquil·les heel, and the Department of Justice, or everything you have to see from the point of view of the tongue to the jutjats is a low point. That we only have at these times in Catalonia a little more than 8 and a half percent of the sensations in Catalan identifies a problem. It is also true that, indeed, every time there are more lawsuits that are due to end in català. And it's also true that they rely on every judgment. And let's start to see how there are situations where, in fact, there are many judgments that take on the awareness that guaranteeing the right to language to each of its citizens, so it is a fact that distinguishes democracy from the quality point of view. You referred to questions that have to do with the presence of català in concerted schools, in private schools. I don't want to go in there. I think our points are so diametrically opposed that there is no way to find the least common denominator. His vision is an impromptu view of an advanced and modern country, and therefore I cannot share in any case..., enter into this discussion, which more than ever takes us away from the subject of language. In relation to cinema, tell him that the Government of Catalonia is very compromised with the doubling, still, of films aimed at a child and family audience, and above all with the subtitle of all the audiovisual products that at these times are aimed at adults; among other things, to respect also the own language of the various creations, of the various productions. It seems to us that we have the opportunity, effectively, now that we are determined to make a new and better – conjunctiva – country, that our fellow citizens also improve their abilities from the point of view of learning other languages. That in our audiovisual system, that in our television, that in access to fiction series, the Government of Catalonia favors subtitle – therefore, access in catalá – but also access to an original-language visualization, it seems to us that it is a virtue, that it is a value. In relation to the situation of literature, tell him that I engulf the Department of Culture, if in anything it will invest, it is in the promotion of the habitat of reading. And in this sense, you speak with the whole value chain, from the authors to the editors, to the distributors, to the translators linked to the world of the book and see how complicity with the Department of Culture is total. New lines of subsidisation are incorporated to promote translation. We are still today, you said, at the international fire of Bolonya as the country invited, with a whole sector of authors, translators, illustrators, enchanted with the work that is being done by the Government of Catalonia, because, effectively, the translations will multiply – and to the data we will mention –, and the presence and vitality of the publishing world, authorship, illustrators in relation to literature, and the Catalan language in concrete, is, I believe, therefore, frankly, positive. In any case, I insist, it is obvious that in a state-of-the-art situation, with state-of-the-art structures compromised with the promotion of diversity as a value and not as a problem, so things are still more serious. All the way, though, I'd run away from victimistic discourses, which are improbable to a modern, advanced society, and closer to the past century than 2017. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the current situation and prospects for the future of the Catalan economy]] [[300-00153/11]] The aim of the agenda is: to ask the Government about the current situation and prospects for the future of the Catalan economy; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Lord Oriol Amat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.22.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, Members, this is an inquiry into the current situation and prospects for the future of the Catalan economy. People, normally, once a year we do a medical review to see how healthy we are. Organisations, businesses, countries, regions must also do so, to see how they are of economic salvation, on many other issues, of course; but as we are talking about economics today, so we will make a brief review of how our economy is doing. When you evaluate the economy, what is important is to see, first of all, what is the ultimate objective of the economy. The economy has as its ultimate goal to generate the well-being that the people deserve to have a dignified life. This means occupation, income, welfare; this is the ultimate goal of the economy. To see how we are the ultimate goal of the economy, one of the key parameters is activity. Economic activity..., if we take the data from 2016, GDP has increased by 3.5_percent. It is a very important growth; more than Spain, more than the European Union. Economic activity, therefore, has been very good; it has been a few years now that it has been very good, economic activity. Why is economic activity good? So, because there are a whole series of dimensions that are producing very good results. For example, exports grow without stopping, they grow more than the rest of Spain, and, above all, they are exports, many of them, of quality. We're talking about high value exports added, like auto, team benefits. The second Spanish region..., the first Spanish export region is Catalonia ; the second exports less than half of Catalonia. Therefore, in exporting the results are very good. They are very good, too, the results of diversification of export. It is an export of infinity of sectors, as I said, of added value, and it is exports that, moreover, allow us to basically focus mainly on export outside, on international markets. The year 95, Catalonia exported 65_percent of its exports to Spain and 35_percent to foreign countries. At the moment, it's the other way around; it's like, it's an export that's been very internationalized and, therefore, it's a favorable data. Foreign investment data, so all very good too. In the later years... if we compare the increase in foreign investment in the later five years, compared to the previous five years, then it is a very important growth. Clearly, foreign investment trusts Catalonia. We have a very diversified economy; this is a very important feature. After tourism and construction, there are a whole range of sectors: automotive, pharmaceutical, publishing, agri-food, etc.; this is very important. The sectors that are growing the most are, above all, sectors of added value. Here's a little bit of a parenthesis: we have to go with it because it's starting to grow a lot, and that means that if we follow this, then in a while we'll have another speculative cylinder with all the negative consequences that this has. I'm in parentheses. The more data they explain the increase in activity would be the increase in the number of enterprises. There is one who is concerned: "There are some companies that have gone away. What matters is how many there were at the beginning of the year, how many have been created, how many have come, how many have gone and how many are left at the end. And Catalonia is, of all Spain, the region that increases the most in number of entrepreneurs. In the end, all this is reflected in one of the objectives the economy has: to generate occupation. We are reduced to a much more important rhythm than the rest of Spain, with much more intensity. The weather is currently around 14_per_cent. This 14_per_cent, obviously, is a lot, but if we do a little memory and don't go to the year 2014 we have a 22. From a 22_per_cent of till we've moved to a 14. If we talk about other effects that this increase in activity has, then we have, in monetary matters, that much better access to credit, there are low types of interest, and all this has consequences, too, in the finances of the Generality. There's been a lot of deficit reduction. We had a deficit, a year ago, of 5,879_million. In 2015, 5,879_millions; in 2016, the deficit stood at 1,968. So, we've gone from a deficit on GDP from 2.88 to 0.93. This is important data. The deadline for payment to suppliers has greatly improved. We spent, in one year, from sixty-seven days to twenty-eight days. Yesterday, the economic vice president said so himself, who is no longer talking about the subject of morosity. Still, there are important reps pending. The weather is still high, the salaries of many workers, which, we say, is one of the objectives of the economy..., the salaries of many workers are still low. That is why we in this Parliament have approved that the minimum wage, like the minimum wage, should be EUR 1 000. Pensions are at risk. If you look at the data of the last twenty years of the total of Espanya there are missing 100,000_million euros. It is not what happens in Catalonia; in the last twenty years Catalonia has had 25,000_million euros left. But we are in the Spanish pension system, and in the last 20 years there have been 100,000_million euros missing and the deficit is growing. Therefore, we have an important problem. Well, above all, I wanted to ask a question, in this first part, to the economic vice president..., and then I want to make another consideration, but the question is serious: taking into account the good evolution of most data..., some data like the weather is still not good at all, but there are most data that are very positive. The question is, what does the government predict with regard to the future evolution? I mean, so far the data is very good; what's the government's prediction for the next year, for the next two or three years? But before I finished this first part of the intervention, I wanted to talk about another issue, which is catastrophe. For many years, if you take the economic pressure or take the interventions especially of two groups of this Parliament, every year, then: "What will happen to the economy the year you see? So the economy will go downhill; GDP will grow less than the rest of the Spanish regions, or autonomous Spanish communities; businesses will go downhill; businesses will not come downhill. And that's what they say, for example, in 2014. Big headlines on the press. And then came the data from the end of 2014, which turned out that Catalonia was the region that had grown the most. We returned in 2015 and, again, the same parliamentary groups and the press, especially the economics of Madrid, that said: "So, 2015 the economy will go down; the companies will go down; the GDP will grow less than the rest of Spain. And when the real data for 2015 came, it was exactly the opposite: the more companies came, the more foreign investment came, and the more GDP grew. When we arrived in 2016, the same thing happened again; the same media, the same parliamentary groups scaring the people: « That GDP will fall; the region will be the least growing; the businesses will go away. And it turns out that the evidence of reality, therefore, proved exactly the opposite. Here he wanted to highlight a qualitative change that can be seen in most economic media with him in Madrid, which has already changed the speech two or three months ago: they have recognized that foreign investment is increasing, they have acknowledged that Catalonia is the region that is growing the most. And so they've changed the speech, now they're giving other explanations. They no longer say that the process is for; but, in change, in many commissions and there are still some Members who still deny the evidence. Catalanophobia, which perhaps someone has, has become a small variety of this disease. When we have earaches we have otitis; when we have problems with bronchi is bronchitis, and it seems that there is someone who has "processed," right? [[some applause]] The process generates a small malaise. That this sickness I see that creates difficulty in realizing reality. The reality is that the economy has been better, that businesses are coming, that foreign investment trusts us; but this process prevents them from realizing this reality. This processitis can be a consequence of or do not have the data – there is a problem of lack of documentation – or that they do not interpret them properly, or that they deceive them. Any of the three explanations are negative. To conclude, just to say, as a summary of this first part of the intervention, that the Catalan economy, until today, is evolving in a very favorable way; it is internationalized. The world, the businesses that come here, the thousands of people who are in Catalonia from the rest of Europe or the rest of the world, trust this country and its future. What happens is that, in some cases, when someone threatens to leave, they remember that the threats are due to the lack of Mediterranean Corridor, among other issues, or to the cost of energy. Before, in a previous intervention, in a previous inquiry, it was said that we bet..., there is a group that said that it bet for the Mediterranean Corridor. I believe that the Catalan Parliament bets on the Mediterranean Corridor, but when will it vote the assumptions in Madrid bet on another corridor, which is « Madridterrani, eh? [[some applause]] In the words of Congressman Germà Bel, eh? In short, even if I have a state against – to this I will refer more later, on the second hand – the business dynamism and that of Catalans – of businesses, organizations – and the work of the Government, explain the good march that the Catalan economy is having. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.23.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Amat. Next, the words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.24.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs... Mr. Amat, I'm trying to start the answer to the question about the prospects for the future by also taking a break from some of the data from the most recent past, from the present, from the expectations that we have at these times about the most immediate future. I'm trying to draw a perspective on the future a little longer. A little, in the line that you proposed, it seems to me that it is worth remembering, for example, that we closed the year 2016 with a gross domestic product that exceeds 223,000_millions, which goes down to 224,000_millions of euros. Is that a bit much? One way to compare it is to remember that this is the first time we have exceeded the GDP we had in the pre-crisis period. The previous record of Catalonia's gross domestic product had been produced in 2008, just before the crisis erupted in its fullness, and had been almost 217,000_million euros. Therefore, we are almost 7,000_million over the previous record. I think it's a way of hearing the good behavior our economy is having, at least in these macroeconomic terms. A _second given that we like to explain, because it seems to us that it is very relevant, is that, if the growth forecast is complete by the year 2017, it is a forecast that at these times it is located in 2.7_per_cent, but that it seems that it could be revised upwards, since the advance data we have not only ourselves, but, for example, the advance data from the Airef, the Independent Fiscal Responsibility Authority, which places the growth forecast for the first and second quarter of 2017 in almost 0.8 and 0.8 another time, let us say, for each of these quarters, that we could end – if the forecast is complete, and can still better forecast it – around the 234,000 previous years; Another way to explain this is that during the most complicated years of the crisis, Catalonia's GDP had been around 200,000_millions– 200,000_millions. Now we can finish this year at 234,000_million. It's an increase of a seven-part of our entire economy and it's a growth achieved in just three years– three years. Therefore, a very substantial growth. Another way of seeing this growth and grasping its magnitude is, for example, to focus on one of the elements that is usually considered to be key to hearing the salvation of an economy, which is what industry has in this economy. In the case of Catalonia, we closed 2016 with a pes of industry, with a pes of the industrial sector on the conjunction of the economy that exceeds 19_per_cent. It's uplifting because we come from clearly lower figures. 2009 – before, or just when the crisis began – we were in 17,4_per_cent; therefore, we are clearly above in the industrial world on the conjunction of the economy that we had had in the pre-crisis period. But it's also very high compared to European data. In fact, we are very much above the EU average; we are also very much above the euro area average; we are very clearly above the Spanish average. Therefore, this industrial sector, and this industrial sector, on the whole of the economy, so, it also gives us..., it is a good indicator, it gives us good expectations about the future behavior of our economy in the proper years. Three-quarters of the same could say about, for example, the creation of mercantile companies in 2016, where we have located ourselves twice as much as in the middle of the state, and practically twice as much, in the creation of mercantile companies, as the middle of the euro area. So it's really a growth, from this perspective, rising. Then, there are other limitations, which we will try to enter in a moment, but from this perspective, it is a very significant growth. For what it does to the occupation, 2016 we have had a net creation of occupation that has increased by 3.4_per_cent compared to the previous year, according to the Active Population Survey; therefore, a very clear indicator on the good behavior of the occupation, at least in these terms. Even better for what it does to the affiliation of social security, with an increase of 3.7_per_cent. And, effectively, the rate of atturation has dropped below 15_per_cent, which wasn't produced from many and many years ago, and, as you remembered a while ago, we came from 22_per_cent. Therefore, from this perspective, many good expectations also face the future. In part, this good behavior of the economy is translated into a better public finances and, therefore, the finances of the public sector, which is to a large extent – not exclusively, but to a large extent – the sector responsible for transferring the positive effects of economic growth to society and, therefore, being an element that guarantees the correct, fair redistribution of income, that guarantees basic social services, that guarantees equal opportunities, that guarantees social justice, etcetera. This..., to us it seems that it is good to remember it – that the Government of Catalonia also has an influence on the financial health, for example, of local administration, because badly for many years the Government of Catalonia, the fruit of a reality that we all know so well – and that, therefore, we should not insist on it – had become a great debtor in respect of local administrations, respect the municipality, respect the joint actions. Fortunately, this was corrected very intensively in 2016, allowing for a lot of resources not only to increase the assumption of the Generalitat de Catalunya, with this increase of 1,355_million euros more destined for social policies, mainly teaching, salvation, etc.; not only this part, but all the part, said, which is derived from these transfers from the Generalitat de Catalunya to the municipality and which also equips the municipalities with a greater capacity at the time to solve the social needs of its citizens. Because the gatherings here have a lot – a lot – uplifting and they have taken it with a lot of courage and with a lot of firmness, beyond the responsibilities that surround them during the years of the crisis, but also, for example, the impulses of economic activity, etcetera, from the world of the gatherings. I think it is right to have this global perspective on the finances of the Generalitat de Catalunya and also on the impact of the Generalitat de Catalunya on these finances of the municipal world. Also, in this sense, it seems to me that it is very useful to remember that the good behavior, the good attitude of the Government of Catalonia respect the joint ventures also occurred respect to the entities of the third sector, it occurred respect to the supplier, the substantial decrease less than half the waiting time of the suppliers at the time of collection. Therefore, this injects resources into the production system, and above all it injects them into those entities of the third sector that play a role at the time of providing services to the most needy people in our country. I explain this, because sometimes they are given less attention, for many different reasons, which seem more invisible and therefore I think it is very good to remember. The limitations are many, but – and it seems to me that they are well known – two very obvious and that they help us to hear very well the limitations before which we find ourselves. One is that the citizens of Catalonia, in per capita terms, are the third most important in the whole of the Spanish State, and, in change, in terms of comparative purchasing capacity, they are the fourteen in terms of the resources of the Spanish State; that is, in the distribution of public resources we are the third most important in terms per capita and we are the fourteen in the time of the month. It is obvious that this causes a monstrous distortion in the distribution of income, in the distribution of spending capacity. And the other element is that we're not just the third ones that we bring and the fourteen at the time of rebre, but at the time of rebre we don't get what we'd be close to, but in many cases we get two years and seven months later. And this distortion adds enormous problems to our willingness to face many of the economic challenges, infrastructure, economic growth, social justice and equal opportunities, which, even so, all these difficulties, we resolve and work to solve, as you know, definitively. Many thanks in this first intervention. I'm sure we'll be able to complete a little bit later, depending on what you asked, the expectations we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.25.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's a word from Mr. Amat.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.26.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, as the Vice-President now pointed out, more than seeing the good March, the best of the economy, also saw the good prospects for the future. Then, from these two findings, the good going so far and the good prospects there are for the next few years, two considerations. One is: how can it be that, like the industrial markets, the commercial markets, the service markets, investors trust in Catalonia..., but, in change, the financial markets, Catalonia have closed them, eh? A second consideration is also: if we go so well, we get better, etc., how can it be that in social issues – before I mentioned a little –..., for example, when we talk about the index of social progress that the European Union calculates, eh? As with Catalonia, at world level, it is a country that would be in the twenty-i-four, twenty-i-five, twenty-i-sis, of two hundred countries, as far as wealth generated per capita– or still, one of the richest countries in the world– ; in change, when we speak of social progress, which takes into account, therefore, sanitation, teaching, social spending, etc., Catalonia, for example, at the level of the European Union, is an intermediate region; of almost three hundred regions, we are more or less in the middle, eh? Therefore, the uncertainty that arises before this good evolution and good prospects is: why do the markets finance them as we have them, and, second, the issue of social progress. Well, about that I wanted to refer to a point, which is the topic of ratings. Catalonia has a very bad rating, which does not allow it to access the market. But if we take the studies that have been published in recent years..., I will now refer to the last one, written by Joan Maria Mateu and Joan Elias, former Director of the Study Service of CaixaBank, who says: "If Catalonia has full access to the tax collection it generates, or if it was independent – that would be the other way to be in this situation–, " Catalonia would have an AA rating. That's a letter we haven't seen in years. AA rating is an inversion rating, it's a better rating than that of the Basque Country and that of Navarre, and much better still, still more, than that of the Spanish State, because the Basque Country and Navarre have better ratings than the Spanish State. In this study – and in all the studies that have been done on the rating that Catalonia would have if you had the resources that it generates – it is explained why it would have such a good rating if you did not have the fiscal deficit that you have. Very simple: for the ability to collect taxes. It's been said many times in this House, huh? So, Catalonia collects the 19, 20_percent of all the tributes that are taken back to Spain, but at the hour of public spending, so, we get the 11_per_cent. And we're living in social security, we're getting 11_per_cent. Rewem, middle of many years, the 11_percent of the inversion. And that's a very clear explanation why a great tax capacity at the end, so it generates little welfare for the people. The vice president referred to talking about this number 3 at the time of bringing and number 14 at the time of rebre, huh? Other studies also say that when they do this type of analysis, what is to be done is to remove what is the region where the capital of the State is; to remove it, because there are distortions. And, in fact, to countries like Austria and others, so, when they do this type of analysis, they take what is the region where the capital of the State is. If we did that, Catalonia would be the second in time to bring in and then we would be the thirteen or fourteen in time. Well, these ratings studies I'm telling you, what they're saying is: Catalonia would have a lot of good ratings if you managed their taxes, because it has an absorbable debt level, a very diversified, very internationalized economy. All the international studies that have taken place on Catalonia in the past years..., I remember, for example, the report of R & D..., of IMD – sorry – which says that Catalonia has the most valued economy in the Mediterranean. The Financial Times study, the IDF, says that Catalonia is the region with the best prospects for investing in Europe in its own years. Therefore, trust in Catalonia's future is very good. All the studies that have been done on the independence of Catalonia – all of them – except 2 or 3 per cent of all the studies that have been done, what they say is that Catalonia, if it manages its resources, is not only viable, but would generate much more benefit. And that's all the Nobel Prizes – in the past few days, how many Nobel Prizes have been shown about the Catalan economy – all of them, huh? The Deutsche Bank said so, and so on. Well, for all that, just to see that the people, the businesses, the fabric of production, are doing very well – I can congratulate them – but also the governance of the different departments also helps. There's someone who thinks the government doesn't affect the economy. It affects a lot. Agafin Veneçuela, a country that was among the richest in the world a few decades ago and is now among the poorest in the world. The agafin Finland, which was one of the poorest regions of the world, when it was in the Soviet Union; when it went away, in many years it became one of the richest countries in the world. Finally, just another question to the vice president. Taking into account that everything has evolved so positively and the prospects are so good, why is Catalonia still holding closed finance markets? What does the government plan to do to improve the perception that the financial markets have in Catalonia? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.27.0	Thank you, Mr. Amat. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.28.0	Well; many thanks, another time. Indeed, the data we provided, and I insist that... in fact, it is a reminder, because it is well known: we are third parties in the per capita contribution of the fiscal effort, we are fourteen at the time of this return from this fiscal effort. If we eliminate the distortion derived from the effect of capitality – it is to say, the fact that many companies have their own social base, and therefore pay their taxes or the tax of companies in concrete terms to Madrid, but in change they develop their activity in many other places, such as Catalonia – therefore, we will the following to provide, we will the fourteen in rebre. That means we're between the two who bring the most, we're between the four who get the least, let's just say. This distortion affects our entire society, etc. Despite this, we are able to respond, with great effort, in the form of a premise of the Government of Catalonia, with these 1,355 million destined for social policies of more, with the response also to all the needs of the conjunction of the entities of the third sector, of the assemblies, etc. Here it is very important to remember that any non-funded deficit is converted into unpaid bills. And, therefore, any deficit does not finance condemns the alleged beneficiaries to not be remunerated, and therefore to have to bring them, but not to be compensated. And we know that this has caused terrible harm to many of the entities in the third sector of these countries, to many suppliers of this country, etc. In fact, if we took it from ourselves, we would have wanted to make a little more of a deficit, because we would have had the way to finance it, that we do not have it now, whenever a little more of a deficit also helps, for example, a little more of an economic growth. Because here the two factors must always be analyzed together, as an inextricable binomial. If we assume a little more deficit, but this allows us to grow even higher, I mean we have more economic muscles, more fiscal muscles to support public services; to support hospitals, primary care centers, schools, universities, etc. Therefore, we want to be able to grow a little more and have a little more margin than the Spanish State clearly imposes on us unjustly, as we have also remembered on many occasions. Since we took responsibility for the Economics and History Board, in fact, we have explained to the rating agencies – I believe that this is now a shared truth not only for us, but for all the agencies – that it is obvious that when the salvation of the Catalan economy and the salvation of the public finances of the Government of Catalonia is analyzed, it is inevitable, it is absolutely correct, essential, to take into account this tremendous distortion that is produced by the action of the Spanish Government. I insist: we are the second they bring the most, we are the fourteen at the time of rebre. Therefore, the rating agencies say: "You have an economy that is very good. You have an economic management that is very suitable to boost this growth that is the one that generates the tax resources to then be able to revert them to public services, to be able to reverse them in favor of schools and hospitals. But at the same time, of course, we, like the rating agency, what we have to assess is how many resources you have. And how that you don't have the resources, despite the fact that the tennel society generates them, despite the fact that the Catalan economy generates them, despite the foreign investment that goes up, despite the investment of our own country, despite the creation of entrepreneurs, despite the growth of industrial activity... All this is absolutely true; we see, we see it every day, we have it before our eyes. But at the same time, of course, we cannot assess them for the good behaviour of the Catalan economy; we must assess them for the actual resources they have. And as the resources they have are so small – obviously, so unfairly small, because we are the second to bring in and the fourteen in rebre –, "of course, we put the note in function of these resources that they have, not of the conjunction of the Catalan economy. Because if we have to put it in the Catalan economy together, as Catalan GDP grows much more than the rate of deficit, what we should do is evaluate them extraordinarily positively, because that doesn't really happen. That is to say, instead we would find such a marked difference between the rate of the deficit and the rate of the gross domestic product, which is what, in the end, shows the ability we have to face the present deficits and the future global debt. So, what do we have to do? To continue working in this direction and, above all, to ensure that we have the pool of these economic resources generated by our society, which generate our businesses, our workers, to the service of this society, which is, and has always been, the object of many of us. I believe that it is now a mostly shared objective for our society, and that, in any case, it will be a benefit for our entire society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.29.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Asking the Government about the management of waste]] [[300-00152/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the management of waste; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, she has the word "Mrs. Hortênsia Grau".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.30.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, director of the Catalan agency of residues – Mr Tost –, deputies, deputies, well, today we have an inquiry of residues. Government _Messages and a topic that for us is fit and, in change, not... We have addressed many issues of his department, but this one is not. And we think we have to deal with it, because you know, counselor, that the data we've known is not good. We don't say that, we've all seen it published in The Vanguard, in The Newspaper. We have some painful data; some demolishing data for what it does to recycling. We've got the recycling data locked. These six years haven't been good; these six years... You're wearing _months, the Catalan agency of residues – the director – is wearing six years, and we must say no..., your management can't say that you have a very favorable balance. It can be explained, as tried, how Mr. Tost made statements, for the economic crisis. But we believe that the economic crisis, which is true to be seen, does not explain it; it explains that there are fewer residues of certain products, but not the fact that it has been recycled less. In fact, the organic data, which in this case for us is a priority fraction, are very worrying, because there is a strong drop, and more if we take into account that the organic today is already back to 774 of the 948 municipalities of Catalonia. They lower other fractions, too, huh? : Paper, cartro; that already know that there are robbing, but that also for other circuits arrive. We have the issue of static packaging. There's been a drop... there's been a drop in the presupposition, these years, very strong. That's right, this year I can say, "Ostres, this year we tried to fix it in the presupposition. Yes, this year, for the first time it has increased well, considerably, the presupposition, but precisely in the plan that they approved, there is a large part of this presupposition that goes to the finalist treatment, at the end of the canonada; that is, incinerators of Tarragona and Girona expand. And beyond the speeches, that fans and fans take..., you fans and fans do well – I think they believe they do, back in the circular economy and prevention at the beginning – but after these speeches are not reflected in real policies. The law of follow-up has been given the subject of the gratuity of the plastic market in all trades, but we consider that it is little ambition when, moreover, in other places in Europe – for example, France – it is no longer forbidden, it is not given. And you know they've banned the big one here, but the little one might donate it. We haven't done anything about overpacking, eco-dispensing, etc. The increase in the canon. I understand that the canon had to be increased, but, of course, as we did not approve assumptions last year, we made the increase of two years in one year, and, moreover, without accompanying measures and without the investments that were associated with this canon in the municipalities. Information and awareness campaigns: the warmest is in the water. We don't have... little; this year we did one. We don't have much. Well, just look at the agency's web page. On the organic fraction, the last one stuck there is in 2009, and the last campaign in 2010. And above all, well, the campaigns don't... after I talk about it, when we talk about the deposit system, the return of packaging, the campaign that was made with Ecoembes, which, moreover, we think was still harmful. The two plans approved, both the prevention plan, the Precat, as well as the infrastructure plan, the Pinfrecat..., we believe that it did not take advantage of to give it the turn of the model, did not collect the attachments of the Catalan Strategic Forum Residu Zero, and it did not take advantage of the renewal of the agreement with the big ones to pack, with Ecoembes and Ecovidrio, precisely to change the system and begin to introduce the topic of expanded responsibility to the producer; that is, that the packers are responsible for the cost of the management and that vagina internalizing these costs, which would allow all and all of us to stop paying these costs. Therefore, this is why we believe that we need to develop a new management system that makes the containers and distributors responsible for these costs. They think it's necessary to make self-criticism. Miri, the Barcelona City Council did it, the metropolitan area did it; because it has to do it. Because, in addition, the metropolitan area is where the data collected from the organic, for example, went worse; they are laying the batteries with a new plan. We have an approved resolution of the general policy debate, on the line – the good concept, right? – the circular economy, to consider overcoming the issue of recycling society to talk about an efficient society in the use of waste. So, three questions that then, too, with the next motion, we'll try to make, right? There is a new Catalan law on waste prevention and resource efficiency. We need to change the model. This model 'nsha's stuck. This model has served for a few years, but now we have to change it. We need to modify this model and we need to go with certain questions; that, in addition, we have experiences, and it seems that we have as a tap – we don't know if the tap poses Ecoembes and Ecovidrio –; for example, the deposit system, return and return of packaging. For what it does to the first point, to the Catalan Law of residue prevention. We need a new law. Why? Because we have a strict waste directive that obliges us, and we believe that the current law, the text, is old. You can make changes, but we need to change all this body. It's true that the state law – the state law 22/2011–, well, it was a little bit more there, but we thought we could get over it, we could get over this mark. Besides, we need this law, because if we don't, we don't get to the goal of recycling 50 percent of municipal organic waste by 2020, and because, besides, this law is where we can actually apply the circular economy issue; it's, like, going against this model of linear economy, what it does is extremity, use and then start and incinerate, right? , for a model that you really do is to reintroduce the residue as a resource into the system and with all the benefits that this has for the environment. And that, besides, I think that this is already a needy. Because we're seeing it, right? We are dealing at the same time with the Climate Change Law, which, moreover, is a law that we want to be ambitious, that we want to be a reference to Europe. And, therefore, there are two questions that can't go... that need to be coordinated, right? Just like they say we have to do, don't we? We make the energy transition plan and you also have to see it with climate change, so with the residue as well. We must overcome, therefore... with this new law, we must overcome Precat. Precat cannot continue with these voluntary agreements. I know that you like them very much, this is about voluntary agreements, and it's one of the points of debate that we have on the Climate Change Law, but unfortunately we have to go beyond voluntary agreements, because, therefore, capitalism is very saving. And here, so, normally, the industries have to do benefits, and just with the willing, miri, we don't think there's enough. The story, unfortunately, so shows us, that only with willfulness and good intentions is hell not full. Therefore, we must go further, to the systems more..., than chastity, bonifiquin, premium, etcetera; therefore, overcome this law. And, besides, this law has to put the emphasis on the producer's expanded responsibility, because it is in origin that we have to prevent, it is who makes the product, who puts it on the market. And this law also has to deal with the whole subject of, for example, residues that are not now entering..., are not entering the circuits, like..., or the great producers, like furniture, windshields, graphic paper. In this sense, we support the strategy of the Residu Zero model. Now I remember, just a year ago – April 2016; I see that there are all the spokespersons of the Medi Ambient Commission here – we were able to meet here with the Catalan Strategy Residu Zero, with Ecologists of Catalonia, with some mayors and directors of assemblies, like Celrà, like Papiol, who are doing a lot of good work and are with this new model. Therefore, read and change the model. And change the model into two questions. Which is the separation: let's question the five-dipose model because we think it embolizes the population, that it ends up amassing a lot of remaining fraction, that it doesn't prioritize the organic fraction, because..., it's a complex message, to separate, complicates the citizenry. Because there are no formulas to know, to be able to sneeze... with this open mouthpiece, with this open mouthpiece, they can't know what's going on. And so what it does is that there's a big fraction left – the deep deposit is good for Ecoembes – and everything we say, the MIR fraction, isn't it? The whole inorganic isn't going back well. Therefore, we went to a system of four. Also, for what it does to the collection system we believe we have to go forward; in every territory in a way, huh? : There are places that can be done door to door, there are places that can be done with closed contents that identify. But we need this identification. Why? Because it's the way to, then, be able to also make policies of paying in consonance with this gathering, and of conscious citizenship; in this way more consciousness. Therefore, to change the model as much in selection as in collection, to go implanting the door to door, to go implanting the contents with identification. Miri, there is just one study of the agency that recognizes it, from 2013, that in door-to-door systems is selected more [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I'm done, president – it's more recycling and, besides, it's redoubling the inhabitant/day. Then I'll continue the topic, because it gives for a lot and I don't think there's enough with two minutes. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.31.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.32.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Grau, also greet the Director of the Agency for Residues of Catalonia. The first is to thank him for this opportunity, to thank him for this inquiry, because he will allow us to talk about it today. In thirty minutes..., it's a topic of extraordinary complexity; it's a time, let's say, insufficient. But they know that I am always ready to appear in the Environment Committee so that I can deal more with these issues. We did it with biodiversity. Now I'm also offering to do it... either myself or the same director of the Residus Agency, so I can talk to him on the phone. So thank you. We'll also have the opportunity to talk about it in the next room. There are points of agreement and points of discrepancy. You have had a disturbing beginning, if you will, with much cordiality. He began to say: "You have only been a year, counselor, but the director of the Agency of Residues himself. Yes, but I could also reply: "So, your political party, Initiative for Catalonia Verds, now integrated into Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, in fact it was the one that governed the environment from the year 2003 to the year 2010. So, if we're going to look back, so, man..., you suggested this exercise; so, I'm going to take this exercise, starting from the base that we agree on in the structuring elements. And make a warning, before entering that period of which, let us say, we must not reverse, we must not reverse some of the elements that were not well oriented. What's the point, the consensus we have? That's the clear, unequivocal, roundabout bet for the circular economy. And the circular economy goes further than the system of selective collection of municipal waste. From our perspective, the circular economy is a paradigm shift; I mean, let's move from a model of linear economy, in which they generate residues, to a model that tanks the cycle basically renouncing the concept of residues and incorporating the concept of resources. But above all the circular economy means innovation, technology and a strong industrial base. This is the circular economy with all the consequences. And we bet on it. And, therefore, it goes beyond what we can strictly manage from the Agency of Residus, which is one of the expressions of the circular economy. But the circular economy must have a much more transversal character in the government's conjunction. And that's why we're working together with the Department of Enterprise, which means universities, which means research, which means industrial base, which means ecodisseny, which means having an economic sector produced, not from recoverers, but, let's say, from managing to fund, let's say, of the limited resources that we have today. This is the circular economy with roundness. And, therefore, this is a debate in which they will always find us, and a very structured basic debate. Maybe it's one of the most serious strategic stakes our country can make. And he went further, I insist, to ask for collaboration with the citizen to make better selective collection. The selective economy is a small part of the circular economy. But, I insist, circular economy means technological innovation and a strong, strong industrial base. That's a circular economy. And we go back, and we're in the area of the Residue Agency. You said: "I will not judge him for this last year, but for the last six years. So, you'll also allow me to judge what that stage was. Miri, at the beginning of 2000, we, like Parliament, have done one of the most solid things we have done in the field of waste management, which is to emmirate us in the most advanced, most modern countries and incorporate the waste channel – the waste channel, which, basically, to socialize it, is the channel that engraves the final disposition – and, therefore, to say: "We are discouraging, in economic terms, the disposition, is already controlled or is already through the incineration of waste, which does not contemplate energy value. Home, in the middle of the economic boom, the residue canon, since the year..., since we created it until the year 2010 was stuck in less than two euros a ton, and, therefore, we did not get the resources we had to get. And we did not manage to incorporate the deterrence that this canon should have, which means, "If you do not make the right efforts," and it was a message of cooperation with the local world, "you, when you are not able to recover selectively, to recycle and bring it to the abboteur, in the controlled regime, will be punished, in these terms. And with the resources that are obtained from the recap of the canon, all policies of prevention and minimization are done; this is the strong idea. Therefore, during that time of economic goodness we were stuck to God. What is the most powerful thing – and I use this adjective – that the Government of Catalonia has done in these last few years, and so has it, and that we have done together with this Parliament, as well as the political forces that voted in favour of the accompanying law, which is agreed with the local administration, with the Federation of Municipalities and the ACM? Substantially increase the canon by arrangement. What did we approve of the year 2017 Accompanying Law? We're talking 30 euros a ton. The year 2018? Thirty-five euros a ton. Year 2019? Forty-one euros a ton. The year 2020? Forty-seven euros a ton. This is, perhaps, the most powerful element, the most transformative of what we are planting. When he played to do it, he didn't do it. They decided to make other plans, and plans, from our perspective, mistakes. Now you were talking to me about whether we need to serve four contents or we need to serve five. But one of the strategic errors, too, from our perspective, was the bet at the level of infrastructures, especially biologic mechanical treatment plants, fractionally remaining and in controlled situations. At the Hostalets de Pierola, the Eco 4 of the Hostalets de Pierola or the CTR de Vacarisses arrived half of the expected residues – half. And what did we have to do? This led to an economic imbalance in contracts. Operators were calling for an increase in tariffs from EUR 80 per ton to EUR 100 per ton. Therefore, it was more necessary to go to these plants than not to go directly to the controlled diposit. And, therefore, this conditioned us in a very substantial way. How are we reversing the situation? So, in these terms: increasing the deposit canon, putting the incineration canon with the controlled deposit canon at the same level, also incorporating the industrial residue canon. This is not the time of economic goodness, it is the time of economic crisis, so that in the industrial sphere we are recovering 80_percent of the residue; but let's go further, we incorporate this new element. And it's true, the moment we've been able to deploy the full potential to collect the organic fraction, so we've stayed, let's say, stuck. I myself, as counsel, have made various public appearances in this sense of self-criticism, to say: "We cannot be stuck to the 39_per_cent of selective collection; we cannot be, we must take a step forward. And that's why, okay with making the new law, okay with Precat. And the Precaution is to overcome sectoral plans and go to a global plan. And from here we have to incorporate mechanisms. And you've advanced some of them. First element, door-to-door collection has proven to be very effective and very effective, in the sense that it allows us to recover levels that are high. Those comarques that partially or totally have this mechanism overcome, let's say, the colliding in some..., over 50_per_cent. And, therefore, this is a good line that we need to be able to work together. We're betting on it. Second, there was a forum in Girona where we were able to analyze various experiences of successes of other cities, that is true. We have to go to a mechanism that overcomes anonymity in the management, let's say, of selective collection. And, therefore, we want to go this way. And the third element, with the deposit system, returns and returns. We've made a report, we've asked for a report, and already the progress we've made last week; now we're starting to analyze the data. And here can't be an ideological option, if I may. There have been other territories in the Spanish State that say: "Ideolologically we understand that this is the best system. What we want is the mechanism that is more transformative, more effective, more efficient and that allows us to connect better with people. This is a first basis for what you were proposing to me; obviously, on the next occasion of the inquiry, you will continue to give him the right answers. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.33.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Grau."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, that I'm talking about these last six years – because it's true, we've been in six years since..., since 2011; that more coincides with when recycling data went badly – and that you're going to pass me another time the tripartite, that it's been a while since I felt it, and our responsibilities, I don't know, I don't think it's touching. And there's another question, Counselor – you've focused on the canon, but you've obvious some important issues – and it's that the big change, the big change – but I'm not saying, La Vanguard, the data is public – recycling – recycling paper, organic waste, glass, packaging – is back in those years; at the top of the page, 2010, which is when more is recycled. The theme of plants or ecoparks. Ecoparks were self-critical, there's a part that didn't work. But it is certain that we need triatge plants that are decentralized, and not large plants. So, this, I don't know, doesn't sound good. And then, always, I don't know why, when there's a different pattern, you tell me it's ideological. Well, I'm sure it's all ideological. Clearly, yes, you must be ideological, because for us it is ideological that, if we go with a model that puts the emphasis on who produces these residues is what I end up paying, so I don't know, yes, you must be ideological. But, I mean, whenever there's something that doesn't match, they tell us it's ideological. Look, and some questions: I, the theme of the deposition, return and return..., I say it simply because with his predecessor, with Councilman Vila, he started an experiment. I think it was a very profitable experience. In fact, we went to visit her various deputies and deputies from here to Cadaqués; then we went to Stuttgart, to see the model, which, moreover, worked very well and generated jobs. I don't know..., you have a report that theoretically..., long ago they had to keep it; well, since November, they've been in charge of two consultancies. Now you say they already have him. Maybe we won't need it, but surely there's a part of the packaging that we can collect in this way. But, of course, this is supposed to be faced, so, with Ecopackages Spain, and this is difficult, and more when a deal has been closed with the characteristics that have been closed, that they have closed it a short time ago. Therefore, we believe that we can study it without ideological bias, or so, the issue of implementing SDDR. And maybe not at all, but maybe it can be implanted in certain areas for certain types of packaging. Listen, you think Pimec is okay with it, the joints are okay with it, ARC is okay with it, the recovery team is okay with it. Who doesn't agree with that? Well, because the law of the state... oh! But we don't have to be sovereigns and we have to disobey? Ah, but don't we have to have a model of our own? So, well, in these things, maybe it's worth it. So, I think that at least we can start trying. The door-to-door theme. On the door-to-door issue, I'm glad you tell me that, that we agree. We already know it can't be done. Ara Barcelona wants to start an experience, doing it in mosaic in some barrels. And then, on the question of incineration, the other issue that also concerns. He came out here, in Parliament, several times, for the themes of salvation. We believe..., it cannot be demagogic, it is obvious; it cannot be said: "Oh! , nothing to incinerate. No, no, Because with the system we currently have, which we generate more fractions, it may be realistic, and therefore we know that this needs... Just as we can't say: "Let's shut them down tomorrow, nuclear, which is what we would like, and ask for a shutdown schedule. On the issue of incinerators we have to go with a good work, prevention – prevention –, strategy of minimal residue, etcetera, and fix ourselves - there is a date: 2024, the two thousand twenty-i-escaig, to be able to lock them up. Because you know that – it is obvious that the CDR... – when they say: "No, it is not that we cremate, we revalue. But the CoR has no constant behavior, has problems: dioxins, furans, etc. Therefore, if we want to work for the environment as well as to change the model, we must go and think that there is no such incineration. Why? Because we're going to invest the numbers, because in accounts to recycle a 30 and send a 70, of final canonada, to incinerate or to start, we're going to do it the other way around. And like we're doing well, because we're all involved, and because we have to go to one, so it won't be hot. That's why the department, the agency, who's pushing, who's up ahead. And the dog is one thing, but it's not the only thing, counselor – the dog is one thing but it's not the only thing – we need more action. I, in this sense..., and we also need... there are questions of Precat, current, of the program, which I think would change. They didn't admit the papers that Residu Zero Strategy presented, and I think some of them were very uncertain. We, from our group, will work because, well, in our own room we can go a little further, and, if we can, then, with the maximum consent of all the groups in the chamber. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.35.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. I got the word Councilman Rull. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.36.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I insist exactly on the same: to go from a dean to fifty euros of a disposal canon is not a minor issue; I mean – I mean – to shake the structure together. But I just want to give you a given, which you in your intervention seemed to neglect: where there is the basis, in quantitative terms, it is in the organic matter, it is in the organic fraction: 8_per_cent, packaging; 40_per_cent, organic fraction. And you've explained to us all the proposals you make regarding packaging. We can agree, and that's why we've done this return system study, filed and returned – and that's why we did it. Now we're studying it on the ground. If it is implementable from a point of view of a reasonable cost for the joints, for the people, and it is effective as to a considerable increase in recovery, obviously we deploy it. When I was talking about "ideological issues... we have one thing very clear: ideologically we agree that we have to go with a circular economy objective. This is indeed a clear and blunt ideological option. I refer to ideologizing instruments, not objects. The objectives, of course, must be ideological, obviously they must be ideological. And the current government of Catalonia, in terms of the environment, is an ecologically based government, and it is a government that has the main objective of changing the paradigm. But when I said, "Let us not ideologize instruments, let us not say that one instrument, in itself, is better than the other. Look at him. We're studying it: get in there, and get in there on the ground. But the problem is that we have organic matter, organic fraction, that's the theme. I said: "The metropolitan area... In the metropolitan area we are very fair. Says: "The Barcelona Assembly and Mrs. Colau have made self-criticism. Yeah, well, it's pretty good that they do self-criticism, but beyond self-criticism we have to take a step further. What do we plant from the government of Catalonia? We want to do folds, we want to do it together. And that's why we're trying to donate all the instruments to make it possible. That's why we say: "With the disposal canon, 94_per_cent reverts to those locals that do things reasonably well, and this has an advantage for the people. In relation to the model change, we also need to look for people's complicity. Because every time we make a model change, we don't care... I said: "They have to deal with Ecoembes. No, no; don't be mistaken: we have to, and in this yes..., "for no, but he refuses to set up a model that doesn't follow for the people, that doesn't follow for the citizens. And, therefore, we need to give the best tools, the easiest instruments, the most convenient so that people's complicity is truly transformative. Who are the proposals we are putting on the table? We share them, and we share them perfectly: door to door, because it has been believed that it gives good results; content with clau; payment per generation. That's the issue, and that's the phone book: who pollutes the pay. Who minimizes, makes good prevention policies, who retreats selectively? Obviously, it must have, let us say, a return in the form of support and in the form of compensation in tax terms. This is the basic idea, and that's what we have an important recourse capability for. And at a later stage, we, the law, the new law of residue, are now beginning to elaborate it. It's a short term. This is a very structured law of the country, it's a law that has to be very effective over time. And that's why we've moved on to the law through Precat, which sets us up, let's just say, a change to model foundations. I've had a bit of a feeling – maybe I'm wrong and I'm very wrong – that you put a lot of emphasis on this question on the part, and a small part. Let's think big and make a layout of everything. It started with some terms that we share: circular economy. The first part of my first intervention was in these terms of circular economy, which went far beyond the selective collection and what the Agency of Residus does. And here's the dilemma: what kind of country do we want to be? What kind of country do we want to build? What kind of country do we want to leave our children? But we have a great advantage – and I finish, Madam President –: what do you know? , that the circular economy at these times is much more efficient, much more competitive, much more productive in the best sense of the terms than the linear economy, and that is why we will win this battle. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the degree of investment in infrastructure in Catalonia by the Spanish Government]] [[300-00154/11]] The dotze point of the order of the day is: it asked the Government about the degree of inversion in infrastructures to Catalonia of the Spanish Government, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Marc Sanglas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.38.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Secretary of Infrastructures, Members and Members, last week we had the visit of the President of the Spanish Government, in one of these visits that they used to make to make these announcements that later end in almost none, but that in any case summons, the President of the Government, five hundred entrepreneurs to the Palau de Congresses in Barcelona to make some announcements, theoretically to make some announcements about investments in the country. It announces an investment, an investment plan of 4,000_million between now and 2020 in railways, airports and roadcars, and also takes advantage of this space before these five hundred entrepreneurs to explain how badly it is that this country is in a democratic process with the will to vote. And he exposes them once more to this charged argument that they have that the Constitution is untouchable and that, therefore, from this point of view it cannot be absolutely true, and that the will of this country to vote democratically is not acceptable on its part. Once again, seek the excuse of an element that is necessary for us, which are the infrastructures, in order to try to condition the political positioning of the citizens of this country. This was a week ago, and unfortunately we're already used to the Spanish government promising, assuming and not executing a multitude of infrastructure. And that's a dilated element in time, and this time, so, with that unusual rush from the Spanish Administration, they haven't cheated on their own arguments for a week. This week we saw the Minister of Economics and then Foment explained what was the assumption of Foment for Catalonia giving, theoretically, a compliment to the mandate that had been ordered by the Spanish Government, or the President of the Spanish Government, a week ago. And the surprise – or no surprise, let's say we're still a little skeptical in these questions, when they're promised... That's to say, last week I'd say that the government has come out, and the country in general, is very skeptical about, let's say, these investments, and we find that the planned reversal for 2017 is less quantitatively than the planned reversal for 2016. And, therefore, from this point of view I would make myself the saying of that philosopher who said: "End of appointment. "End quote: I can't say anything more, it's all said. It seems to me that, Mr. Counselor, you have many questions and I would end up here, yes, and in any case I wouldn't give you..., because that's all there is to it. They come, they come to the colony, they promise us investments and then they don't execute them, because if we look at the degree of execution of the assumptions in investments in this country in the last few years, many are under the 80_per_cent execution. So – and then we'll get into another issue – let's just say it's the effect of what kind, for which investments it's betting. It is clear that this country has suffered from infrastructure damage for a long time, and in any case with some data that can be saved, until 2006, the infrastructure investment average was a 5 and a half percent more per sock, let's say, of the Spanish average. In this context, the Catalan governments try to exercise, let us say, with confidence in the Spanish Government, and from the Statute is approved what is called the "third additional provision, which in any case was intended – this third additional provision – it was: first, to increase the Spanish Government's inversion to Catalonia, equivalent to this inversion to the Catalan GDP; with this third additional provision, which was to be valid for seven years, the country's inversions were to be put to the day, theoretically, and, therefore, equivalent to this inversion index. And there was also a compromise that, in the event that the Spanish State's reversal was not carried out in that percentage, they would do the necessary mechanisms for the Generality to execute these assumptions. This lasted as long as the Spanish Government's promises lasted. The third, last, additional provision, let's say, for the thirst of the various Spanish governments, has not prevented that in any case we never arrive at this 19_per_cent. In any case, at the very moment, between 2007 and 2010, we arrived, we moved between 16 and 18_per_cent of the application of this additional arrangement. And since 2015, this has dropped to 10_per_cent, it's dropped to bits, and the planned reversal doesn't seem to have to go any further than that. For this concept alone, the Government calculates, roughly, that the debt of the Spanish Government with the Generalitat is about 3,800_million euros, plus other infrastructures that may have gone... We would also like to highlight the infrastructure model that applies. And we would also like to take advantage of this element to make a complaint, in the sense that we do not understand that from other parts of the territory, let us say, the Mediterranean there are complaints about the lack of reversal, about the fact that if we «mountain a chicken or not «mountain a chicken we will have more reversal, because that is not true. And this should be warned: the low inversion of the Government of the State is produced in three very clear territories; it produces a lower inversion to the middle of Valencia, the Islands and the Principality of Catalonia. Therefore, it does not seem to us that the position, from some territories, should be the complaint regarding the investments that can be made in Catalonia, but that, in any case, what they have to make is a joint complaint because the set of investments is increased, because more than anything else we have, in conjunctions, like the Mediterranean Corridor. Therefore, from this point of view it seems to us that the complaint is not worth the protest between territories, but rather that the effort to make this reversal is to be added. And what do we say: do we set the example of what they are spent on? Miri, the irrationality of Spanish infrastructure is patent and remarkable. And an example: when it is the first line of train to Catalonia, 1848 comes into operation the line of train that goes from Mataró to Barcelona, basically to download the products to the port of Barcelona. This line, financed with private capital, with private contributions, is opposed to the line inaugurated three years later in Madrid, 1851: the line Madrid-Aranjuez. This line, his great virtue was that he went to Aranjuez, that it was where the kings had their summer palace and, therefore, they could rest, and that was the end of the train: to be able to carry the kings from Madrid to their summer palace. And, therefore, these are the great differences: while we have aspired to productive infrastructures that have generated benefits for society, the model of application and the radial model applied from Madrid the only one that has made it is to enjoy, buy pre-blessings and give benefits to a few people, without obtaining a general win. The needs of this country are diverse, and we are concerned about the road network. Some of them..., to highlight some of them, we have, for example, the national II, an infrastructure in which we carry more than twenty years of complaints: one time and another, incomplete promises, ingenuity, stops... In any case, at these moments we have fifty_kilometres to unfold that the Government of the State does not seem to have intended to finish; in any case, today, no. Likewise, the variant of Vallirana, for which it seems that yes, that finally there are resources, after more than thirty years of complaining, and so we hope that this time it will be a reality. Another area that the advisor knows well is the area of the B-40 completion between Olesa and Viladecavalls, an infrastructure, to which there are six kilometers and a mile to finish, that has to allow connecting two communities with a very important economic GDP, such as Lower Llobregat and the West Valley. It's all necessary, too, that in the field..., the connection of the A-2 to the AP-7 to Castellbisbal. These infrastructures are necessary infrastructures in order to develop the economy of this country, the economy and the better mobility of the country. Therefore, from this point of view, it seems to us that we should continue to complain. What about the ports and airports? , that need of the railway connections of the port of Barcelona? , one port each time with greater content entry and which needs these goods to be able to exit, especially to the south. And, therefore, from this point of view, it is necessary for this railway connection to end once and for all. And for what it does in the area of airports, what do you say to them about the investment model made by the State Government, the Ministry of Development, with Barajas? And what did he do, the lack of investment he did for the Barcelona airport? , and the arrival, especially, to the port of Barcelona, in which we still have infrastructures to arrive. In order not to enter, already..., and today we have another news that, for example, we cannot have a direct flight with Japan, to Tokyo, from the airport of Barcelona, simply because the Spanish convenients limit this possibility that we can do it. This does not just happen on this flight, which today has been set up, let us say, in public knowledge, but it happens in more than eighty agreements, which limit..., or priority the airport of Barajas for any foreign airline, and therefore have to pass through Madrid, before passing through Barcelona. Therefore, this limits our economic capacity and our competitive capacity. And I will take advantage, counselor, of the second part of my intervention, to talk about the area of the railway network. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.40.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Member, I liked the concept here; I liked the concept of this, this quote from the date, huh? You're clear and clear. That is to say, one week after the happening, the performance, with the deployment of all media, with the landing of the President of the Spanish Government and all his team, the same Spanish Government discredits the Spanish Government. Let me be a little more incisive: the Minister of Hysenda severely, severely discredits the promises made by the President of the Spanish Government. Therefore, only with the press wheel that Montoro made, Minister Montoro, should we have just substantiated this inquiry, as you said. I mean, fiction, the price of sirens, it's only been a week. Yesterday President Puigdemont explained it in a very practical way, it is to say: "There has been a riuada that took away this alleged rain of millions and this, let's say, dialeg operation. But here, let's say, if I may, I will take advantage of the outline of your inquiry basically to reflect on the four elements: the « how, the « who, the « how much – with the end – and the « what, when we talk about all these promises and the presuppositionary layout of the Bill of Presuppositions for the year 2017. First element: the comm. The Spanish government has not understood that this is not about money, it is not about promises, but about democracy, freedom and dignity; these are the fundamental intangibles. And the way they were sorted was, another time, a monologue: they came here, they promised, they theoretically explained all the investments they had to make, and they were going to go. Those who were there, in the speech of President Rajoy, say that the assistants... There were various rows: the row of the slowest, that went there and, say what the President Rajoy said, would generate enthusiasm, and, then, the rules, let's say, of the aboriginals, to hear us, of those who work day by day in the field of country and infrastructure. The perception was of absolute perplexity and of a glacial fredor, because the country already has a majority of years in relation to these possible mermaid songs. I insist: there is no promise of infrastructure and investment that never comes, but of a fundamental intangible that is dignity. And this is what moves, to a good extent, this democratic movement, this wave of hope that has been caught up in the election of deputies and deputies on September 27, 2015. The second element is the 'here'. Clearly, what is unheard of is that who makes these promises is not someone born before yesterday – remember that expression? – it's not from the first flight. Mr. Rajoy appeared to us as an almost virginal being, above and promises, but President Rajoy is the one who fought to death the third additional provision of the Statute, which established a stable reversal in the time acceptable to the ability to generate wealth from Catalonia in relation to the conjunction of the State; and it is the one that has featured the four years more severe than retail and low levels, offensive, if it allows me, not only in relation to Catalonia, but also in relation to good public management. And you said it: the level of execution is low. We are talking about a level of implementation of the assumptions of the year 2015, already settled, of 71_per_cent; in transport infrastructures, of 59_per_cent– we are talking about this. We're talking about every cent Adif assumed in Catalonia in 2015, running only 28_per_cent– we're talking about this–, and 5_per_cent in Rodalies. And, therefore, a reasonable thing, if it is intended, let's say, to open a new stage, it would have been that, President Rajoy, the first thing I should have said is, "Secute, I apologize. We come from levels of glaring detail and incompletion. Because there are three gaps here. A first: what we're dealing with in relation to what's supposed to be – there's an important first drill –; and a second: between what's supposed and what's finally done – because here we've got it all worked out. They are now offering us plans; they are no longer planning for us: we must complete the commitments already made. And that's the third question – say the comm; the qui, which has no credibility, and the quant –: el« quant. There is a pending deficit not based on what we would like the Spanish State to execute in Catalonia, but on what the Spanish State, in its various forms and in its various governments, has undertaken to do with Catalonia. Only in Corredor Mediterranean, railway and road infrastructure, 10,000_million euros. Here there is no rain of millions – it was explained very well by the deputy Germà Bel in three blunt tweets, explaining it very clearly – because we are talking about the third lowest figure since the year 2001 – we are talking exactly about this: the third lowest figure since the year 2001 – which is very far from what is our fish not only as regards population, but also as regards gross domestic product. Miri, of these more than 10,000_million euros of debt to Catalonia, of the 2,195 on reel, the guany assumptions do not incorporate 193. Of the 3,890 in the Mediterranean Corridor, in pose 75, and of the 4,866 of Rodalies, in pose 397. Practically, they do not incorporate what was the emergence plan of the 306_million euros. We're basically talking about this: there's no rain of millions, this is the question, and this is the question of funds. I've already talked about enforcement levels; they say: "No, it's that the 2015 enforcement levels and the 14 were too low because we had an economic crisis situation. Execution level in Catalonia the year 2015? 71_per_cent; level of implementation in the Community of Madrid: 128_per_cent. We're talking about this. That is to say, in Catalonia, every four years, a presumption is free, to hear us, for incompliments; in change, in Madrid – we are talking about this –: of a 128_per_cent. That's the problem: it's all altered. Therefore, in the ‘how much we have to be very round: they can't pass us over– I use the Catalan popular classic – I work for the big beast; that's not it– that's not it. And the last question, which for us is very uplifting, is what. We are talking about infrastructures that are not new: they are absolutely repeated infrastructures, there is no element of novelty, because everything they say they do is what they have promised us, in multiple versions, that they will end up doing and that they have not done. But with an added element: the general assumptions of the State incorporate a point, let's say, that it is very round, to say the forecast of finishing these works. In the access to the airport of Barcelona bring us more elements of delay. You were talking about the B-40: the B-40, according to the strict literature of the general assumptions of the State, tell us that the year 2020 will end. They told us it was the year 2019 and we already found it exaggerated; we are talking about an eternal work, a work that began in the year 2006 – 2006! – and now they're telling us that the year 2020 was over. That is the only reason why it is completely discredited. Another one that generates me total and absolute perplexity, which is perhaps the road performance that has an internal return rate higher than all we can do: it is the Castellbisbal bridge, the bridge that connects the A-2 with the AP-7, and which forces the majority of people to pass through the payway, to pay the Martorell toll. They say to us: "No, no, this will end at the end of the year. According to the strict literature of the assumptions, they say that the finalization is the year 2019. We're talking about a tram that's reduced. And, for another band – and I end up with ‘what': ‘what's ancient. "What is not of the 20th century, is of the 19th century. I mean, the interventions that were made are a list of reversals, strictly. And this Parliament has believed, and this government has believed that when we talk about infrastructure, we don't have to talk only about material infrastructure, but about infrastructure management. The concept "digitalization" does not appear, it is non-existent; it is a classic list of ant actions, strictly this: zero talking about management, zero modernizing agenda. And, therefore, I thank you for this inquiry, because it allows us to compare data. We'd like that, this very debate, to be able to have it overtly speaking of data to the background. And, later on, I end up as it began: in the measure that this went from democracy, freedom, dignity, this people is already ripe enough to understand that they don't like mermaid songs, but decide for themselves their future of prosperity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.41.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. There's a word from Mr. Bloods.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.42.0	Thank you, President. As we pointed out in the previous intervention, we wanted to leave for this part the element of the investment in the railway network, because surely this is the element, let us say, that they suffer – and say they suffer – the citizens in a bigger way in the day-to-day, and also the economic effects that this supposes, or the negative economic effects that this supposes. We complain about the president of the current government, who came a week ago. I also want to make a statement on February 1, 2008, to great headlines: « Zapatero will invest more than 10,000_million in trains in Catalonia. It's always the same: big promises and hours away the warmest is in the water, too. So, it's not a new claim, it's not a claim that we demand luxury trains, it's a minimum claim of some investments that have to be made in this country because the citizens can just go to work, it's not that we ask for anything else. The Spanish Government has dedicated itself to extending its large investment plan to the AVE with a socio-economic return of dubious quality in most cases, with some lines that have had to be closed; yes, investments of, calmly, 2,000_million euros to make some lines that then have no type of economic return. Therefore, from our point of view, the complaint in Rodalies is more necessary than ever. And let's put it in value: the money – as you pointed out, counselor – destined in this 2017 pressupost for Rodalias does not go down absolutely. They told us 4,000_million for these four-year-olds; with the 200_millions and the cash that they have, or with the 300_millions that they have, not even in half, if we make a calculation to make it a reversal of about 500_millions annually. There you go! The minister says: "No, no, the next few years we will increase the quantity. We know, as these increases work afterward, they never arrive or fall down the path. Therefore, the Spanish government already did, promised us that famous, fantastic Pla de Rodalies, 2008-2015: 4,000_million euros, of which, seven years later, the execution is worth 13_per_cent. Then there is that cluster, let's say, of circumstances when the situation was already unsustainable. The minister appears and says: "Now we will make an urgent plan of improvement of the installations, 300_million euros, of which just executed a 5_per_cent. Therefore, from this point of view, promises and promises that there is no consequence after material; therefore, we continue to denounce once and for all the shortcomings of the Spanish Government. But it's more..., and then there's another area where it affects us, too, and it's of vital importance to this country: it's, let's say, the expense or mismanagement that is being made of the Mediterranean Corridor; an infrastructure declared for the European Union as an infrastructure of all necessity, as a priority infrastructure for the country, to connect from the Algerians to the color of Europe, and it turns out that the Spanish Government, with those negotiations that end up doing always, has come to invent that the Mediterranean Corridor ends up passing through the centre of the peninsula. And we allocate the resources that should be allocated to shut down all this railway corridor that would connect Europe to the peninsula..., destined for this: to AVE tunnels in Chamartin and other investments of these. And, moreover, last week, the minister of the Ram had no way of saying that the works from Castelló to Madrid were part of the Mediterranean Corridor. So, we didn't just hear it. This model for our irrational investments, which only have Madrid as centrality, let's say, of all connections, for us is a mistake from the political point of view, but especially from the economic point of view. What needs to be done... It is not normal that in this country it is easier and faster to go from València to Madrid, which is six hundred kilometres away, than from València to Barcelona. It is clear that there is a political decision by the State Government to attempt to alter the connection between these two territories that has historically worked and that should still work much more. And already in the line of finishing, said that other philosophers – in fact, the same one –: "I like Catalans, because they do things. So, miri, we would like to see that, in the band of doing things, we can invest, too, in our railway infrastructure, routes and airports. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bloods. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.44.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Congressman, Mr. Sanglas, has focused this second part of the inquiry on railway infrastructure. He referred to Rodalies, and he referred to one of the most strategic infrastructures and that, above all, because people understand us, is an infrastructure that generates many places of work. Their existence generates jobs; their absence makes us lose many opportunities. We are talking, concretely, about the Mediterranean Corridor. Some data that are placed on the table, is said: "No, look, listen, Catalonia is much more than other territories in anticipation of reversal in Rodales. Basically, because there are two great systems of rollers in the Spanish State – great – the one in Madrid and the one in Barcelona – there are no others, too. But Madrid is in a very advantageous situation. Now, here we are talking... The other day was Vic; I presented a book, which I recommend, a book edited by Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat, on the train from Granollers to Sant Joan de les Abadesses. It is a book, let's say, that explains the vicissitudes of this line, that was finished the year 1880. In the central part of the book there are photos of how the way was in the 20th century, in the 19th century and as it is now, and it's exactly the same: we're talking about a one-way street. Madrid has quadrupled, quadrupled trams. All lines are absolutely duplicated. Quadrupling lives means that there are semi-directs, meaning that there are trains running at each of the stations and other trains that are fast trains. That's what we need. And it is clear that with a few words of rationality, Catalonia would have more input. But there's another question that's basic, that's a xifra – they ask them to hold it –: 132_millions. What does 132_million mean? It's to say: Is the transfer of Rodalies to the Generalitat real or not real? Because they tell us that we theoretically have the Rodalies system crossed. The 132_million are the ones who would have to transfer the State to the Government of Catalonia because the Generality paid Renfe. They've never transferred that amount to us – ever. Who pays directly Renfe is the Ministry of Development. Theoretically we have the transfer, we have the transfer, but the resources do not have them. And now Renfe, who have already been unplugged, when we open them up, they say, "Listen, if you..., this is a transplant that, in fact, there is little, huh? , to hear us. Because who ends up paying us is Madrid, it's the Spanish Government, and not the Government of Catalonia. We're basically talking about this. But let's go to clearer figures. Miri, if in 2016 the assumption for Adif in Catalonia was 336_millions, now it will be 304_millions, 32_millions less, a 10_per_cent. If the assumption of the 2016 year of Renfe a Catalunya was 140_millions, now it will be 93_millions, therefore, a 34_per_cent menys. Then, the great headline of President Rajoy, to say: "This legislature we will invest 1,800 in Rodalies. SEITSA, which is the public enterprise that, for example, makes the launcher to the airport of Barcelona, also returns a 13_per_cent. We're talking about this. And in relation to the Mediterranean Corridor, what they say to us is: « The Vandellòs - Camp de Tarragona, the bypass. Clearly, this is not Mediterranean Corridor – it is not Mediterranean Corridor. Mediterranean Corridor is wide international, this is wide Iberian, strictly wide Iberian: 75_million of large Iberian. And the 45_millions of Castellbisbal-Tarragona, third thread? They're not there anymore. It was 2016 and they took it off, and now they're gone. We're talking essentially and we're talking basically about this. But at a later stage, we fix it there, or there it is, the data are very round: we are 16_percent of the population of the State, we generate 19_percent of the gross domestic product, we represent 23_percent of the industrial population of the Spanish State, 25_percent of exports, and now we are talking about a truly executed investment that is not above or 8_percent of the gross domestic product. We're talking about this. And, therefore, where theoretically it would have to be the locomotive for the State and for the south of Europe, it ends up being an absolutely unscathed locomotive. That's what we're supposed to be overturned. They tell us they want to make more plans? We don't have any more plans, but it's about fulfilling the commitments we've made. Do you want us to talk about it? There is an organ, which is the mixed organ, between the Government of Catalonia and the operator, Rodales. There is a capacity agreement between the Government of Catalonia and Adif: that they enter into foundations, that they work on foundations. We have written it all – we have written it all –, what we need are clear and tangible mechanisms because it can be completed. And then the question: what is it that we need? It's us doing it. And that's why we asked for the transfer. And that's why the sovereignist process started talking about infrastructure, making it possible for us to do it, and having the tools of any normal country, which is to have a state close to us, make it possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about investment in infrastructure]] [[300-00155/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on investment in infrastructure presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.46.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... Mr. Rull, I don't understand you. If investments are presented, because they are presented; if they are not presented, because they are not presented; if it is reversed, because it is reversed; if it is not reversed, because it is not reversed. I'm sorry, I'm joking, but you're the closest thing to grunt smurf. What you have to do is stop complaining, or not, or complain. It seems good to me that you complain, but that you have a more proactive attitude of collaboration, and, if you go to a meeting to which the Government of Spain invites you, it cannot be that the Territorial Councillor plays the role of the Knight of the Sad Figure – it cannot be. You have to go as a counselor, complain, and then, listen, how can we collaborate? And that's got to be his role. And let's make a little historical review of the state's investments in Catalonia, because surely you have some numbers – I suppose they will come from some strange foundation – but in the end the objective is what it is. Recent history shows us that the Administration that invests the most in Catalonia is not that of the Generalitat, it is the Government of Spain. And that's the way it is, whether you like it or not, but that's the way it is. From 2011 to 2015, the government of the nation has invested 2,254_million_de_euros, a 45 more, than the Generalitat, which invested 1,500 in this period. In this period, from the government of the nation are invested 386_million in roads; in railways, 488_million, more than triple that of the Generalitat, and in ports, 91_million. Do we compare ourselves to any community? It'll be with Madrid, won't it? : 7_million in Catalonia, 6,800,000 in Madrid, two major capitals. For example, in 2015 a 52_per_cent more is invested in Catalonia than in the Community of Madrid. And in the last five years, 40_percent more in Catalonia than in the Community of Madrid. And now comes the Spanish government and announces an investment of infrastructure in Catalonia until 2020 of 4,200_millions. And on top of that, you keep complaining. Is it wrong for the Mediterranean Corridor to end in 2020? Do you think it's wrong for it to be executed? Do you find it wrong to invest 850_million for roads, such as the orbital highway, the N-340, the 240? Is it wrong for you to invest 587_million for the ports of Tarragona and Barcelona? Or do you find it wrong to invest 1,882_million for Rodalies until 2020 and, cumulatively, 3,900 until 2025? It looks bad to you, as far as I can see. [[Pause.]] No, no, no, no, What needs to be improved Rodalies? Sure. We agree, no one denies it. But it is true that we have an old railway network because it is one of the first to be installed in the Spanish State, and obviously it has to be adapted. And what they have to do is collaborate as a government. How? I always tell you: for example, do not promise frequencies that can't be met to stay well with the mayors and that are technically impossible. Are you going to work with the Government of Spain to ensure that these investments can be implemented? Will they have a purposeful attitude for this to take place? Because to complain you have to have a comparison. And we're going to the 2017 budget: the investment situation vis-à-vis the other autonomous communities. Catalonia is the second autonomous community receiving investments by the Government of the State and the first in volume of work: we are only behind Andalusia, with which we also tied in percentage, in a 13,5 and a 13,4_percent investment. The rest of the autonomous communities, including Madrid, are behind us. They say we're down in real numbers. Or not – or not –: because if you compare it with the weighted 2016 budget, here you don't lower a_euro; on the contrary, you increase by 5_per_cent. Therefore, of comparative aggravation, none. And, if any, we are the most benefited from the investment proposed by the Government of Spain. I understand that we all want more investment for our territory – I understand it – but we have to stop playing political arsonists, and if we rule, then accept the responsibility we have. Yes, the great contribution of the President of the Generalitat was to ask for a clause of non-compliance; that I, when I read it, thought I was going for him, for him or for you, because as you are constantly trying not to comply with the law, for I say: "It will go for them, won't it? But that is the great contribution of the President of the Generalitat. But let us stop talking about his role as leader of the opposition of the Government of the nation and let us talk about his role as territorial adviser. What have you done in recent years? What is Generalitat's management of infrastructure? If I had to write you a note, it would be suspense. But let's talk about data, which is the objective. Catalonia, as a community, has the highest budget in all of Spain, but the least invested in its own infrastructure. Madrid, for example, with a much lower budget than the Generalitat of Catalonia, in the year 2016 licited the triple of public works with own resources. Why? Because I suppose other autonomous communities are interested in day-to-day problems. To you..., your priority is your fiction, your process, and all this diverts the political debate from what is really important: citizen security, eliminating school barracks, improving health and, of course, infrastructure. Mr. Counsellor – and here we agree, surely – infrastructures are of paramount importance in the competitiveness, economic and social quality of a territory. Its planning, construction and maintenance must be of priority action by any government and any society, and also expose infrastructures that serve the citizen, but also that can attract investments that help economic growth and job creation. Therefore, a prosperous society depends on its infrastructure. They alone do not generate development, but do not have the yes that it is true that it harms us to the potential development of a territory. And on the basis of this, as far as we are sure to agree, we understand that Catalonia is the main region of economic development in southern Europe, with an important tourism and industrial sector. What are you doing? To complain constantly and to cover oneself with the cloak of victimism, and, 2, to complain but not to preach with the example: what is the average investment in percentage of budgets in the autonomous communities in Spain? 1.7; in the last five years 1.7. What is the Generalitat's average? 0.99; does not reach 1_per_cent, well below the Spanish average. They speak of execution and investment of public works by the Generalitat. I'll give you a quick example. Alguaire-Lleida Airport: a cost of 91_million_de_euros and that is a real failure of business and commercial management – a real failure. Even Castellón's airport is..., and exceeds Lleida's at business and flight level. If nobody talks about Castellón anymore, that's why they don't talk about Lleida, you guys. And let's hope the Mediterranean Corridor can be an opportunity for Lleida Airport. Something you do very well, and I recognize it, and you're real cracks, which is creating ghost subway stations. We have Ernest Lluch's, between El Hospitalet and Barcelona, with a cost of 57_million, paralyzed, dead..., with a cost of 57_million, and I hope you will explain to me what you intend to do with that station. Or the district of the Barcelona Free Zone, which you have dug a whole neighborhood. They've opened up I don't know how many wells to then not even have a simple L9 subway stop. L9 and L10: management failure. And let's not talk about the C-55 anymore; if this is called "execution," what I'm surprised is that they don't reach 100_per_cent. With these plugs you had to have executed 100_per_cent of the public work. That way you can't claim anything. That's right, the Generalitat's investment in the regions drops 140_million_de_euros, drops by 11_per_cent. I hope that the subsidized press will give the same informational, or disinformational, treatment that has been given to the state's investments in Catalonia. And I'm going fast. Some data on how investment in the regions drops by the Generalitat : Baix Penedès, a 30_per_cent; Les Garrigues, a 87_per_cent; Baix Empordà lowers a 49_per_cent; in Garraf, a region in which you pay one of the most expensive tolls, a 46_per_cent; in the West Valley, where there are problems with Railways of the Generalitat, a 57_per_cent; Barcelones, a region that by its centrality has to have an important investment, a 20_per_cent; and Baix Llobregat, which claims improvements in its connections between the municipalities, drops a 36_per_cent. That's the investment of 2017 by his government. I ask you, Mr. Counsellor, to detail the most priority investments for you that are within your competence – than the details – because the only or last thing I know about you is that, when the tolls disappear, you want to continue charging for passing the motorways of Catalonia. There's the idea of introducing a flat rate for highways. It's the last thing I know about you: everything for the dough. [[Widow's remorse.]] Then they will say that in Catalonia more taxes, taxes and public prices are paid, but that – that – is not the fault of the Spanish State: it is the fault of the Government of the Generalitat. I hope that the level of public commitment – public commitment – that the Government of Spain has had with the investments of Catalonia will be achieved by the Government of the Generalitat so that all Catalans know what they want to do and what their priorities are. And time will set and take away reasons, and put each one in his place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.47.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.48.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr. Deputy, I apply to the 'breath deep and count to god. And, therefore, while I was listening, I didn't count to God: until I was twenty, thirty, forty, fifty, and I breathed very deeply. Well, interesting, isn't it? And, therefore, I think I'm on reasonable terms to go out without having to lie down in this line. In serious terms, you insisted on saying 'do you think it is wrong? : "Does it seem wrong for you to make this investment promise? , "Does it seem bad that we are doing the act in Barcelona? " Does that sound bad to you? Is that wrong? ... No, no, listen: I want things to be done, the Government of Catalonia wants things to be done, that there is no performance or public act, but that there is done. In the facts we find ourselves, because the facts are evaluable and tangible, and here is where there is a sharp discrepancy between some elements of post-truth that you put on the table, and the facts, coughs, that systemically deny them. So, what do we ask, modestly, of the Government of Catalonia? Menys gesticulation and more operationality for the benefit of the people of Catalonia. Because gesticulation at these times is no longer valid, and we have moved from a stage of despair to a stage of reasonable and responsible indignation on the part of the people. And you also say: "Collaborate. Collaboration? Parentheses: If I can be of this roundness that I feel like the head of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, it is because the Government of Catalonia has worked with the State. Miri, when the investments in Rodalies did not arrive, and the trains were shut down and the people were desperate, what did the former head of the Department of Lands and Sustainability and his team do, which is also my team? That it is, basically, set up 'at the Ministry of Development, Adif, Renfe, and score action by action, and make that plan of 306_million euros to ensure the reliability of the system. It is a maximum level of collaboration, maximum co-responsibility – maximum. It had to last two years, that pla d'emergèncias, 2014-2016. It just didn't enter 8_per_cent. And you're still telling us we need to work together? How do you cooperate? We will talk as often as we need; when we are called to speak and to dialogue, the Government of Catalonia will always be there. But, man! We have to do this on a solid basis, and, therefore, I can't keep us here saying that..., grumpy pituitary, roundabout barrufe – I like this second expression more, it's more ours, let's say it, right? – and say we don't cooperate. That's not true. But I put to him a repte, which is the following: I looked, in the time of Councillor Nadal, that there was an immense presumption of good faith, to hear us, an eternal presumption of bondage, two arrangements were made: one year 2005, Department of Territorial Policy and Public Works and Ministry of Development, which referred to the road network; and another, later, which was done in the year 2006, of the rail network. It's a very interesting exercise, I'll fill out the data and, if I may, we'll get all the infrastructure portals from the various parliamentary groups; it's a good exercise. Eren, because I can imagine, two lists. Deien, from the year 2005 until the year 2012, in the field of road transport, whose actions must be carried out by the Generalitat de Catalunya and whose actions must be carried out by the State. It was a double list. And in railways, exactly the same. So, look, with today's date – and here we see the actual level of execution of one and the other – the Ministry of Development has bid, under the protocol, a 31_percent of the work in the matter of reelers that had been planned to bid until the end of 2012. That's 786 out of 2,510 million. And the Government of Catalonia has bid 69 per cent of the planned actions. This is the most obvious, clear, most reliable proof of who performs, who has a diligent performance, despite the limited resources. But if this is already very broad, let's go to the railway infrastructure protocol. Clearer: On today's date, the Ministry of Development has tendered, under the protocol, only a 26_percent of the work that was expected to be tendered until the year 2012. The Generalitat de Catalunya, with a galloping fiscal deficit, in the midst of a financial crisis, with the financial markets closed, has bid 87_percent of what was committed to doing. Do you want me to say it in more obvious, more understandable terms? Miri, the Generalitat de Catalunya, since the year 2011, has invested more than 1,100_millions in extension of the metro network and Railways of the Generalitat, that means perllongament de Terrassa : 4,5_quilometres, 400_millions of euros, 3 new stations in operation; perllongament de Sabadell : 4,5_quilometres, 430_millions of euros, 5 new stations– 2 have entered into operation, the other 3 with immediate character will enter it –; finalization of 20_kilometres of line 9 of the metro: 2,881_millions of euros; continuation of line 9 to the area of line 10 Barcelona - the Hospitallet : 82_millions of euros. Summary of the Generalitat 2011-2017: 29_kilometres more of the network, more than 1,100_million euros of investment, 23 new railway stations. Fem un résumé de l'État 2011-2016: zero_quilometres more of the network; a 13_percent of the 3,641_million euros compromises between 2008 and 2015; cap nova estació; la Sagrera, que es un escandol, y Sant Andreu Comtal, attatas; soterraments de Montcada, Sant Feliu e l'Hospitalet sans concrecions. This is the difference, and this is the round difference. You can come here and do a post-truth exercise, and you can come to insist on what is supposed to be, but I insist on it: between what is supposed and what it performs there is a gap that is simply extraordinary, unacceptable. But despite an incorrect transfer or transfer of Rodalies, we have put in operation the R8 of Rodalies, Rodalies of Girona, Tarragona and Lleida ; nine serve from the line of the Railway People of the Generality. With data, increment of spectacular travelers: in these moments we are already at 200_per_cent of increment of travelers between a line operated by Renfe and operated by Railways of the Generalitat; 33 new express bus lines; 150_million euros paid between 2011 and 2015 for 24 new trains of units 113, etc. We're talking essentially about this. But from here on, you and your party, and your government in the Spanish State, which subdues us with an absolutely rampant fiscal deficit, you say to us: "Listen, do, keep the pace of reversal. And he told me about line 9 of the subway, and, implicitly, the tolls in the shade, the big investments. Look, we, like the country, have had to go into debt unnecessarily, doing great things with tolling in the shadow; for example, the unfolding of the Transversal Eix, which has cleared up a quantity of human lives, not with presupposed resources because we don't have them, but with different payment systems: unfolding the Transversal Eix cost us 710_million euros, we didn't pay 3,300. Why? Because the only alternative to doing so was to make an explicit toll or go with a different payment system. That's the theme, and that's the theme. If we can only recover half of the fiscal deficit in Catalonia, the amount of resources that we are going to pay interest for line 9 of the subway or for the tolls in the shade, would be substantially reduced because we could face many presumptive lung jobs. This is the basic difference. Therefore, if you want to be on the side of the people, make a serious, rigorous settlement, not from the gesticulation but from the facts, you will always find there the Government of Catalonia. But if you want to treat us permanently – the Spanish government and the party you represent – as underage, you will always have the government of Catalonia to avoid it. Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rull. There's the word Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.50.0	Mr Councillor, it is grace for you to talk about ‘performance'; it is grace for you to talk about ‘shows, performances, if the historical days you organize – it is grace. What was done the other day, in the end, was to inform the citizens of what the Government of Spain was going to do, in what it was going to invest in Catalonia. Because you guys have a way of disinforming. And, after all, what was done was to report. Then they talk about their execution. I've given some proof. As the public works do, if the strange thing is that they do not execute it a hundred_per_cent: badly finished works, poorly executed works, cost overruns, spectacular cost overruns. There is now an approved proposal that the tram should pass through the Diagonal. We are against, for example. Fear gives me, just as they perform a play, that they pass the tram through the center of the Diagonal – fear gives me. Look, if you want to talk about the Mediterranean Corridor. Before, I don't know who I was talking about here that they were going to do an act to explain the Mediterranean Corridor in Catalonia, Catalonia and Catalonia to the world. The Mediterranean Corridor is an infrastructure that vertebrates the economy of Spain's territory; it passes through four communities – by four –: it does not end in the border and south of Tarragona, it begins in Algeciras and ends in the border with France. What is the government that has put the Mediterranean Corridor on the table and is performing the work? The Government of the People's Party. It will take more or less, but it is being executed, and in Tarragona knows that they are progressing very well, those works. Yeah, and you know it, don't say no – don't be a grunt smurf. Let's talk about the Sagrera: why is the Sagrera paralyzed? It is not the fault of the State Government and you know it: there is a judicial process – it is not the fault of the Spanish Government. Access to the port. Who put the glues to do the works to access the port of Barcelona? The City Council of Barcelona. They're talking about the airport. Do you really want to manage Barcelona Airport? – Do you really want to manage it? If with the experience you have with Lleida Airport, which is a real failure, we will have enough to try to economically survive this infrastructure. Counselor, I give you another data, another historical data, huh? Public work of the Government of Spain 2006-2015, last ten years. Where have you invested more? Do you know? Catalonia, 17,7_per_cent– 17,7_per_cent–, and you know it, don't say no: 8,200_million. The second is Andalusia; the third, Galicia, with a 12_per_cent. What you have to have is maximum collaboration with the Spanish Government, with the Government of Spain. Don't complain so much. If something goes wrong, talk. I am convinced that things can be resolved. [[The speaker shows the camera a full in which various pictograms are reproduced.]] All this is the investments for 2017 by the Government of Spain. I guess he'll have them, I guess he'll know what they are. Few aren't, are they? It's these. If you don't have it, I can also get it to you and the rest of the groups. But it's good to know about it. In the end, Mr. Counselor, time will put everyone in their place. But I ask you: do an exercise in transparency and explain to the public what your investments in infrastructure are for this year, publicly, to do so. Because at least the citizens now know more or less what the Spanish Government wants to do here, because we have explained it, it has been explained. And you? No one knows. Some work will have thought, like the tram through the Diagonal. Explain it, do it publicly. And then, then, in that period of time we will see what the execution will be. I am now finished, Mr. Counsellor, but, you, little credibility in the good execution of public works. You, on your shoulders, will always be weighed by the L9, a work with a disproportionate and badly completed cost.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.51.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... There is a new public media character, not at the level of the United States but at the world level, who is a adviser to President Trump, who is said to be Kellyanne Conway, who has acquired a concept that, let's say, can handle calmly, which is the concept of 'alternative facts'. Do you remember when he explained this concept? When the White House spokesman says that, in President Trump's holding hold, there was more public attendance than ever before in history with any other president. And they taught two photographs: one of President Obama's possession hold – there, ple, very, to hear 'us' – and the other of President Trump. And they ask Mrs. Conway: « – Home, how can I respond to this? - Alternative fets. That's the idea. And his inquiry has been an alternate fact, which means creating a virtual reality. Let's talk about concrete, tangible things. I have proposed a methodology to him, I have proposed this methodology, and what we would like to see is that, in this discussion between the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and the Government of Catalonia, the rest of the parliamentary groups can actively participate in it or else not be noticed. I have proposed this mechanism, which is: we take the two protocols that Councillor Nadal signed with Minister Magdalena Álvarez, who was this very exhaustive list of what each of the administrations had to carry out. Work on this base. Because the problem is that, while the Government of Catalonia has new projects, it puts them on the table: the expansion of the C-58, the expansion of capacity; the three bridges to the C-14; the expansion of the capacity of the C-16..., all these elements, while we have new projects on the table, the plans of the State, badly – I insist: badly – are old projects, some of which come practically from the principles of the norm, the unfolding of the R3, for example. We use this mechanism, we use this methodology, because, if not, this is very little operation, very little construction. You go here, you explain to us your alternate facts, your post-truth, we have to listen to it, we don't get complacent and, meanwhile, what? We want to change, and change things. And in this same line, home– and I was pointed out by the deputy Bel –, says: « The Mediterranean Corridor, that vertebrate four autonomous communities: the territories of Catalonia, the Country Valencia, Murcia, Andalusia. No, no, now you've got more than a vertebrae. With its indefatigable insistence, in Brussels first, for the central corridor of the Pyrenees, which was an authentic senseless, and then incorporating Madrid, the Community of Madrid, the community of Castella - the Manxa and Aragó in which is the Mediterranean Corridor. They have succeeded, so there is no merit to it, that this is, to a very good extent, its merit, and that is what makes the Mediterranean Corridor more inverted in the Madrid branch than it is strictly where the most important part of gross domestic product is concentrated. This is the difference, and this is the basic and substantial difference. And again we insist on another time: we go to Madrid to present the work of the Strategic Table of the Mediterranean Corridor. Remember the poet Salvador Espriu? Salvador Espriu spoke..., to the "Start of song in the temple of God: "We have lived to save your words, / to return to you the name of every thing, / because you follow the straight path/ access to the full domain of the earth. The concept of saving words at these times is fundamental, it is basic. We can't say that the Mediterranean Corridor is what it isn't – we can't say that. You can't say..., and they're not credible when they say that the Mediterranean Corridor is a one-way unfolding with a large Iberian, because that doesn't help anyone. And do you know what the problem is? What else to quote Espriu, later there are many companies, in Catalonia and the Valencia Country, that are willing to invest a lot of money to generate a lot of jobs that, because of this uncertainty, because of not having a clear agenda, because of these expressions of post-truth, simply will not invest. And we'll lose jobs, and we'll lose opportunities, and we'll weaken the welfare state, not in Catalonia or Valencia, but in the conjunct of the Spanish State. We're doing this responsibility exercise. If we don't have to talk seriously, let's sit down and do it. So good someday they come with a path that it can be a path of progress, of well-being, of future, of rigour and of seriousness. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.53.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the appointment of the new director of TV3]] [[302-00134/11]] The fourteen points of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the appointment of the new director of TV3, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Albiach, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.54.0	Yeah, good morning, everybody. Before he started talking strictly about the young lady, he did want to make a point. Yesterday during the control session the President of the Generality accused us of presenting this young man we made black lists of journalists who did not like us as they think. I would say to the President, even though he is not, that if this is all the self-criticism that they make, then, it is..., we hardly go as the country, we do not favor democracy, and, clearly, these attitudes that affect them the most are the professionals and the public media in Catalonia. They cannot expel blame for the rest of a decision that it is now of the majority, not my own or my group, but of the majority; it degrades the credibility of a medium that must be re-referenced to public television. And, said that, let's sit in the seat. This young man has only one intention, that is that the person who is responsible for the direction of TV3 should be chosen by purely professional criteria, and not by reason of either political or partisan motives. And, in this sense, it's very clear, it says three things: the first is to fail the appointment of the new director; the second is to restore the normality of the governing board of the corporation, and the third is to seek an alternative to the model that supports corporate media in the years and coming of the parties that form part of the government, because this is the center of the issue. That is to say, from years ago the corporation has two main problems: the first is infra-financing, and the second is the political management that is done by the corporate media. And let's not say it to ourselves – I was already heard at the interview fifteen days ago at the corporate control session – the business committee said, the professional council, the journalists' colleges, the journalists' union, the white book of the audiovisual industry said. But it is now also said by Mr Enric Marín, Jaume Ferrús, Miquel Puig, Joan Majó and Joan Manuel Tresserras ; it is said, five ex-directius, ancient leaders of the corporate organs, and, moreover, the ex-advisor of Culture. And these five people have signed the document« The Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation that Catalonia needs, loading and denouncing the politicization of public media and demanding a substantial improvement in its funding. The corporation needs, from a band, a model of co-management where the workers and the workers can actively get involved, forming part of the governing council and walking towards a depoliticized and professional management of the corporation. And from another side, the investment in the corporation, which is hard hit by the retail trades of years ago: it's all insufficient if we really want it to follow a good public service, if we want it to follow the audio-visual engine and if, moreover, we want it to continue promoting language. Such a large and necessary ambition requires adequate funding, and as long as this continues to be possible we need to move from EUR 30 per person to EUR 50 per year. And if so many people from so many different backgrounds and so many different opinions have managed to agree to diagnose who are the wrongs in public media and, moreover, to propose solutions, Parliament cannot stand in the way. If the parties do not accept that the body has to function with a party interest, if the deputies and the deputies do not accept that the main object of the corporation has to be the general interest, we are failing in our role as representatives. And I'm just making a short note of what he's doing to the papers. To thank the Ciutat Group in the papers they have presented to us, and, from another band, to Juntes for the Yes, that we could not accept any ideas, therefore, because they suppress the imperative need to reform the governing council of the corporation, and, moreover, to "value – value – if criteria for the election of the guidelines of the public communication media are to be met. It's just that we're no longer at the time of valuation, it's that the diagnosis is done, and the wrong is done, isn't it? I mean, "valuing is already a past screen. I mean, what we need is for them to value joining this young man to say and do things right, and not as they've done so far. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next, to defend the slogan presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Mr.Jordi Cuminal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsel, MPs, MPs, 5 minutes to try to develop five concepts about the same motion, about our reviews, about the director of TV3, about the independent professionals and about the depoliticization of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. About the young lady, tell them someone's gone, huh? This week we saw as ex-responsibles of the Pontifical Corporation; as committees, groups and unions pitched the accelerator; as some parties, frightened, have not been able to agitate a dynamic that in private recognize that they do not like them. And so, at the university, at TV3, at the parliament, maybe a little bit all over the place, someone got out of their hands. And this young man is not the result. Let's see if all of this stores second thoughts, then maybe things will be a little clearer. On our exams, an attempt to pose seny, Mrs. Albiach. What's our job in Parliament? I mean, who are Parliament's functions? Fer read, approve assumptions, impulse of policies, control of what the government does. Our job is not to fail and to resign. We remember that TV3's director is not a political body, he's a professional worker. The agreements they propose do not have any possible application in this Parliament. She's a young man to bully the pot. They are out of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, with which they propose, vagina with account – they are out of the Rules of Procedure –; if mathematicians do not fail, they will keep news from the Constitutional Court. We simply proposed – we proposed – in the thought we incorporated, in the debate to modify the law of the audiovisual, talk to it. Why, do you know what's going on? That there are appearances tomorrow, that there have been more than thirty proposals to refer the laws of the audiovisual, and to discuss the procedure of how the directors of TV3 and Catalunya Radio, of the thirty proposals that have made three groups, there is not one. As the director of TV3 has chosen to answer to a law that you, in changing the law of the audiovisual, do not question. This is what we say: we value it if they want to talk about it. Because when they wanted to change everything, they had gone through it completely. I was quick, I was running out of time. About the director, why does he fail? For what reason? What did he do? What did he say? In the youth they present there is no display of motius, only agreements: "Fem outside this, we outside the other. I read – of course, as there were no motivations – his inquiry. And you said, "No one here has questioned the professional trajectory of Vincent Sanchis, I have not said a single word of the professional trajectory. If you don't take 15 days to the station and don't question your career path, why do you want to miss the appointment? Is that what he said when he appeared on the control board, just when he was appointed? "I don't want anyone to feel TV3 as hostile territory, I want to defend the honor of journalism on TV3, and the band of their political interests I want to point out that, to talk about TV3, the interests of television must be taken into account. Don't you agree on all this? Why are they reprobating him? I'll tell you: the reprobate for the one who thinks. And now we'll talk about the independent professionals we want to run the corporation. Do we want prestigious professionals to run corporate media all the time? , or only when they think in a certain way? Can anyone be a long-distance journalist and on the long-distance path have not written, have not thought about, and have not played in any circumstance? And if the one who wrote and expressed his opinion does not please us, does it become indispensible? – even though it's still good, as the President of the Generalitat said yesterday. Is there a list of good and bad people at the time of choosing journalists? What they try to do without what they think is simply that they try to do without what they think, and this is a very strange behavior in liberal democracy and in the state of law. About the depoliticization of the corporation that everyone will talk about today, tell you that this young man is a great political interference. It is asked to reconsider a name not for the career path, not for which this person has done or said in the exercise of his job, but for which this person thinks. This young man is a political veto on a journalist. That's why they ask them to reconsider: this didn't win or lose a young person, it either participated or didn't participate in the biggest stunt ever done to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Together for the Yes will not participate. For some, the speeches will remain; for us, the compromise with the independence of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans. And to finish: viscose the freedom of thought and viscose the free press. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.57.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Cuminal. Next, to defend the emena presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word of Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.58.0	Well, good morning, Counselor. Deputies, deputies, people who accompany us, good morning to everyone. Well, today we're dealing with this issue because whoever has left the hand is the government – the government, has left the hand. Your hand is gone because you want to use TV3 as the political arm of the process; you want to continue using TV3 to keep talking about your failed project. And, in addition, you have achieved something historic: you have managed to agree with all the opposition; with all the opposition, including the UPC – I hope that today the UPC will also say the same thing it says in the corporation –; with the journalists' union; with the workers of TV3. You've even divided Junts for Yes, you're cracks – even your own party, you've divided it. See Mr Torrent's statements at a press conference – see the statements. Now we know who's in charge of TV3: it's clear that he's in charge of the old Convergence and that the Republican Left is not in charge of TV3. In any case, I'm going to explain to you the reasons why... as Mr. Cuminal said before, because you don't understand why we're asking for reprobation. I'll explain it to you very quickly. Mrs. Llorach's, why? Because Mrs Llorach has not been elected by the Parliament of Catalonia; it is that Mrs Llorach has not been elected by the Parliament of Catalonia, she is in office, but she has been in office for twelve months. He said he came in a temporary way and came to stay: he's been screwing the chair for 12 months. Man, of course, charging; with what he charges, I imagine no one will want to get up from that chair. Twelve months ago Mrs. Llorach, who said it was temporary. And then he also changed the director of TV3, with night and lightness, without telling us anything, from one day to another. And on top of that, he takes our hair and tells us that no, that the director of TV3 has voluntarily ceased. I mean, does the director of TV3 voluntarily leave and at five_minutes you have another candidate and present it at the press conference? Don't fool us. It's just that we already know who the Magic Kings are on TV3– we already know. Mr. Sanchis, the crown jewel. Didn't they really have someone else? Are there really no professionals in the media...? I have worked in the media and I assure you that there are professionals from the head to lead TV3. Was there really no other? – Was there really no other? They've had to catch the guy who meets all three requirements to be a TV3 director. One: to be a fanatic of independence. That gentleman is a fanatic of independence, but I do not say it, he says, that he has passed all over Catalonia walking around, making bowling with « stellated behind talking in the Vidal style. That's what Mr. Sanchis has done: throughout Catalonia, doing independence rallies. Second, I hate and insult Citizens. This gentleman has told us « idiots, « cheaters, « irrelevant. You believe that a gentleman who is the director of TV3, who has insulted us directly..., what confidence can we have that this gentleman when dealing with political news will do so objectively and neutrally? But how is a gentleman who has told us that we are idiots and cheaters going to be plural and neutral? But how will it be neutral? If it's impossible. Look, when you're a journalist you can say anything you want, you can say anything you want; of course, you'd miss more, freedom of expression. Nor do we have to insult, forgive me for saying – nor do we have to insult – that a journalist insults, but he can say whatever he wants. What happens is that after that he can not pretend to be the director of the public television of Catalonia, that we all pay, and that he pays one hundred_ thousand_ euros. That's what you can't pretend to do next. Freedom of expression? Everyone in the world: you write whatever you want; you don't have to tell us « idiots, but no matter what, write whatever you want. But then don't pretend to be the director of public television. Lists. There was talk of lists here yesterday in Parliament: lists, lists and lists of good and bad. Look, do you know who made good and bad lists? You, the government. The Government made lists of good and bad, yes, yes; ACC made lists of good and bad Catalans. And you know who they put on their list? [[Greetings.]] Do you know who they put on their list of good and bad? To that lady there, who is sitting today and who is the leader of the opposition of Catalonia: Inés Arrimadas; yes, Inés Arrimadas, on lists of good and bad Catalans. You are on the lists, you are on the lists of good and bad Catalans – you are on the lists of good and bad Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] If you'll allow me, President, the councilwoman is getting nervous and we can't keep talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.59.0	Quiet, and please – quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.60.0	Thank you. You guys on the good and bad Catalan lists. And the third requirement that this gentleman meets is that he has lived very well from the old Conver... [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't get nervous, Counselor, I'm not questioning you. Don't get nervous, I'm not asking you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.61.0	Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.62.0	Madam President, if I may continue...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.63.0	Yes, I can go on. But, please, don't signify the saying. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.64.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.65.0	Don't assign the counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.66.0	If you want, I'll face the wall, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.67.0	No, not that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.68.0	Anyway, if you'll allow me to continue... I don't know what regulation you put in that you can't point with your finger. But anyway, I'll try to tie my hand behind my back.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.69.0	I was checking out the councilwoman said she was bad at listings.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.70.0	I wasn't... I was pointing to the government. If the Government is present, you will understand that I am referring to the Government. It's amazing, well, we'll talk about this at the Spokesman's Board. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.71.0	Yeah, you can talk about it, you can talk about it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.72.0	The third point... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If you'll allow me to finish...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.73.0	Yeah, yeah. He's threatening us, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.74.0	I just want to finish my surgery, I know that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.75.0	Yes, yes, you have the word – you have the word. I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.76.0	I know you're very nervous because maybe today you're going to fall to the director of TV3 that you've chosen, I know, because you don't have an absolute majority, but calm down. Look, one more piece of the independence machine – and with this I finish – the third requirement that Mr. Sanchis brings together: that he has lived very well from the old Convergence. But if he's been a biographer of Prenaphat, of the 4 percent Prenaphat confessional. If he's worked for you directly, he's a party mate. And, then, do you see normal that at the worst time on TV3, when the worst is going on TV3 hearings, you have Mrs. Llorach as president of the corporation? Who has Convergence Carnet, Mrs. Munté: Mrs. Llorach has acknowledged that she is a Convergence activist. It's okay, it's your party partner and Mr. Puigdemont's – it's okay. And the director of TV3, Mr. Sanchis, does independent rallies, and has worked for his party and has made collaborations with members of his party – by the way, with those of 4 percent. Look, right now, what TV3 needs isn't a fan of independence, what TV3 needs is a director of all Catalans. Repeat with me: TV3 is not from Convergence, it is of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.77.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Then, to expose..., to fix his position, has the word Mr David Pérez, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.78.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote in favour of the first point, which is to repudiate the appointment, not for the professional trajectory– no–, not for your opinions, not for what you have said, not for what you think, not for what you have done, but for what you have done, but to repudiate this appointment because we think that you did not agree with the law. Someone will say: "He has agreed strictly with the law. No, because the law asks for consent, this law asks for consent. Who did you agree with? Has there been any consensus with any opposition party? With no one. With all the parties that support the government, has there been any consensus on this appointment? Mirin, they don't make me talk. No, there was no consensus. Therefore, we repudiate this appointment. I insist: not for the one who thinks, not for the one who said, not for the one who..., let's say it, for his trajectory; no, no: because this is not the way to do things. Second, who's responsible for all this? Mrs. Núria Llorach. I'm not saying it, she said it. Our dear Núria Llorach, to the control committee, said: "The person responsible for all this is me, solely and exclusively me. I said, "I don't believe it; I can't believe it. I can't believe the government didn't see anything – and not what Mr. Roger Torrent said. I can't believe this. Surely, the government has something to see there. And I think this person who's probably profiled now and thinks he's not..., who's not going with her, should give a little more face and say, "Yes, we've had something to see in this appointment. Meanwhile, we have to ask for Mrs. Llorach's resignation, because she said she's responsible for all of this. Third, we in the third point – and we have already said this – had doubts, huh? , and we have said this since the first moment, because someone could interpret an interference of Parliament in the governing council of the ‘body'. We had doubts about this third point, and we have doubts because it is not our system, it is not our procedure, which would please us for the name of these charges. Mr. Cuminal is quite right: we haven't talked about this in a committee that's open. And we have proposals in this direction, we would like this nomination to be made in the governing council, but with a merit contest, as is done to BTV, as the Socialists have proposed to BTV: open competition. We would like this system, and we will propose this when the law is open to the question; we think this is the best procedure. Therefore, what we propose in the third point is not our system, which we want for the appointment of the director. But in any case, after listening to what he said yesterday, he said: "You want to make lists of journalists... Listen to me, we have no other reason to vote for this third point either, because nobody here is talking about lists of journalists– no one. Here, in this young man, where are we talking about lists of journalists? Over. I'm done – I'm done. What happened here today is not the best way to give anniversaries to the workers of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, which, every time there is a hearing index, we go to worse. We continue to seek consensus, yes, well done, especially among all of us, because we believe in the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation project, we believe in this project. And this situation that happened today isn't the best, huh? We can all go out and do some really sprawling interventions, but this isn't the way – it's not the way. Someone has commented that surely, in private... I will not comment on what some people have told me in private – I will not. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, I know he wasn't coming for me, but I won't, because this isn't the way, either. The way is we talk about it in private and come to terms. And in this line, the hand to the law that we have now between hands all the parties will continue to have it. Yes, what happened in the name of Mr. Sanchis is not the most appropriate procedure. Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.80.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies.... Terrorists such as Sastre and Otegi – one, assassin of Mr Bultó, and another, kidnapper of Abaitua – presented as political prisoners, as patriots. Shame. Tertullians who are leading attacks on the headquarters of democratic parties, our own, in particular. The Tertullian..., Mr. Fernàndez, David Fernàndez, who sits, in TV3 chats, chair on the best functioning of our democratic system. Another thing to be proud of. Opinioners who call « botiflers, « quintacolumnistas, « fachas, « phalangistas, « lerrouxianos, « anticathalans» to all those who fulfill an element in common, that is to represent or believe that a great majority of Catalans do not want or share a process of rupture that leads independence. To believe and defend that one can be Catalan and Spanish simultaneously and without conflict is a criminalized rarity permanently on a public television paid for by all Catalans. Look, it's been too long since TV3 is a Alloy, full-time president of independence – too long. With everyone's money they represent a few and they despise and insult the vast majority, that which also deserves respect, and more from the public media; that which they enjoy mostly when our Spanish selection wins competitions, and they proudly tell the CEO's surveyors just a week ago. That Catalan citizenship which the Government has orphaned, but from TV3's dishes it is sometimes despised and silenced. The last twist that has been made with TV3 is the appointment and express resignation – appointment of Mr. Sanchis, as we all know, and the express resignation of Mr. Peral. It is just the resignation of Mr. Peral and his replacement in almost three hours, when TV3 begins to cover the Palau case informatively, and to echo news that went beyond the simple press notes that are received from the palau. From what palau? That of the Tarongers, that of the Pati of the Tarongers; I am not confused now, by that of custom, with the other palau, that of music. Well, we believe that the appointment of this journalist, Mr. Sanchis, who has also stated on several occasions that the Palau case is an attempt to sink into Democratic Convergence and an attack on Catalonia, is not ideal. We believe that the new director appointed just ten days ago is not the neutral profile required by our public media, in particular TV3. He said the other day: « TV3 is not a government television, but a state structure. It seems that we are listening to some member of the government talking about TV3, when he is supposed to be the director of Catalan public television that we pay among all Catalans, even those that we believe is a television, not a state structure, listen. Look, it's not an appropriate profile, it's not a neutral profile, all they're trying to do with this appointment is to strengthen manipulation, and we're not going to lend ourselves to it. With regard to the president of the corporation and that resignation that is requested, we will, of course, vote in favour of it. We understand that it has not been elected by Parliament, and therefore that interim situation which is already prolonged for more than a year must end. But, more than that: if by any chance any group were not able to vote on that point and this point of the motion was not approved, we would once again announce to you that the People's Party is of course going to make use of Mrs Llorach's right to revoke, and that we hope to have the support of other parliamentary groups to do so if this motion at that point is not approved. Look, finally: we are going to support this motion, because in the end what we want is a television that is governed by respect, by representativeness, and that is at the service of all Catalans, and not as it has been so far: under the martial dictate of independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.81.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.82.0	Well, thank you, President. Go for a hug to Carles Sastre, Arnaldo Otegi, to everyone who has known Spanish prisons for political reasons, and some of whom do not arrive on the Sabbath alone. [[Greetings.]] We've already exposed it to the past-sell control board, we don't give a good version of the board, Mr. Peral's personal motifs to fold. Mr. Peral was terminated and in his replacement he wanted to appoint a new director, who was Mr. Vincent Sanchis. Now, to some members of the council, in particular to its vice-president and president in office, and to the ex-president – Mrs. Llorach and Mr. Brauli Duart – they lose their forms. Because that name could have been done the same way, with the law in hand. It's clear: it's the council's competence. But what did it cost, for example, to have communicated to the group? What it took to have done an extraordinary commission to explain these Mr. Peral's motives for having folded and thought of Mr. Sanchis for the professional reasons that Mr. Cuminal, for example, was worth. It's a prerogative of the council. But the process would have been more transparent in this other way, and would have been more consistent with the appointment of a professional, not a trust. Under conditions of normality this would not be necessary, but in a condition such as the present, where the corporation's council is in a very minor legitimacy, we believe that it was necessary, because doing so in the way it has been done implies a contempt for the public media, raises suspicions about the real motives of this name, and represents a minus for the parliamentary groups, which, as Mr Sanchis himself pointed out in committee, are one of the counterweights – one of the counterweights – which guarantee the plurality and independence of our public media. Look, we don't enjoy people with situations like today. We don't want to fuck an embolism-making-strong here, as other groups do, and say TV3 rents brains, etc. To us what we would like is to talk about agreements because there may be a plural corporation and an independent corporation; to recover the level of the debate that 99 did with this same concern and that gave place to the 2007 law, which was approved by a vast majority at that time, huh? I recall that the three parties of the tripartite and Convergence and Union voted for it; they only voted against the People's Party and Ciutadans, which at that time represented so-called MPs. Now, the 2012 counter-reform left the current scenario and it's the origin of this unlegitimized board making these decisions. That is why we agree to call for the resignation of its president in office, and to remember that the renewal of the three members is to be given in the first half of this year, that is, before the summer, and that in our opinion they should be the members who wear more years. The law that we need to reform we agree to incorporate clauses so that the director's appointment has more guarantees, and therefore also recovers the question of qualified majorities to name the Council's responsibilities, these aspects of the 2007 law. Mirin, in the debate of the plenary of that month of October 2007, Congresswoman Joana Ortega, on behalf of Convergence and Union, said: "We fully share the experience of the law: promoting independence, professionalism and de-government of the media. And he added: "We have been ruthless, because we believe that the approval of the members of the governing council, as well as the approval of the same president, etc., must be done for a large and qualified majority. And yet he said, "We have been beautiful. It was the words that Mrs. Joana Ortega used to defend the contents of the law that we believe should be defended, and that go on the line totally, diametrically opposed to what the director of TV3 has been named. Things seem to change when you're in government or when you're out. So, citing the 2007 parliamentary debate, it won't cost them to hear people's feelings of vote from groups outside the government that we have seen this decision totally opposed to independence and the de-governmentization of our public media. As we want to be ruthless and light-hearted in these questions, we are obliged to vote in favour of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.83.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.84.0	Yes, thank you, President. Before anything else, thank the support of the CUP, Ciutadans, the Party of Catalan Socialists and the People's Party for this movement. And, Mr. Cuinnal, we didn't get the big one, you did it this way by naming the new director, because if you think everyone else was out of their hands... man, I don't know, I mean, when everyone, and you listed them, he said he didn't do it right, maybe who was wrong about you. I'm just saying because they're thinking. In fact, you said: "No, because in the thirty-three proposals for the reform of the law they have spoken of objective criteria for the appointment of the directives. Yesterday at the same time you and I spoke, and I offered to add a point in which I would talk about these clauses to guarantee the objective criteria in the name of our directors, of our corporate media addresses. I told you I didn't. If you wanted to load point 3, you didn't want to add these clauses to it. Therefore, nothing more to add to it. I said the other day: let us not question the professional trajectory of Mr. Sanchis, which we question is how he was chosen, without transparency and without consensus. And on the other hand, we do question that a person who has insulted five of the six groups of this chamber and its voters – yes, insults' aesthetics, told us the other day at the corporate session – can be the director of the television that should be the television of all. And to end, who has done and undone in the media of the corporation are you, who have shared with Esquerra Republicana television for some and radio for others, and we are the only thing we try to defend the corporation from all political interference, posing as manifest what workers and ex-directors claim, which is a professional and depoliticized corporation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.85.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Cuminal, why ask me the word? [[Jordi Cuminal and Roquet intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.86.0	If it's a riot, isn't it more time, President? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Mrs. Albiach, carry me point three? Yeah. Do you want to talk about the law reform? Obviously. But carry me point 3, yes, because it is the greatest political interference that this Parliament will ever make to the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. I insist: those who have doubts, who think about it, are still in time to abstain at a point in which will perpetrate the greatest cacicada that has ever taken place in the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.87.0	Mrs. Albiach, why ask me the word? [[Jessica Albiach Satorres intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.88.0	Very briefly. Mr. Cuminal, they're left alone. Maybe it's you who has to rethink. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.89.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.90.0	Yes; to ask for the reading of the motion, of the three points of the motion. To ask for our reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.91.0	Okay. So, before we proceed... [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the reading and then proceed to the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.92.0	« The Parliament of Catalonia agrees: 1. Reproving the appointment, on behalf of the Board of Governors of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, of Mr. Vincent Sanchis and Llàcer as director of TV3. Two. To request the resignation of the current vice president and president in office of the Board of Governor of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, Núria Llorach and Boladeras. Three. The Parliament urges the Board of Governors of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjan Corporation to reconsider the appointment of Vincent Sanchis and Llácer and consider other applications.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.93.0	The vote begins. The motion on the appointment of the new director of TV3_has been approved by 73 votes in favour, 60 against and no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the saturation of health resources and the impact on accessibility]] [[302-00131/11]] The 15th item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on the saturation of health resources and the impact on accessibility presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady assumes escarp. [[Long break.]] Please, I know they're always asked, but they're in a hurry and they're quiet so the congresswoman can start. Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.94.0	Thank you, President. Parliamentarians, Members... This young man following the question that we were going to present in the previous plenary basically wants to refer to three aspects..., someone said "as the stones on the Sabbath that Councillor Comín has; three aspects that do not exclude from the other problems that our health system has at this time, but that we believe, as we said, that they break the principle of fairness. Let's talk about access to emergencies, access to primary care, and waiting lists. This past year, this year of government, we've seen how they've been forcing the system's seams, and we've been through a winter with hospital emergencies collapsing the day after, to a presentation where we've seen that surgical waiting lists have increased – and so on, the assumption we've devoted to it has diminished. And, finally, the revolt of primary care broke out, a revolt that was not in a CAP of Llobregat's blogs, which joined the professionals of many other primary care centres, and which produced a manifesto where they defined themselves as the poor German health care system. They make a list of problems about care delivery, waiting lists, bureaucracy, hospital centralism, insufficient pay: many of the things we have felt every day also in this plenary. And they end up with an important phrase: "There is no magic to get out of the crisis of primary care, but what is certain is that it will not come out without counting on us. Miracles Pérez Oliva said this week in an article, published in a diary: "The public complaint of the deterioration can be used to discredit the public system, but it also discredits to let it continue to deteriorate. I think this reflection is interesting and very important. Moreover, she referred to the fact that insurers had increased – private insurers – the number of subscribers in the waiting lists. The motion – and already entering it concretely – is a concrete step, but it also compliments the resolutions and motions approved for this Parliament. Therefore, we want to decongest the emergency service, but above all, as has already been approved in this Parliament, that the waiting time of the people who need to be there is not more than 24-48 hours, and therefore it will be necessary to recover the resources needed for proper attention. To drain, decongest or avoid unnecessary years of emergency service, it is necessary to provide the primary resources. We've seen how they define themselves, and we've seen and we've felt how their professionals feel. It needs to re-open closed CUPs and the expansion of schedules and specialties. We are also talking about the other aspect that is also necessary to decongest emergencies, such as the number of social and health beds adapted to the needs, as explained in one of the Juntes for the Yes. And that all city and citizen must be reached in a maximum of forty-eight hours in their CAP. Basically we're also talking about waiting lists, the very management of waiting lists, and here we're again calling for the recovery of the right to the maximum extent guaranteed, that's to say, we can work with a acquired right and not with a reference time that doesn't give you a right to demand, in this case, that there is a change. Some papers have been presented, on behalf of Ciutadans, to improve transparency and above all the clarity of the information. And in this sense, therefore, they have also incorporated themselves. We believe that the man who does it..., and it's true, they can say, "We're not doing anything again. No, it's like we haven't moved forward... what we're doing is we're putting together some of the things that have been approved, that are already a parliamentary mandate because they've approved, many with the competition of all the parliamentary groups, also Junts for the Yes, with which we've also been able to work some of the papers that are being presented. But beyond what we have approved, as I said in the same question, which, gathering what the emergency workers of the Hospital of the Sea give..., they want resolutions, but they want actions. And in this sense, let us hope that this young man, who again repeats three of the fundamental problems that we have, that he repeats, adding to them some aspects we, solve them, or, as we all believe together that they can be solved, serves to end the injustices, not only territorial ones but also access to salvation, but serves, above all, as a matter of attention to the completion of the appropriate parliamentary mandates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.95.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.96.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members... First of all, give thanks and congratulate the Member who brings us this important issue to Catalonia, this issue that can straighten out and solve. And to get him to find the best way, the best way to solve the issue of waiting lists. And so today some have seen that I was coming with Alicia's book to the country of wonders, remembering that fragment where Alice asks the cat what the way is to take, and the cat says to her: "That's what you want to go. Alice said to him: "I don't know where I want to go. And the cat, then, says to him: "So, that's just the way you have to take it. That's important, because the lists of waiters, to solve them, can take many solutions, decisions and options, but what's clear is that it doesn't work, it doesn't take the right way to solve them, it won't take us anywhere, in this case, good. We're in front of a young lady who'll help us solve some of the things. And in our opinion, it is necessary to do three main things: transparency; changes in its management, with everything that it entails, depolitizing the healthcare structure, and with everything that it entails, taking over the professional, and with the communicating vessels, some of the things that our law, which is in progress in this Parliament, therefore, brings; and, obviously, with financing themes: without money, it would also be impossible. Starting with transparency. In our opinion... Ciutadans know that he always advocates because the transparency between the health care system is maximum. Therefore, we wish that, at some point, those who have put this message to the totality of our law, therefore, can withdraw it and allow a debate to bring solutions, to bring other paths and other ways to try to solve it. In addition, we all know patients who suffer, patients who are waiting on this waiting list; patients who often don't know as much when they operate, when they get tested, because transparency in the waiting list is enough, enough painful. Therefore, it is important to know how long it will take a certain patient in a certain territory to test himself. And as long as it takes, for the same situation, 20 kilometers, in another center. Because there are zero-cost leads, as concerned as we are – as you are, counselor – for the economic issue, so you can set up some communicating vessels. There are a lot of people who would taste good twenty miles if that, so, you saved them four months of waiting. So we are surprised that there are questions, that he does, in this case, who speaks, to know more about what happens to the waiting lists..., there are questions that he asks new months that are in the kitchen and do not receive an answer. As one Member says – I don't see it now, but the committee often says – reality is coughing up. And well, as some of you say, the reality is well coughed up, and when the waiting lists come out, after a year and a year of government, the waiting list increases; so much so: 2,5, 5, 6_per_cent, I don't want to put a xifra on it. Anyway... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, if so, counselor, then, publish it to you, and that's why they make it more transparent. But in any case, it didn't improve the waiting list. In the first place there is a list of waits, in the hospital there is a very large list of waits, in order to carry out hospital tests there is a very large – very large – list of waits. So, actually, reality is coughing, it's coughing, and when one doesn't take the right path, the right path, the waiting list isn't just kept, which in this case is kept, but more grows. Since the counselor gives me the gesture of missing money, we'll also talk about the other two things, briefly. Management and finance, counselor. I'm worried too, and we'll bring you something too. In managing it he said: « Powered the health system. I will not read point 8 of this document that I know you know and that you, Members and Members, would be interesting to read, but the same professionals are the ones who offer to manage, to help manage the health system. And, therefore, when health professionals offer themselves, if I had, in this case, the key to giving them power, I would do so, counselor. And the one I've already commented on, of communicating glasses. To finish, finance, obviously. There's no doubt that more finance would help improve the waiting lists. But it's also true that money isn't the solution, is it? And so we're not here to toast to the economic sun either, because we know it's not just a question... And if anyone wants to promise a zero-hope list, those of us who know the health system know that this is not viable, and therefore can't, in this sense, populism. I'm done, President. More transparency; better management, not politicized – at least not politicized to the maximum of its possibilities – and more finance. For this reason, we will give full support to this young man. We understand that this is a priority issue, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.97.0	Mr. Soler, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.98.0	Desiting them, president, deputies and deputies, good Holy Week, good books, good readings, family time and finding the way...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.99.0	You've spent a lot of time, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.100.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.101.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next, the words of Mrs Maria Assumption Laïlla, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.102.0	Thank you, President. Today I do not want to lose the opportunity, as we speak of salvation, to remember that it is the World Day of Physical Activity, that this is an important step for prevention. And the prevention in health I think is one of the areas that we barely even talk about or don't talk about enough. With regard to the motion that Mrs Escarp presented to us today, I would like to thank the good availability that the Socialist MP has made so as to let go of the maximalistic and easy positions, and to enter, therefore, to take a critical, constructive look to which we have passed or have detected many times, we have been diagnosed, to our system of salvation. And in this sense, I want to highlight the girl proposals in this motion on the access circuits, so as to improve them; the circuits, the mobilities, between the primary and the socio-sanitary of the patients, facilitating the precise derivations of the health professional of the primary, taking over the primary, always, however, with territorial equity. And with an important issue, for me, not less, that it is to put in place what it takes to make any management decision, that it is the updating of the health map as an indispensable tool that we have to plan our system, and more at a time when the needs of patients change and coexist with some health structures that are certainly not adequate to respond, therefore, to these needs of salvation, and that we need to make this global reflection of which is our health map. And also why we have to put on the table new health care models; we or not ourselves, but I'm sure I can use them, such as home care or case management. And we've also talked about planning to include our ideas – and I want to thank the honourable Member as well – and those that make a precise reference to the National Emergency Plan, a plan that has been asked and approved in this Chamber, in Parliament, and that will also allow us to plan and act from real data, because there has been a large share of participation with new face-to-face sessions, with more online participation, which, moreover, has been of an extended municipal representation, of professional entities, associations of visits, associations of patients, etc., and that is likely..., I think we've all received the notification that the week you see, therefore, is going to be presented. And in this sense, therefore, I would like to say in this motion that we give support to all the papers, also to the members of the Citizens' Group. However, I am already going to ask for a separate vote on point 4.2.a, and our group will abstain. But also in this sense I want to put on the table the debate that there has been so far as to get to a deal at this point with the Member of Parliament Scarp, with this will that we all have to go looking for in which procedures we can certainly reach agreement with professionals in which reference time can become a guarantee time. And in this sense, too, therefore, take the glove, which I already throw at them and ask them to step back, too, so that they can work this in due time. As I said, we support the accepted documents of the Ciutadans Group, because the register of surgical waiting lists, diagnostic processes and external consultations always, therefore, lowers the date on which it is requested, following the demand coming from primary care or specialized care. And, from July, CatSalut's website will also have all the information on the waiting lists monitored for trial and specialty, as well as external hospital consultations. What they do understand is that technically it's very complicated, so it's managing the information of a centralized waiting list that lowers the wait for each healthcare professional, but each patient will know for what healthcare professional they're waiting for. And finally, Mr Soler, one morning: if you look at him, when I refer to his remarks, he was talking about health professionals, not doctors. Simply, and from the cordiality, broadened the scope to other health professionals who are also on the waiting lists and managed their own waiting lists. And, finally, it was very easy for me: you were talking about Alicia in the country of wonders and saying that Alicia didn't know who to go; it's that precisely we, the group of Junts for the Yes, have very clear who is the way we went because we know clearly where we want to go. I don't think I remember that, but we want the independence of our country. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.103.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Laïlla. Next, in order to fix his position, Ms. Ángels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.104.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Escarp, many thanks for the motion presented, which naturally our group will gather. But I also want to say that the young lady remembers a little bit of going around and remembering previous resolutions already taken and accepted, in some cases repeatedly and in others, unfortunately, oblivions. And I say so because it was not worth making a statement, not just in voice; in change, I do invite you and your group, and all the other groups, to feel that they are being questioned with very clean resolutions in this, especially for what they do to the question of accessibility, and that they continue to barrate and remain invisible. I am referring, for example, to a resolution, which is the 1137/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, in which it spoke of central sensitisation syndromes, which at times already refers to Resolution 203/VIII, of 2008 precisely, so we were talking about a series of collections where they have bars, where they have... many difficulties. Ever since the council, they've been putting a needle in it, they say that maybe at least you're clear, but not for everyone. I mean, there's still a people who's in a black hole, and I hope that this black hole is detected on this map that's called for in the youth, because the feeling of invisibility, of neglect, that there's no one else out there in the health care system, and even in social work, so, you ask us, I think. And we cannot fail to keep it present; it is to say, we cannot go back to some resolutions, to some lists of hopes that are punishing, that they must be dealt with, that they must be resolved. But we also have to look at the other song, at the invisible song, where there is all this invisible people: some, in a situation of solving's – let's hope and trust, and in this I trust – but others, in which there is simply no – and the Lord Counselor knows why I'm talking – not just one specialist to all of Catalonia because what was there they made disappear, like Dr. Noguer, who was the only good specialist there was in multiple chemical sensitivities. Dr. Noguer may have at these more than seventy years, I don't know, but he's here, he's an act of Catalonia, which solves a big problem for us, he can allow us to make a visibility and begin to bring solutions together with other professionals, who are answerable from public health to these people who, if they have media, may find some partial solution at home, with home care, therefore, privatized, to their serious problems, but who, in turn, from public health do not even have the door to open accessibility. And it is in this sense that I wanted to ask them, and it seemed to me that it was not appropriate, in one respect, that in this way we all somehow put on our work clothes and say: "We analyze, on this map of Catalonia – together with the work that is being done in many municipalities, and that is being done very well in many municipalities – "we see all the people who are desperate. I have said of some specialties, there is more, but let us make this map reflect not only the visible orography but also the invisible, that we have... in the iceberg of health and sanitation, and give answer, let us begin to give answer to all the people who need it, and, in concrete terms, to the most oblivious people, these of the diseases of central sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.105.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.106.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, it is a pleasure to be able to re-discuss a deputy's motion on health policy. And in your absence, we've done it too, huh? - We've done it. Counselor, time runs out – time runs out – and the warmest is water. The time is running out because you yourself have committed yourself to being, as at most, divided, that you have certain functions, and what we regret is that, among the functions that you have assumed as a Health Advisor, therefore, you are not solving the problems that at this time is – at this time and a few years ago – Catalan sanitation. And the lady I think reflects very well. This young man refers, precisely, already, to two other motions that have been debated in this legislature and that go in a sense seeming. Because the problem we're discussing today, here, it's not a new problem, it's a problem we're dealing with. And the motion refers, therefore, to a February 2016 motion, also from MP Escarp, Socialist Group, and another February 2017 motion – less time ago – of the People's Party. But both motions went exactly in the same line, because the problems that we are talking about today, here, are the same problems that we were talking about as early as the month of February 2016 and 2017. And the agreements we're asking you for today, here, another time are agreements that have already been made in this Parliament. And I suppose something of a democratic mandate has to hold the accords of this Parliament, above all on an issue that is the competence of this Parliament. There is often someone who appeals to democratic mandates about things in which we have no competition, and those in which we do have competitions and those in which there are perfectly legitimate democratic mandates, so let us go – let us go – and set other priorities that do not reflect on a good service to the citizenry. And the two main problems facing this young man are those of collapsing hospital emergency services, which I would like to partially unlink from episodes of influenza epidemics, for example, that may have been, because there is a structural problem. That when the conjuncture of a certain epidemic, these problems get worse? Yeah. But, aside from these short-term problems, there is a structural problem. And in the House solutions are set, and the same solutions are set that we've been talking about for a year now, that's... we don't want to take over the primary school, give more service to the primary school. It's part – it's part – because there's a set of problems, and part is the primary. The reduction of the hours of primary care centers, the closure of primary care emergency centers, contributes that part of the population– 64_per_cent, has valued the department– vagina to the emergency services of the hospital centers. And another deficiency: the lack of social-health beds to address those people who are attached to emergencies and who require an income or social-health care. And that's what he's talking about in the House, but that's what the February 2017 motion was talking about, but also the February 2016 motion. And the other important issue, that of the waiting lists. There are still more than 830,000 patients in waiting lists, including visits to specialists, diagnostic tests or surgical interventions. With the addition, I had it a few weeks ago, that in the case of diagnostic tests there has been a hint of the average time – of the average time – of the list of waits, which has passed from sixty-six to eighty-five days, has it not? This is a remarkable and important increase, and more in view of the fact that one of the Government's objectives was precisely to reduce waiting time – waiting time – to half. "All right," he says, "we need money. We're on board. And we would also agree that the Catalan Government is underfunded. And I've said it before, if we agree, counselor; but this is a problem of the Government, of the Government of the Generality, basically – of the Government of the Generality, basically – because it has the resources to prioritize the policies it wants to do. And you certainly have to prioritize other policies that are not health policies, counselor, and you know it, you know it perfectly. Because in the end – and I finish my intervention already – it is clear that the path, Mrs. Laïlla, you have made it clear. The problem is that there is a part of this Parliament, and we are among them, that we are also clear that the way you have chosen is not the right way to solve the problems that Catalans have in public health. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen of the House...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.107.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.108.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. Good morning, in the background, on the day of the marmot, and on the day of the marmot not by the responsibility of the deputy of the Socialist Party, only because it is once and another that we vote the same, and the effects are not, because, if not, we would not vote the same again. A little while ago, counselor, you were also, like your monthly appointment, with the Health Commission to make the assessment of your first year of..., or your year of government, right? You suggested that you had sunk 80 percent of your government plan, but then we look at the motions voted and approved here, and we add that on February 2016 we vote and vote systematically the same. So, it's fine, you've completed your 80 percent of the government plan, but after the things that are voted here don't happen, neither are they fans nor move forward. And, of course, okay, the week before the National Emergency Plan; on April 20th, you planned to come and talk about waiting lists, but it's been a year that we've been calling for solutions and calling for solutions. And it's not just a matter of assumptions or assumptions, it's a matter, too, of how we prioritize and where we spend money. Therefore, here is a matter that worries, and that concerns not only this Parliament, but... I was commented on by the Socialist Party deputy: we have the issue of rebellion in primary. In fact, today one of the primary meths published an article in The Diari de la Sanitat, and I believe that his last paragraphs should worry us all, because they just say that..., or so, the article is already entitled "The sadness of the family meth; with the title I believe that we can already perfectly copy the state of the soul. But they just said, "Society demands solutions, and many times we can't give them. Because they're not coming, because the pressure is constant. And, therefore, it means that there are things that begin – not to say that they are over; it is not that ‘beginning, but long ago that are – to require drastic solutions, also, and immediately, if we cannot wait constantly to make plans, because it is very good to plan and it is necessary to plan, but we also need to be able to execute. And, of course, it seems to us already to put an end to things and, as I said, plan, but it's starting to come up for a moment, isn't it? I also told the committee: I think you want to do a lot of things in a very short time, but in a very short time I want to say it in less than six months, or you don't expect things to happen in six months, and then you don't... But, I mean, there are things that we either do or they'll be late, or they won't be. Go ahead and let us give full support to the young lady, but there are things that should also be reflected on, because it is not just about..., or, then, about transparency, which the deputy of Ciutadans said, but about going further there. And that we perfectly assume that with this young man we lay the good to the wound, but we lay the good to the wound, we do not cure, we do not go to the bottom of the question. And it's also important that we go to the bottom of the issue and that we think that years of a model, years of political decisions with regard to the health model or health system have consequences, and that we are living them and that years ago we live them, but that they have consequences, and that, therefore, we all need to put ourselves at once not to put the good to the wound, but to go to the bottom of the issue. And that we clearly discuss model questions, questions of com prioritization and which areas of the health system prioritization. And that, if we prioritize primary care, we prioritize it clearly, we don't dedicate ourselves and we don't limit ourselves to deriving indeed medical evidence that before is done to the hospital to primary care and is already, but that we therefore clearly provide the primary care of resources and also of the recognition that it deserves and deserves all the healthcare professionals in general and of primary care in concrete. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Regant. Next, you have the word Escarp, to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.110.0	Thank you. Well, basically thank the support, also thank the papers and the one that was incorporated, and thank Congressman Santi Rodriguez for his words. And I said before Congresswoman Laïlla: Today is Physical Activity Day, I'd like to send them all to the country, too, to make a couple of times. [[relays]] Because I think we'd be all right from time to time. You're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're right, you're The deputy of Catalonia is right. Yes, she is Pot, of the CUP, and the deputy of the People's Party said so too: we are repeating. I said that, didn't I? It is a young woman who repeats many of the things we have approved, but unfortunately we have to repeat because they have not been completed, and because we continue to be where we were and because somehow it gets worse when we don't do it. I used to say this with a phrase to a journalist, but I actually came to say it in this sense. Give thanks, too, to the deputy of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. We have always said this: if the city is the center of the policies of salvation, neither the collection nor the person can stay out of this attention. Let's hope this young man, who's a sum of a few things, is also used to give impulse. Let us hope that the same presentation of the National Emergency Plan or of the waiting lists in some way can give an answer to all this; we will be loving and follow up. And also carrying the words of some other Member: "There are times when we think that you want to do a lot in a short time. The limit has been placed on you, and it turns out you're just doing it for a long time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.111.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Escarp. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Soler, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.112.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.113.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.114.0	Thank you. No, it was simply to comment to the honourable Member that, when I spoke of the different paths that a person can take to make decisions between the health system, he spoke of questions that you have. We already know that you have ideological options between your group that are different models of healthcare management. He was just talking about it and he wasn't talking about the wonder of the process. Now, if you want to take her out and then we're talking here that she hasn't moved or changed anything in the past year, then you're the one talking about it. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.115.0	Separate votes were requested from points 4, 4.2 and 4.a. [[The president gives the word to Mr. Assumption Laïlla and Jou.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.116.0	Point 4, point 2.a. It's a point. The 4 has several points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.117.0	The 4 has four points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.118.0	4.2a. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.119.0	And can you vote together, this point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.120.0	It's that it's a subpoint.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.121.0	Ja: 4, which is 4.1, 4.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.122.0	No, but we're just asking for a separate vote on 4.1.a. The remainder of the 4th is able to vote together with the rest of the motion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, 4.2, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.123.0	Yes, yes, yes, yes: 4.2.a – yes, yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. It was that I had seen 4.1, I had felt it 4.1. It's just a point, it's just a separate vote from this point, which is 4.2.a. In any case, we vote first, and then we vote the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's get started. We're voting point 4.2.a. The vote begins. Point 4.2.a_was approved by 71 votes to 60. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the saturation of health resources and the impact on accessibility was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. The session is suspected of two-quarters of two middays and three minutes and is resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who is assisted by the Secretary General and the late Anna Casas and Gregory. At the government bank, the Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History and Councillors of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency, Education, Health, Territories and Sustainability, Labour, Social Affairs and Families, Enterprise and Knowledge and Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.124.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into children's education]] [[302-00129/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on children's education, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.125.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we present this motion on children's education, which is very focused on the municipal schools in Bressol, where we stress once again the need of the Government of the Generality to regain co-responsibility in the financing of the public school service in Bressol and to guarantee its continuity and sustainability. Because not to do so implies, therefore, not only to remain work and training opportunities in pairs, especially in the seas, or to hinder conciliation, but directly to deny educational opportunities to many children, especially those of the most vulnerable social backgrounds, taking into account, therefore, the important tax impact that schooling has in ages between zero and three years, both in the later school and academic income as, above all, in terms of equity, since it is the most redistributive policy and that the most return implies as a long-term reversal. Therefore, it cannot be that this government continues to abandon the schools of Bressol and leave behind responsibilities when it has exclusive competences. It is not worth, nor is it, to allocate zero_euros to Bressol schools while continuing to finance with almost 30_million euros annually the schools that secrete by sex; and it is not worth, nor is it, to continue to charge the financing and the support of Bressol schools to the spaces of joints and families, which cost more than 80_percent of the price of the square. And neither do we understand that agreements are supposed to be made, most of them not agreed, with the deputies to delegate the responsibilities of the government and live again a year with uncertainty as to whether or not the grant will come out. And I also want to insist on this issue: we understand that there are no deviations of €81 million from the Bressol school parties when they existed for other parties, such as the delegated name of the faculty of the Concerted Centres, when those nomins should have already been paid in the match that also existed for the Concerted Centres, more than $800 million. And I'm also going to tell him: we don't have any announcements and promises for the last hour that only serve to justify ourselves, the truth, that sometimes remind us of the government of the PP announcing rain of millions. The answer is not that they announce that the year that the parties will be recovered, the answer is that they complete today and that, therefore, they compliment the additional arrangement of the guany assumption that establishes the government's mandate because it covers at least an economic module of 1,600 euros per square. Therefore, this is what we want today, not 2018. And in fact, we are waiting, at least, for the course that will begin in September and, therefore, we ask the Government to act with leiiness, transparency and, as I said, to assume the responsibilities and the financial commitments collected from the assumptions, and obviously also to restore the parties destined for the promotion and functioning of the families of municipal children, who have not returned to the joints since 2012, because it seems to us to be justice. On the other hand, in the motion we ask for a map of the offerings of existing children to be able, precisely, to analyze the territorial inequalities and the existing social ones; above all, to be able to carry out a correct planning in the medium and long term. This is why we often complain; therefore, we have the opportunity to do so and, therefore, we can also increase, if necessary, the public places of children's education with the aim of reaching universalization, which is not obligatory, of the education of the little child. And therefore, in order to increase precisely the proportion of children from socio-economically disadvantaged families who have access to this schooling, we urge the Government to guarantee a sufficient share of scholarships and aid that will ensure this real equity in access to the zero-three education service, and to promote, therefore, affordable, so precisely, to improve these educational and work opportunities of the families we talk about. Because we also see here how the Government of the Generality is disentangled from other measures that I have to see with equal opportunities. Then they are surprised that there are vacancies, but it is that families cannot access them, and they end up feeling only the gatherings that, through various systems, such as social pricing, end up promoting the access of these children from the most vulnerable families; that, if it was for the Government, because they do not have a start, therefore, they would probably be excluded from it. But we warn you, we don't want any ghetto schools and systems that can expel the middle class to the private and that can reproduce spirals of segregation. We want quality municipal schools, which follow the reflection of the society around them, which reverses existing inequalities, and therefore we understand that progressive fiscal policies, which sometimes, therefore, do not greatly please the Junts Government for the Yes. And we also ask the government, therefore, resources, necessary to promote and guarantee an inclusive school model that we do not have today, that neither does the new school decree inclusive retreat, but leaves children out of it. We also ask for the necessary presuppositional endowment for the feeding scholarships at this educational stage. And we incorporate a few more, points of foresight, in relation, for example, to the adequacy of the ratios between teacher and student, which, in any case, I will try to explain to the second part. And finally, therefore, we are also talking about guaranteeing decent working conditions for all workers and workers in the first-cycle child education centres– they are enclosing food workers, pick-up workers– who are often due to monitors in a rather precarious working situation and, therefore, we think that these workers should also be part of the education project, taking into account, therefore, that we are talking about the smaller ones. And ultimately, what we ask of the government is that it regains its commitment to finance, to the support of the municipal school service, and that it acts, therefore, with transparency and institutional loyalty. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.126.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. This motion is identical – practically identical – to the following. It is true that no parliamentary group has asked us to group them together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No; therefore, no. So, no, secretary. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.127.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Some political parties have a lot to say, which is why we want two turns. Good afternoon to everyone. When we talk about education from zero to three years, we talk about three fundamental aspects for our society, such as social justice, equality between men and women and the importance of the teaching pocket. In the first place, social justice, since different studies show that education first has a positive impact on school success and social skills. This positive influence is especially important with the unfavorable society because they are usually the least likely to come home. In this sense – and already mentioned by Mrs Niubó – we can talk about predisposing policies, since they postulate the treatment of inequality before it is necessary to compensate for this inequality for the redistributive lives. So let's not consider it a expense but a reversal that, for example, can save us money for school losses. That's why we need an increase in public places from zero to three years and guarantee their gratuity according to the income level. Secondly, the equality between men and women, because, today – and that's it, whether we like it or not – normally the child of the children takes over the woman. And if a member of the pair, in the case of heterosexual couples, has to stop working, this only being the woman; women who see their professional careers truncated or who then have trouble getting back into the world of work. And finally, of these three aspects that I have commented, the import of the teaching pocket. For Ciutadans, teaching is one of the most important professions, because it is about the future of our society. And to be able to properly develop this task it is necessary that the working conditions follow the best, which today does not pass. Child education is essential for Ciutadans. And that's why we presented a motion in November and, in fact, the motion that we will see now from the PSC, from the thirteen points, if we already brought them to our motion, and these points were approved for the votes of the opposition and with the votes against Juntes for the Yes, for which we can clearly see that the Bressol school is not one of the interests of the Government of the Generality. From these six points that were in our office and are now resubmitted, they are resubmitted because the government does not comply with the democratic mandate of this Parliament, which is to finance the Bressol Schools. And that's why we'll find it again now, March. We are talking about this; we are also talking about guaranteeing a financing that covers, at least, EUR 1,500 per square and year; returning the parties destined for the promotion and functioning of children's homes not returned to the assembly; we are also talking about encouraging an increase in public places, especially for the least-favoured families, and finally we asked – and it is again asked in this case – to guarantee a sufficient share of scholarships and grants, as well as a presuppositionary endowment to cover the demand for better scholarships. Obviously, we will support these points, because we have already brought them to November. In addition to this, the third important aspect that explained to them, which was that of the teacher's pocket, is to bring some points back to this young man, but we have presented two papers, and I would like to thank the lady Niubó who accepted them, and these papers went precisely in the line of improving the teacher's pocket. We propose to guarantee educational pairs to all classrooms from zero to three years and to increase the number of auxiliaries and vets. That's very important; we're talking about a very small scoundrel. If there is only one person in the classroom and that person is looking for a child who has fallen or who has made a move on the other, the rest of the class is disappointed. We need more staff and we expect them to do us now if and if they're equipped with more staff. We hope that with this motion and what we presented to us in November the Government of the Generalitat is responsible for the education of children and we stop having educators in precarious situations and children who cannot access the Bressol school for economic resources. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.128.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. [[Some applause.]] Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, has the word Anna Simó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.129.0	Thank you, President. I will start at the end, and I will not repeat the explanations given by the same councillor. I'll start at the end, President, because I don't want to forget to ask for separate votes from points 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14. And I will start at the end to say: yes, of course; we agree to regain co-responsibility and sustainability in the zero-three by the department. But what we want is that, as the LEC says, it must agree with the local authorities; this – there is a mixed committee department – municipalist entities, in which the month of November was created a group of nursery schools, because it completes its work – do so, as the People's Party proposed in its motion that we will see before the end of July and, from these agreements, decide what is to be spent and what is not to be spent. Why, of course, how do they plan to finance this? Because, of course, they're talking about 1,600 euros per square and after arriving at 1,800, that's for course 17-18. The councilwoman donated 14-15 data, some 79,000 seats, donated. This gives between 126 and 142_million euros for course 17-18. What are we doing with these 126 or 142 million euros? It's more, they say they have to pay the seats, the support of the square; these 5,000 euros per square, that we today, the department has said forty times that they're all paid; but you say they're not, they're paid – they're 5,000 euros per square more. And the provision of specialized support staff and vets that they have accepted in the case of Ciutadans, that, too, we have to add. And the provision of halls of attention specialized in schools Bressol, this, too, must be added to it; and lowering rates, more scholarships and scholarships, this must also be added. Yeah, this is in the final seat. Not a social tariff word, not a social tariff word; that was, indeed, our goal. So, what are we supposed to do with these resources? Because you didn't make a low and high solo in the input and expense games: neither. So, how's that food? How will they do that? Because here there was an agreement, Together for the Yes and the CUP, of an increment of 520_million euros more respecting the previous assumptions in the matter of education. But what's left of it? How can you say we don't have education as a priority? How can you say that? And how could you say yesterday, yesterday, as Mrs. Arrimadas said at the control session, that there is no public euro destined for the Bressol schools? It's not true. Mrs. Arrimadas told the president. It's not true. There are, of course, Euros of the assemblies and Euros of the parliaments. The department made an agreement... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Clear... with which« ah! Is that what you're talking about? – with what« ah! Is that what you're talking about? A deal with the deputies; while there are no resources, you can pull forward. No one's been left out here. That it's the money we want? I'm sure he didn't. But I respect the rules of dialogue and the agreements with the local authorities; that since November the working group of the Joint Committee to work the Federation of Municipalities, Association of Municipalities, has been formed on all these criteria that we, as we have asked them to do. We buy them; we buy them all the mutual agreement on the issue of inclusive Bressol school, on the issue of routes, but we talk to the holders of municipal Bressol schools, right? Talk to him first. Why, of course... We can tell the mix that you work with study and debate priorities, that they are the ones that we have put to our task, that they reproduce a 90_percent of their youth, but add it "with the agreement of local authorities and with local autonomy, right? They can indicate and fix terms, as we say and propose: maximum, end of June, principles of July. But our group asks and we will give the margin because the department's work with them ends, because it is what it needs: the margin to finish this work. As was the case with the music schools, which we used to be captors of..., there's an agreement to the mixed committee, criteria, to put in an initial game, and criteria; the one that has to go up, this is also the agreement. But this is where they agreed on criteria, and this is where they agreed on the joint committee. That's how we understand it to work, because the mixed must continue to feel the space of taking consensual decisions and pacts between the department and the municipal world in all those terms that affect the educated world. The rest is to be aware, much as they say, that it will not be complete. You'll vote for things that know there's no resources to do it. And if not, all pleas are agreed, just as they will today agree to vote for this young man, where we live and where we put the resources. The faces they're doing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.130.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Simó. Next, to fix his position, has the word Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.131.0	Yes, thank you, President. And before anything else pleases Mrs. Niubo the presentation of this young man, whom we find very interesting. There has been talk many times and many of the schools in Brazil, to see if this is the final one. To frame the subject, we know that the Bressol school does not form part of compulsory education, we know that this is clear, but we also know that it is a foundational tool for developing the cognitive knowledge of infants, mainly of those who come from families in a more vulnerable situation. And, besides, there's a mismatch between the offer and the demand, according to the municipalities. That is to say, there is a territorial imbalance: we find municipalities, which are the warmest, which have more and fewer income levels, and they also have no places, and others have more. We also know that the ministry closed the door to the finalist parties it sent, we know, but it must also be added that the competence of the Bressol schools is Catalan. And we are also clear that funding has been used in parliaments and assemblies, that money must obviously be drawn from other parties, from very important issues too, and also in families, that each time they have seen their quotas increase more and that they have seen the price of Bressol school as an economic frontier to be able to access it. And, besides, we see that the Generality, we insist, does not prove that it is a priority, first, because in the assumptions of the department we do not find a single euro destined, but that, moreover, when there was a match, they did not have any problem to derive it to the payment, for example, of the teachership of the concerted schools, which obviously these people have to charge for their work, but from whose departure we bring the money show that they are the priorities of the governments, right? And, before this situation, what we are defending is to regain the Generality's responsibility in financing – we have said so many times – to work the social tariff model; our goal is to get to gratuitousness, but if there are not enough resources right now, we need to start with social tariff. To insist and remember, as it was also said, that in the Social Emergencies Plenary we approved a motion for a resolution for a game of scholarships for school children, and we also believe that it is important, given the importance of education and the equal opportunities that schools have, to rethink the contents and programming that we have now for children. And, all that said, we'll just say that we'll give him support, and so we'll vote in favour of all the points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.132.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.133.0	Honourable President, Honourable Councillor... Now a few months ago, Mr Puigdemont, the President of the Generality, went to inaugurate some infrastructure in Lleida, and said: "It is an objective and not ideological difference – and it followed –, "we manage better and it is a verifiable fact. With this path, therefore, we were ungrateful and a little bit of a jockey spoke President Puigdemont to inaugurate these infrastructures. He repeated that scheme of superiority that is so rife in the color of our home's identity consciousness. In any case, today we have an example that this is not always so, she advises, that not always, when we, from the Generality, manage things, we manage it better. We have a basic infrastructure, which is child education, which is an exclusive competence of the Generality. And here we have the story, and I come back to treures, the story of our success, the story of our success model, the story of how we manage better in Catalonia than in the rest of the world. [[The orador shows a graph to the chamber.]] It's the graph of the drop-out from primary school. And with you tending to memory and they love memory so much, I'd like to make a little bit of parliamentary memory. The adjustments began, as you see here, the year 2011, when they agreed with the PP. Yeah, it's just that before that, some time we made a deal, and that's all. Remember – well, since I don't feel my... – when Mr. Trias swore that they would never compromise with the PP? And at the end of a few months, they were back on the bargain. It's like life gives many times. In any case, we agreed on that match and lowered it to 50_million. What then did Mrs. Simó say? To which I will later appreciate his capture, but then he said: "Constellera – to Constellera Rigau –, "you leave touch and depth the schools of Bressol. Parliamentary debate, EUR 50 million. Clearly, then it is seen that Republican Left considered that they were still not fully funded and decided to leave it to zero – to zero – and externalize the financing. In those assumptions that were left to nil, the spokesman of the UPC, deputy David Fernàndez, said: "These assumptions are a declaration of war to the popular classes, and many more things. Well, I see that the independence process has an extraordinary ability to add to austerity and to the principles of liberal orthodoxy; I don't know, maybe we'll have to get close to each other, because, for which I see, the first Republican Left, then joins the orthodoxy of austerity, then passes the UPC, and everyone leaves the parties of the school to zero. And now it looks like the government is starting to rectify. And I don't know if it's a coincidence, but the Socialist Group Member presents a motion on children's homes, schools in Bressol, the PP Parliamentary Group does it too, and one day before, knowing what she sees in the House, the Councilwoman goes to TV3 and announces to us that they will recover the parties. So, it's seen that parliamentary action, whether it applies or not, is ultimately effective, because it forces the government to act and move's. We will support this young man, because he forces the government to rectify it, because he can no longer rely on his arbitrariness and because at the end – and because at the end – what is asked is the sensible thing: to recover the pre-crisis level of finance, to return the money that was stolen from the kindergarten and to review and adjust the results. So, very quiet. It will count on our support. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.135.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, for our parliamentary group, for our movement, at these times, for what it does to education from zero to three years, sense of doubt, equity in access, for one band, and the consolidation of the offer, for another, are two central and priority objectives. Our parliamentary group will support this motion for the Socialist Group. We have not put forward any proposals either, because we understand that it sets out the actions that are necessary to advance this fairness and this consolidation; that is to say, it responds well to those measures that can be undertaken in order to satisfy these objectives as quickly as possible. That is to say, from the point of view of the presupposing debate, that, at the time, as you must know, the CUP voted in favour of a series of items which were presented in this Chamber to the Presupposition Project which precisely intended to guarantee the financing of the schools in Bressol, from education from zero to three years, and precisely this theme did not prosper by the feeling of voting of other groups, not ours. But it is also necessary to take into account that our group, at the time, in the preliminary debate, has put forward a reasonable, and technically possible, and financially valid proposal, which was to create a cross-cutting foundation, a structural foundation for education, for teaching, which is provided not only by the education department but also by the whole set of departments, in view of the total priority that our group gives to educational policies, which included the possibility of adequate funding for education from zero to three years, which does not depend solely on the background of the education department, and which was not accepted by the majority that supports the Government. But in the third place, moreover, our group has proposed a series of fiscal measures, in the budgetary debate, which allows the funding of the Generalitat to be improved and which can be used to prioritise, among them, education from zero to three years, which were not approved either. Therefore, if you want to open the presuppositional debate, we will open it again, with a lot of taste, no problem, and we can discuss point by point without any problem on our part. We know that education from zero to three years is not a mandatory teaching area, we are perfectly aware, but we consider it to be an essential educational area, both from the point of view of the development of children's abilities and from the equal opportunities of families and especially women. And from the perspective of public policies, the measures to reduce the deficit and contain public expenditure on education, however much here there is a shared responsibility of the State, which has cancelled the parties destined for the purpose of this objective, is certain..., and here the Generality, the Government of the Generality has to assume all its responsibilities; at its time the department has decided to eliminate its financing commitment to this very central and essential spectre for the progress of the country and society as education is from zero to three years. In short, this scenario has been somewhat propitious or, more recently, extremely counterproductive for such a way as to combat the inequalities of access existing, both because of the family's own economic difficulties resulting from the crisis, and therefore its difficulty in dealing with quotas, and also, obviously, because of the fact that the net public investment in the sector remains, therefore, greatly diminished. But we have to take into account, and with this I will end, I will cover much of the intervention that I had predicted, because it would already be in the form of things that have been said..., despite this weakening of access to first-cycle childhood education, it is appropriate to state that the social inequalities in this area unfortunately have a structural character and are already before the economic crisis. Indeed, the socially least-favored children, with less social capital and family education, and who start a priori from a less favourable situation, are the least involved and participate in first-cycle child education. Therefore, we have two objectives. One, to achieve an educational offer of zero to three years of equality, equitable, inclusive for everyone, for all the population, but we need to put a special emphasis on ensuring that the most disadvantaged families are not left out of these opportunities, because we know that this, later on, has a clear and observable impact on the educational and educational evolution and on the equity and equal opportunities of these students. Well, for all this, and without extending'me, we give support to all the points of the motion, which, I insist, seems to us to point in the line suitable for so as to smooth this objective of fairness and universality in child education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.136.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.137.0	Well, thank you to all the opposition groups for the support. The truth, which, with the Ciutadans Group – the Ciutadans deputy commented – had presented two points, and there was no problem in incorporating them: one line of action to ensure the adequate staffing of support staff to meet special educational needs, the other intended to strengthen the faculty, and they have incorporated themselves. Together for Yes it has been more complicated, and, despite the effort and willingness of Congresswoman Simó to seek an agreement, which we always appreciate, it has not really been possible, because after years of failure we no longer believe that we are willing to compromise or agree on whether or not the joint committee. They've had time, they've had years of envelopes and they haven't. Or do we have to believe that after 2012, that we've been trying... that the assemblies were always trying, now we'll find an agreement? We don't believe it anymore. Nor do we find it necessary to draw up a director's report. They have the competitions, they have a political mandate approved in the Law of Presuppositions. What they have to do is complete and assume this co-responsibility already. And if they tell us, then, how do we do it? We'll get out of here. So why are they denying progressive tax reform, touching the IRPF, touching estates? That's what they heard with the People's Party! So what we're saying is that we don't want to announce that they will do it in 2018: we want them to do it now. And what we've done is accept its question where it is asked the State Government, so that it restores the presupposed imports to Education3 and that it does the appropriate management to make this restoration possible. We collected this and we were able to incorporate it. We're all working on it. It's a shame that when the People's Party and Convergence were partners, they didn't do anything to avoid it, did they? But, come on, it sounds pretty good to us that we're putting the state government back on this big game. So, in short, thank you all for the support. Let's hope this young man doesn't just approve, but he's complacent, too, and we'll be especially vigilant. And to say that I hope that, despite its contractual position, of Juntes per el Si, at least not votes against giving compliments to a provision of the assumptions approved for this year, because it is that, if not, I no longer know who will be responsible for completing the assumption. I understand that the opposition must not be the one responsible for completing the assumption that we have approved, or that some have approved. So, they don't wait to make a deal, I don't know what they do with the joints, they don't make us wait any longer, and what we need to make sense today is to return to the joints that they need, is to contribute responsibly to the financing of this key municipal education service for families, and, therefore, to complete and complete today. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.138.0	Thank you, Mrs. Niubó. We're calling it a vote. Mrs Simó, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.139.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.140.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.141.0	Just, uh? , referring to the last statement made by Mrs. Niubó, who says that she has run out of patience to wait for mixed agreements. What I have to say to Mrs Niubó is that I have asked her colleagues from the Catalonian Federation of Municipalities, Catalan of Municipalities, for the 2012 meetings of the Joint Committee in which she dealt with zero-three, and she will see that there was agreement. And that there was agreement and it was happening at each of these meetings what were the resources that were transferred from the parliaments. There was agreement on respect, and now there's a working group. Indeed, look at the acts of the mixed commission or talk to the people of the Federation of Municipis, Mrs Niubó. [[Some applause. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.142.0	Okay. A separate vote has been requested on points 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14. So, we'll vote... can these guys vote all together? [[Pause.]] So, we'll take the vote on these points, and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. All right? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote points 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14. The vote begins. Points 7, 8, 12, 13 and 14 were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Children's Education Movement was approved by 72 votes in favour, 58 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into universal access to children's education]] [[302-0130/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on universal access to children's education, presented by the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.143.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.144.0	Hope for a moment, Mr. Sanchez. [[Pause.]] Now. When he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.145.0	Thank you, President. We have presented and are presenting, from the People's Parliamentary Group, a series of initiatives to dignify, strengthen and enhance the first cycle of child education in Catalonia. We have put questions to the Government, motions for resolutions, appeals, today, the motion, and yesterday we have presented a new draft law, which will reach you at the time of plenary session, with the permission and the acceleration of the Bureau. Is this an offensive? In any case, ladies and gentlemen, because we think that the... – this is from Terminator – so we [[relays]] We think, ladies and gentlemen, that there are five reasons why we should take children's education very seriously. First, it is a reality that affects thousands and thousands of Catalan families who have been relegated by the Generalitat in recent years and who have to contort with their time and money to be able to take their children to school. We are talking about some 200,000 families or 200,000 children between zero and three years. Secondly, because early childhood education is a fundamental educational period, as the Counsellor knows, as the LEC recognizes and as we all agree. These are the years in which the foundations and foundations of life's development are laid. It is in this period that the foundations of cognitive competence, social skills, habits of autonomy, emotional balance, etc. are laid. Thirdly, child education is a privileged instrument for social equity and equal opportunities. This is also recognized in the LEC itself. It is the space where a child living in a socio-economic, more vulnerable socio-cultural environment can find those elements that may be lacking in their environment: social, affective, material – why not? , also, even feeding – and cognitive. Fourthly, it is a fundamental stage and a premise for achieving equality between men and women – a Member of Parliament on this issue spoke earlier. And we are fully convinced and bet that motherhood and fatherhood are not, in any way, an impediment to the development of a full, complete, accomplished professional life. And that is why it is essential that there is a good school for children, because, if not, it is really very difficult. Motherhood and fatherhood, and especially because of the historical and social context, motherhood is seen as a problem. And this has to do with the fifth reason why we also tabled this motion, which is that a good network of children's education is the premise and condition for overcoming the aging crisis and ensuring generational replacement. And why not? , let's add one: to pay tribute to the grandparents of Catalonia. They need a good system... [[Funnel veils]] – and grandmothers, thank you – they need a good child education system because they have the right to be grandparents, they have the right to enjoy grandchildren, and that without having to be full-time kangaroos, without having to see how they spend all day having to fill and cover holes in the parents' family organization. And, therefore, we would also like to thank you for that invisible work. [[applause]] of that generation that raised their children with great effort and is now raising their grandchildren. So, thank you very much. And, therefore, we propose to recover public investment. We propose something a little more humble than what the Socialist Group proposed: it is 50_million. You, Counselor and Counselor, as the Counselor of Territori is here, have been talking a lot lately about the compliance clause. Yesterday the councilwoman announced that the social tariff would be reinstated, and in the budgets of the Generalitat, the departure for school bressol. Well, voting these 50_millions today is the compliance clause that they're serious and they don't go for lights, counselor. [[Greetings.]] I therefore understand that they are going to vote, because what we are asking is for the 2012 budget to be fulfilled, which seems sensible and accessible to us. And finally, what we propose is to try to open the debate a little bit and also to try to ensure that in the coming years there are ten thousand more families that will reintegrate into the benefits of our child education system. We have modified the content of this last point a little bit, because it could cause a bit of hives in some of the checks, and in the end what we have proposed is that the Generalitat study how to incorporate, whether in the public system, or through scholarships, or whatever, ten more families in these coming years for the five reasons I have explained before. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.147.0	Thank you, Madam President. Bona tarda, another shot. I brought them in today, I brought some syndria. What happens if we throw these things down to the ground? Well, as nature is very powerful, plants will surely come out, and we may even have some syndria, especially if the earth is fertile, and the weather conditions favorable. If the earth is not so fertile and meteorological conditions are not favorable, surely some more or less elusive plant will come out. Infants, like nature, are also powerful and have an infinite ability to learn, but we would agree that not all environments are equally conducive to learning. In this sense, education from zero to three years is a very powerful tool to ensure equal opportunities for all students born in the environment they were born. Child education is a key theme for Ciutadans and, I've already commented on it before, so we introduced a motion in November. A motion that, despite having been approved with all the votes of the opposition and against Juntes for the Yes, is not being completed, and that is why we have two motions today that speak of the same subject. It's been a while since Mrs. Anna Simó told us that she was going back to donate money to fund education from zero to three years. All right. I'll say this: for example, let's stop holding the top ranks and the best paid advisors of all Spain, let's stop having more administrative duplicates than anyone else. I, look, an extra game that now remains, this one disabled for the Constitutional Court. See if we have resources to raise money and pay for education from zero to three years. It's a matter of priorities: either high school and repeat 9-N, or early childhood education for all students in Catalonia. We in the House have already carried the funding of education from zero to three years; now it has just been approved, too, of the PSC. And she said Anna Simó, Mrs Simó, who didn't leave anyone here. Well, ask the families that, since the joints can't charge all the expenses and have had to push the fees, they can't access it. And as long as he's left people behind. The children who can't access them, who are the ones who need it the most, who are in the least-favorable social classes, have been thrown away. And the women who, in order to take care of the scoundrel, had to leave their work. And as long as they leave the people here in Catalonia, because of their lack of sensitivity. [[Some applause.]] For what he does to the young woman we have now, Mr. Sánchez, whom we thank for presenting, like Mrs. Niubó her, to talk about the importance of child education, totally agree. I said it's one of the main concerns of my party. But we think we can't stay in a statement of intent, we need to go further. And I remind them that, while it is certainly an exclusive competence of the Government of Catalonia, you, who govern Madrid, can also do more, and we urge them to do so. Then we can't go on saying that nobody left here because there are the assemblies and the congresses. No, that's not enough money. We need the General to go back to financing. Let's hope that I didn't stay in an announcement just the day before today's two motions are in place, and that, in fact, the very assumptions that this is reflected in, and that the people who need it most can access this childhood education. Infants are the foundation of our future. We decide whether to throw these things on the ground, or if we make a garden, we know the land, we plant them when they're near, we pray and we take care of them. It's in our hands, and in Citizens we're very clear. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.148.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Then, in order to defend the slogan presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.149.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, then, the PP presents us with a relatively brief motion, where we begin to recognize the strategic character of the first cycle of childhood education, which we share. We did not speak out in the previous debate and therefore we will vote in favour. In a_second point, it does urge the government to present a board of directors. And here I tell them that we don't think it's necessary, absolutely. I also said before: the government has its exclusive powers, has a political mandate approved by the Law of Presuppositions and the only one that needs to be completed already with its responsibilities and contribute responsibly to the financing of this public education service, which is key in terms of fairness and school income. Therefore, to complete now is to return what you owe from 2012. The truth is that we don't know exactly what the People's Party is up to with this will of dialogue with the sector, but we're afraid that there's some will of concertation of nine private places, when the municipal schools, the public, aren't paid for years ago. We don't know, but in any case, so we don't think the development of a plan is the priority, but, as I said, it's recovery of that co-responsibility and the corresponding parties for the promotion and functioning of the children's lars pointing at point 3. And, in any case, what would be desirable would be to draw up a map of the supply of existing lllars – the privations, the privations of social initiative, the publics – in order to value its sufficiency and power, therefore, to analyze the territorial and social inequalities that exist, and above all to carry out a correct planning in the middle and long term with the objective, as it meant, therefore, to tend to the universalization of this education of the little child. And if it is, yes, to increase public places according to the map exist and with the need for schooling and demography. Therefore, what we want is co-responsibility in financing, a map of needs based on the offer there is and for proper planning. And that's why we'll abstain from this point. In general, we find that there is a lack of inclusive Bressol school for the young, but this has already been approved in the past, as well as other elements related to supervision, quality control of children's services that operate in a similar way, the playrooms, as well as the outsourcing processes of school management, or other deficiencies, therefore, related to the completion of the requirements set out in Decree 282/2006. But, as has already been said, I would like to focus on the point, on the last point, which we reject, therefore, of all: the secs; now reformulated into a transaction with Citizens and converted, therefore, into a menu of parties to increase coverage, help families to school; without making clear the title from there where they went to school, right? Therefore, we do not want to sec, we do not want to double or multiply aid to children deprived of social initiative, either directly or indirectly. The children's larties, those deprived of social initiative, have never missed them, these, they have never missed their departure, and we don't question it, at least while there aren't enough public places available, right? But if now it's 5_million euros, the PP proposes that it's 25, the half of what they're proposing for the public. And here we are totally in agreement, because we understand that it is a theme of model and background. What we seek from the PSC is to have enough public places of quality Bressol schools with a presuppositional game sufficient to ensure equal opportunities as well. Because of the strangeness, therefore, that there are vacancies, but there are many families that do not have the capacity to access it, and there is no departure from the Government of the Generality that is intended precisely for this. And, therefore, what we say is that we don't fall into the trap; that schoolgirl – whether you like it or not – doesn't have the ability to choose. They are a subsidy to the private school which, subject to some exceptions, continues to collect what it wishes and can choose students according to the purchasing ability. Therefore, we do not want to choose: we want rights; we want an extensive and high-quality network of public schools; we want to allow this free choice on the part of the parents, but to prohibit the choice of pupils on the part of the schools. And that means recovering a commitment to finance that the Government of the Generality should never have abandoned. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of point 1 and point 3 and point 4; we will abstain in the second and vote against this last point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.150.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. The words of Ms. Anna Simó, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.151.0	Thank you, Madam President. Fernando, sir... hello. To see, that of voting five against u, makes him hooked up some things... What does it mean to externalize the financing of the schools in Bressol, understand to externalize that they pay the congresses? What are not public administrations that give supralocal support to the gatherings? Don't you? That's not it, the deputies? For another band, these members assume the resources from the 12-13 course; the same amount that the 11-12 course was financed from the Government of Catalonia. Does that sound enough to us? Oh, of course not. The counselor said so. That's why there's a compromise to restore, to progressively restaurant the amounts that fit into the mixed committee, and that's why it was a commission, a working group in November; to be able to return departure. But, therefore, there is no opportunistic announcement here; in any case, on behalf of the department and Junts for the Yes, I say no. The initial motion of the People's Party consisted of four points. A recognition of the strategic character of zero-three; very good. One that urges the pact, before July 2017, with the institutions involved, to overcome the presuppositional deficiencies and guarantee universal access to the system of children; very good. Because it has to be agreed with whom you have no title, I understand; do not impose here' and two hard eggs. And why does it have the highest school fees in Europe is Catalonia, precisely. I'm telling you for those who said she's leaving people behind. Another thing is that you don't belong anywhere, or well where you belong. The challenge is to read the report of the Bofill Foundation and the same Greuges Syndic, but you can't talk in your MP about leaving people behind. I keep going. Another point of the People's Party, that regardless of what it deals with the institutions of the previous point, that in the presuppositions 2018 must have at least 50_million euros. I could have said any jiphras, but they said that. We're not doing well anymore. Of course, because if it turns out that at the previous point we have to agree as we do, that we agree, with the municipal associations, now here we say: "But regardless of what it is, you have to put up these calendars. Home, it seems to me that this is putting the car in front of the bugs. And then, already, to give teas about the families – outside –, which has fallen, happily, and also, as the councilwoman insisted. We have submitted expansion papers on these zero-three targets, and we have proposed, both to the PP and to the PSC before, discussions and unanimous agreements with the Federation of Municipalities. We also proposed, Mr. Sánchez, that the Government of the State prioritise the restoration of the presumptive imports of the Education Plan3, which Mr. Rajoy removed the year 2012, and this did not accept us. He didn't take this dream. Why didn't you accept us, Mr. Sánchez Costa, if so important and so urgent and so priority is zero-three financing for the People's Party? Why didn't you accept that there were the 60_million euros that there was for the three-six and 17_million euros per year for the zero-three that came from Zapatero and Rajoy? Why didn't he accept us, if it's so important? So, because one thing is what they say here and the other thing is what they do there. Because in the general assumptions of the State that have contradicted Mr. Zapatero's million-dollar plume words, that Mr. Arrimadas announced that he had agreed with Mr. Rajoy, therefore, it turns out that neither Mr. Arrimadas, nor Mr. Sánchez Costa, nor Mr. Albiol, nor anyone, have managed to place a match for zero-three in Catalonia. Where are the wines? [[Greetings.]] Where's the will when it comes to you? Not a euro. It's just that there wasn't a single euro. Now, yes, there is an increase in defence spending, in armaments, for the CNI, for the Constitutional Court and for the Royal House, hala! Zero-three, zero potato, as you like to say. Four hundred_Fifty_million euros that the Generalitat has ceased to engage in child education of the Ministry of Education, Mr Sánchez Costa. On the other hand, I would like to stress once again that we agree with the five parliamentary groups which voted for the motion before us and which will vote in full for the 200 or 250 million euro to make these motions effective; but we do not want to go there, as Mrs Sierra said, not: agree, the five parliamentary groups which will vote, of which the 200, the 200 and the 200 million euro and the fall. See if they agree to this. And I repeat: to see if they insist on the government of the state, to see if..., that they would have voted for it, because you have this game economically from zero to three. Because you, Mr. Sánchez Costa, must make the assumptions of the Generality as do the assumptions of the State, inflating tickets and not compleating a single time. Because Mr. Rajoy from the year 2012 has not completed the entrance forecast once; nor once. So, anyone can go to this, go inflating games for the school break or whatever it is. But what needs to be paid for is the Government of Catalonia, to which you spare these resources. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.152.0	Thank you, Mrs. Simó. Next, to fix his position, has the word Jessica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.153.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, let's go back to being in front of another young man who defends a proper financing of the Bressol school and which highlights its importance for the development of infants. Before I get into the concrete motion right now, I would like to point out that we are clear that it is a Catalan competition. Under the People's Party's priority, when it is well known, and it has already been said, that before the finalist parties of the ministry came for children and you were the ones who carried them in 2012. So it turns out, at least, paradoxical, and I'd ask for a little coherence. That said, when we analyze the motion we find two distinct parts. The first four points, which we share: it is necessary to give schools the educational, cognitive and equal importance of opportunities they deserve; it is necessary to straighten the sector; it is necessary to make a presuppositional departure, we need more resources, and it is necessary to increase the number of assistants and vets. We're clear about that. Now, when we get to the fifth point, we can't agree, and we can't be ambiguous. Well, it's an ambiguity that, if we go over the question that you asked fifteen days ago, it disappears; because you quoted like three times the word 'concert', and before the transaction that you have made accepting Ciutadan's message, you were talking about familial choices, and we can't share that. We don't understand why they don't talk about scholarships; we don't understand why they don't talk about social pricing specifically. No, no, You prefer to say economic support to families without determining how this economic support would be, because, in the background, what they want are family choices and to agree on schools. To put it another way, what you want is to extend the model of the concerted school that we have in primary and secondary and that is an anomaly throughout Europe and that, moreover, acts like the border for the families that have less resources, and extend it to the schools in Bressol. Therefore, during your inquiry he insisted on the need to talk about model, but he did not talk to us about methodologies, nor about pedagogical model; he only talked about financing model. And you are finding yourself in the generality's lack of responsibility at the time of financing the schools of Bressol the perfect alibi to also agree the schools of Bressol. Look, the check system is based... well, it's a copy of the vouchers used in the United States. And what is being demonstrated is that it favors competition between schools and acts by watching over those who have families that have fewer resources. Therefore, this point we will vote against. And, in short, we defend a school in Bressol that remains co-educational, secular, inclusive, of quality and obvious public. And before the difficulties to reach total gratuity, that we know that at these times the situation does not allow us, we would be in favour of starting to work in the line of social pricing. Concertation is not an option for us. And that's why we're asking for a separate vote from the five-point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.154.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.155.0	Thank you, President. Says the union of hardships: « Ensuring the right to education of infants from zero to three years implies facilitating access to all children who soliciti– to all children who soliciti– « and also stimulate demand– I repeat: stimulate demand; therefore, implement active policies in this sense– « of socially less-favored infants, who are underrepresented, families of whom often or only manifest their intention to participate in it. From this perspective, therefore, equity in access and consolidation of the offer are the main challenges posed by this educational environment. This is what the heavyweight union says, which I imagine is a common place, from the point of view of principles, values and objectives, assumed throughout the chamber. Therefore, claiming and planting this is not extremist eccentricity, it is common sense. And in any case, actually, yes, it's a priority debate. Priority debates do not only pass through available resources, which can be managed in many different ways; priority debates also go through ideological debates, conceptual debates, and effectively it is in this type of debate where the ideological and political differences between groups and different strategic projects are seen, which is healthy, healthy and necessary. For us, indeed, public education, universal and free for everyone, with criteria of equal opportunities, inclusiveness and equity from zero to three years and all followed is an absolute priority; it is not only a matter of available resources, because resources, I insist, can manage many ways. In this sense – in this sense – Mrs Simó, but also Mrs Sánchez, because of her references to the subject of the debate on the presupposition, I would like to repeat, I would not like to stress, but that our group proposed a structural foundation that does not depend solely on the own parties of the education department, but could be the master of the rest of the departments – so it allowed party movements – that placed education at the centre of our public policies. If this had been approved, which was not the case, it would have allowed much more resources to be made available for this so central and essential priority in the construction of our country. But it's also we have to tell you that we did the exercise of moving 700_million euros from the different parts of the budget project. The majority group that supports the government did not accept any of these changes. Imagine what it means to move 700_million euros. Is that technically possible? Yeah. Is it legally possible? Also. Is it financially viable? Also. Did he have a necessary political destiny and priorities? Also. Why didn't he do it? Because there was no political will, nor was there any need to improve our capacity for fiscal recovery. I mean, there were groups here that didn't want to raise more money than they have to spend money, among other things, on education from zero to three years. And every one I took on his responsibilities. [[Some applause.]] In this sense, and for what it does to the People's Party movement, we will vote yes to the first point; from the point of view of its objectives and principles, we share it. We believe that this will be a very important debate in the process that constitutes the new republic. And, look, I'm already grabbing the enunciation, huh? I have already taken the statement so that it is an important element of debate in the construction of the country we want. Because, effectively, we want a country with a model of public education, also from zero to three years, municipalized, public, inclusive, free and equal for everyone. We will also vote for the increase in vets, etc. – it is consistent with what we have voted on before – and we will abstain in the rest of the points, because, if it seems to me that I wander in the line of the motion we have spoken before and of these principles that – I myself – here we are exhibiting, for their expression of motility in the inquiry and today we believe that we are certain that, if we enter the detail, we will not agree. Therefore, we cannot deny the apparent purpose, but we certainly would not agree with many of the concrete measures and policies that you propose, and therefore refrain from doing so. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.156.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.157.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the good will of the various parliamentary groups, especially the Ciutadans Group, which has given us various reports and which we have reached enough agreements. And, why not say so? , also from the Group of Together for Yes, from its spokesman, Mrs Simó, and that we have been until the end, and from the department we have also had some contact, and there has been..., but in the end it was not possible to agree, but we want to aggravate, in any case, the good disposition. We also want to say: look, the People's Party can't be the tap that plugged its holes into its parliamentary alliance, I mean... ; it means that you listen to your partners, and, of course, what's not worth saying is: "When ugly things come, let's talk to the PP, right? Okay. Mrs. Simo, you have done pure and hard outsourcing; it is to say, you have to pay some things and they have said: "No, that is, that another pays for it. This is said to externalize and is also said to finance by substitution, technically. So that's what you've done. I propose, in any case, that in this Parliament we organize, therefore, a seminar led by Mr Rull, a text commentary; a text commentary of an interview he published to El País, which said: "To blame Madrid is not very upbuilding and impractical. Because, of course, they did... and more, it could add, and more, if it's the generality that has powers. Now, I will also tell you one thing: we learn, for example, from Mr Junqueras, to do side politics, and we have just voted..., which you ask us to ask our young man, to ask the Government of Spain to ask for more resources for this, we have voted, not our young man, we have voted for the PSC, and therefore we have just voted for it and we are asking for it. They have no excuses, therefore, to say that we do not want this, because we have just voted for it and have just asked for it. On the subject of xec, model america... – where is the...? He's gone; well, I won't be hurt about... –, American model, Nordic model too, because this is from Sweden – this is from Sweden. You... well, I don't know what it's like anymore, but your election program was IKEA style. So, in Sweden, there are choices for children's schools. Now, if it causes hives, we're looking for, and we're looking for some word that's more consensual because what matters to us is the object.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.158.0	Mr. Sanchez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.159.0	Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.161.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on points 2 and 5, you should go separately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.162.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2, 4 and 5. I'm sure we'll all vote for each other, because there's one left. Mr. Riera, did you ask for the word? [[Pause.]] A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2, 4 and 5. Therefore, we will vote on the five points separately. I think it'll be the most practical. Let's start voting for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 106 votes in favour, against and 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 62 votes to 60, with 8 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 68 votes to 60, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 35 votes to 87, with 8 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into depopulation in rural areas]] [[302-00132/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on depopulation in rural areas, tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.163.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillors... no, there's no way; well, there's no way. Well, in the first place, thank the papers presented for the deputies of the groups of the People's Party, of Catalonia Yes that is Pot, of Junts for the Yes... Thank twice the negotiation, the gain of trading. We've been looking for points of agreement, and I think we've all won, and at those points... in most of the points we've managed to find a point of balance. Obviously, Rovirola, Xandri, Hortènsia Grau, members of the Government, Javier Rivas and Sergi Saladié, also aggravate their predisposition. We have tried to make a motion not of those very long and inexhaustible, but try to mark, therefore, a full path: those central, truncated, important aspects that can make the Government, that can make this Parliament aware of what is the reality we live in, why this 60_percent of the small towns of Catalonia that are losing population from the beginning of the crisis, why these differences, the difference between living in Matadepera, that the middle of wealth is 48,000_euro per person, and on the other hand it is just over 14,000_euro per person and year. Therefore, they are reality that every day they are more polarized and that we cannot afford. And, therefore, I think I should take 'consciousness and try to intervene there. We have made a motion in which, among others, we have proposed to make an interdepartmental commission precisely to define, between the Department of Agriculture, that it has skills in rural development, and the same Department of the Presidency, to make a joint strategy of the different departments, in all those areas that influence... We have already said: sanitation is important; in unpopulated places, rural or without hospitals, so obviously it has a much more complex reality and needs adapted solutions. As the school, as the school transport to the aggregate nuclei, we have found a consensus text, as the dependence, as, obviously, the entrepreneurial or the encouragement of the industry. We have agreed to establish a space of debate and reflection with the different social agents and public administrations, in order to try to avoid depopulation and create a competitive territory, especially in rural areas; the socio-economic observer who analyses the territories that are most at risk of depopulation, the populations that can disappear, to know who are; to study a financing just for the small people, not so much the priority of the population, but the territories that they have to manage, fiscal and financial measures; to establish a plan of coverage of mobile telephone and internet connection that can be absorbed; to recover the part of the 60_percent of the presupposition lost from our natural parks; to promote rural tourism, which is the segment that has fallen most from the capital of the crisis and has not returned to the level of crisis that has not been achieved. And here, that now the Hortènsia Grau, with his vehemence, denied me, I say, we have accepted a joint message for the Yes in which he tells us that the Parliament has also been involved, that the Members can have a space of debate, reflection, an effective tool to talk about depopulation, through a sub-committee. We didn't accept it, but then it did seem with these negotiations that there was a lot of interest. And in the end, it's what we want with this young man: u, a touch of alert; two, that makes us open our eyes and that the government feels its way, that it will advise, that the Presidency sees that we have a country problem and, therefore, that we can manage this situation, and that it must be a starting point and find useful and agile tools. Do not create more burden of meetings, more bureaucracy, but, with what we have, than the departments speak between them, than the different advisors..., that someone coordinates it, that we have reflected with the Foundation of the Rural World, which has made many good reports. So, let's look at everything we have, all the public administrations that can help, all the departments of the Generality that have a decided role in fixing the population to the territory, and that we try, obviously, that it's complete. Therefore, in summary, Members, Members, Councillors, we will follow the compliment of the points of the motion. The government has to take on this young man as its own, it has to do his own. With this idea we have negotiated until the last point, and always day: we have a fantastic territory, diverse and plural, but it needs a clear project of progress, adapted for each person and for each territory. Thank you, MPs, MPs. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.164.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.165.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, in the first place, therefore, thank Congressman Ordeig for presenting this motion on depopulation in rural areas, right? Because this is one of the problems that we find ourselves today, a problem that we find ourselves today but that if we don't address it now, if we don't address it with the immediateness that comes, then this problem will widen over time and have negative consequences in the medium and long term. And this social reality that we find ourselves today and that we are discussing the framework between the objectives to be achieved in the next few years, and that it is no other than facing the demographic challenge before three key questions: the aging, the low birth rate and the rural depopulation, a problem that we have long, long ago, many years, and that we cannot solve, consciously, one day for another, but that we are committed to correcting this demographic evolution closely linked to economic activity and job creation. The challenge is of such magnitude that it requires a coordinated solution with multiple factors: from youth to youth, attention to the great people, passing through the difficulty to access the first habitation, support policies to families and reconciliation, etc. Migration to cities and rural ageing are the two people with the same problem and require different social policies. For a band, the increase of young people in urban areas is a major expense in housing, education, transportation and sanitation policies. And, for another band, the rise in retirements in rural nuclides leads to an increase in health and social spending, as many of these people will end up feeling dependent. In the face of the phenomenon of desertion of the rural environment, our great bet must be to attract and retain young people throughout the territory, to promote a balanced growth between densely populated areas and others with lost populations, and to promote the provision of quality public services to all citizens. This is the only way we can talk about a real territorial balance. We think that half the world's population lives in big cities, and Catalonia in this sense is no exception. You co-exist at once, this situation, with another phenomenon, right? , which is that a third of the municipalities of Catalonia have fewer than five hundred inhabitants, which we know as micropopulations. The inhabitants of these 327 municipalities arrive at 2_percent of the Catalan population, some 130,000 people, but, as I said, they represent one_third of the territory. We have an important disassembly that administrative reality seems to want to ignore, and it is that we do not have differentiated legislation. The municipal competences and obligations are practically the same as those of the territory. We've known this for a long time, but we haven't been able to deal with this fact in a satisfactory way. We have a territorial problem that needs to be addressed, so far, right? , and the proposals that we approve may be the starting point for achieving, therefore, this equity and equality of conditions of all the citizens of Catalonia, regardless of where we live. To say that we have presented a couple of papers, that I thank Congressman Ordeig, therefore, that he has accepted them. One, of formal character, isn't it? , which refers to the Idescat, so that when we talk about the current situation, we base ourselves on objective and real data. And I would especially like to thank him, therefore, for the most contingent and visible thing..., which basically starts from the population data of the Idescat precisely, but which tells us that the most unpopulated commas of Catalonia are the Pallars Sobirá, the Alta Ribagorça, the Pallars Justa and the Aran, commas that live from tourism mostly, but where the extensive ramaderia is another source of entrances of many families, rather than being a key element to achieve a true territorial balance. And then we ask that from the government, therefore, measures are taken, urgent measures are taken towards the situation that the mountain ranges are painted, before the attacks of the wildlife save, because, if not, the generational replete is not possible. I think it is a demand that has been made many times; we will reintroduce it into this movement, because we consider the generational replenishment to be a key element in curbing depopulation in rural areas. That's why we're asking for the proper mechanisms to be put in place to avoid further attacks. She'll advise, we'll ask her, please. And this may happen, you don't know, but sometimes it's about not reintroducing more bones, for example, isn't it? And above all that it compensates promptly for the ramaders affected by these attacks, because, if not, then, this relay that I am commenting on will not be possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.166.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.167.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Well, I think in the end we've all been able to fix this young man, but let me tell you something. You see, it seems to me that the situation we have as a country, that is, that most of the territory is rural, but most of the population is urban and not rural, huh? , which is a bit of a problem with this democratic territorial imbalance, it's not an accident. It's not an accident, it's not a biblical curse, it's the fruit of determined, urbanistic, economic policies that have taken place over a few years. And, of course, to attack this situation, to resolve or to improve this situation, with a motion hardly..., with a motion we can lay the path, we can indicate, but we hardly resolve this situation. I believe that what we need to do is to create material, legislative conditions, so that we can overcome this situation. To do this, accepting that we have a diverse territory..., and this is part of its richness and the wonder that in such a small country we are still so diverse, but that various must not mean being unequal, especially as regards the services, to which the citizens must have. And here's where we have to focus and make the policies. That's why we – that's... I mean, I like you already from here, right? , which we have accepted..., of the eleven items that we have presented, you have accepted all of us – we believe that, first of all, we need a shared diagnosis, a good diagnosis, with indicators, so that we all know what we are talking about; with indicators, then, objectives that are less or indicate where the policies should go; a theme that you have accepted and that we believe was basic, that it should appear, that it is the financing of the local governments. And here's the big... well, it's this issue we've got going on, that we don't somehow comply with the directives or the advice these European Union people have, right? , from third-party financing: one_third for central government, one_third for regional governments and one for local governments. This is a secular theme, and we haven't gotten out, but we haven't gotten out with the organization of local governments either. We tried last year's legislature, and, well, it's like the election law, isn't it? : they are like evil laws that in this Parliament we are not all able to agree. We understand that we need to develop this part of the State, but at the time of truth, well, it's going to stay in the tinter of this law of local governments. And it's necessary, because through doing this good legislation on the local issue we could..., aspects that you propose in the motion, right? , deconcentration, decentralisation of services, common, how we can offer better services... all this, therefore, if we have this tool, we could certainly improve it. That's why it's important that he's picked up. For us, too, the issue is important..., you want to "recover the economic game at the Fundació del Món Rural. We believe that it is not just the Fundació del Món Rural. Caldria..., because there are others here too..., for example, is the Association of Micropopulations, which is also working. I mean, recovering funding not just for the foundation, but for all those entities that are working with the rural world. Also important are all the questions related to this form of territorial organization, right? Here, it is to say, when we..., I think we have been able to improve the wording when you leave: "We must carry the servants, we must put the servants in these municipalities, because there are many great people who cannot move. I think maybe it's not so much to carry the services, but to organize this decentralisation better. I must also say that we, in the case of item 17, which you have already told me, but we will abstain, because we believe that this Parliament at these times is overwhelmed. And not just Members of Parliament; I believe that the Chamber of Deputies, the Judicial Servants, we are all overflowing with commissions, subcommissions, study groups... And above all, because there is one question: we in the Committee on Agriculture have approved and re-approved, in the general policy debate, the Committee on the Study of Transgenics, and we have not been able to put it in order! The committee on the study of transgenics has not put it in the way; it is there, parked. And, therefore, if we believe in others, I do not believe that there is any material time; neither space nor time. I get the idea. The concept seems very powerful to me, and it's fine. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , because the government makes its role and this commission would do its – I finish, president –, but I don't know if it's the best tool. In any case, we shall ask for a separate vote from a few points that I shall say later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.168.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. The words of Ms. Maria Dolors Rovirola, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.169.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, MPs, MPs, it is obvious that for a few years now, coinciding with the economic crisis, rural Catalonia has been losing people. It's a very worrying issue that we all have to deal with. When people leave the towns, what happens? Not only is the population lost, but it also leaves the territory unprotected, the camps are abandoned, the forest expands, with also a lack of regeneration capacity. Therefore, we have a country problem, as companies have already said that they have intervened before. It can manage the territory as much if it is protected as it is not, because it is the only guarantee that it can allow its development and generate opportunities that allow to complement the income necessary to its inhabitants to survive and avoid depopulation. Beyond those announcements we sometimes see that they offer incentives to live in the towns, what is to be achieved is to raise those who live and work there: pages, branches, small craftsmen, small industries, etc. Fixing the population, cramming, being able to live from what is produced or transformed and being able to enjoy basic services to live with dignity. This is very important: you serve basics to live with dignity. Therefore, we thank the Socialist Party for making the inquiry and for having the opportunity to discuss these points of the motion. We are grateful to the honourable Member for having accepted a number of points, and we have also made transactions of different points. I believe, humbly, that from now on, we have worked together to get this young man to come to terms to deal with the whole problem... and get better. Of the papers accepted in order to highlight... First, it will create an interdepartmental commission led by the agriculture council to analyze, prepare reports and propose measures to the government to halt the depopulation and promote the territorial cohesion of the country, with space for debate with participation of the administrations and the entities and persons expert on the subject. To coordinate the different government departments involved, such as Health, Education, Territories and Sustainability, Social Affairs and, obviously, Agriculture, and which propose measures to prevent this depopulation. According to the report, the work of the Fundació del Món Rural in the socio-economic observatory of the rural areas of Catalonia is continued and has the potential to prevent situations of risk of depopulation. The third point that I would like to highlight from these accepted points of view: to promote the modification of the legislation referring to..., the financing of local governments to guarantee their financial sufficiency. In this sense, to say that the governance council works with all the country's assemblies from a time ago to define what the local administration of the future should be like..., to elaborate the laws of the local world girls for the same local world. Four points: continue to increase the assumption for the management and promotion of natural parks, which lately, and it is true, had suffered a certain davalada. For this 2017 there are already some details for these natural parks. For example, the contribution to the economic autonomy of natural parks is increased to guarantee its functioning and maintenance with a contribution of 800,000 euros and an investment of 1,036,000 euros to invest in natural space and wildlife centres and to recover maintenance brigades, among others. Five points: the councillor, before three_months, has undertaken to compare herself to Parliament to account for the conclusions of the different reports of the interdepartmental commission and of all the points of this motion that will be approved today. Six points, and it's no less. We also thank the PSC for this new point of the motion that has accepted us to create a parliamentary subcommittee on rural development and territorial cohesion to follow up on government actions. The subject is complex and needs to be discussed in depth. Other points that we approve are already raised in the original motion. For example, recover aid for school transport to the municipality with aggregate towns without school. It prepares a decree in this sense. The Department of Enterprise also works on a shoal to boost rural tourism. And here I would also like to highlight the welcome-to-pay action that succeeds, with great success, to boost the interior and mountain environments. Together for the Yes we positively value the conjunction of how this young man has remained, but I have to make two points in which we have not been able to agree. Point 7, which cannot consider tax measures favourable to persons or business start-ups who are resident or tend to settle in areas at risk of depopulation, because it is not our competence. This is the competence of the State. I already told him that if I swallowed this word, we could accept it. And point number 8, which we cannot present before three_months a plan to ensure mobile coverage throughout the territory, because that would be a toast to the sun. These skills are held by private companies, which many times say they don't want to invest in these areas of the territory – and that's what we suffer a lot, a lot, people, all over the Catalan territory – because they say they have few people and, therefore, there is little negotiation. And, therefore, nothing more. Request a separate vote, in any case, on points 7 and 8 of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.170.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovirola. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Javier Rivas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.171.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies..., allow me to do them – intervene the last one has its advantages, and it is that I have already heard what all the others have said, and it has seemed to me a little read a script very well known and very resurrected, right? – a small account to illustrate this small motion. It's a metaphor, it's an anecdote. I lived five years in a village in Patagonia, a town that was founded in the middle..., not out of nowhere, but that was founded ex novo in a huge immensity, right? How did they do it? How did they manage to create a people, a profitable population, where people could live their dreams? With two tools: with politics and investment. How did they do it? First they took a train there, and they set up a station, left there to live the station chief with his family, and a gendarmes station, with their families as well. Then they had to build a school. They brought a teacher to attend to the children of the officials. I guess some gaucho who was approaching the cattle to the train made eyes on the teacher, and at the end they made a house together. For that the electrician, the plumber, the carpenter had to come... The carpenter realized that that was an area of great forest wealth and set up a sawmill, for which he brought four more people with their families. And so, little by little, but in a light step, there came a small shop, a canteen, the doctor, the hospital... well, the hospital cost a little more to get there. But, well, it was an evolution, it was a process that started with an idea, a political decision and an investment in infrastructure, wasn't it? This is how the South, Patagonia, or the American West were built, although today we are the people who really look like Indians, right? It was a moment of synergy, wasn't it? , that these systems may have already changed. Now we are in a reverse process: people want to go to the countryside to come and live in the city. Not out of whim, but out of necessity. I'm from the Aran Valley, Old Town. Vielha is the largest town, although it is a small town, but it is the capital of the region. But if we look a little bit at the slopes of the mountain, there is a rosary of small villages, such as Montcorbau, Aubèrt, Vila, Betlan, my village, which are very small villages, which are villages that are much more than a hundred years old, eh? Like this one who was lying about Patagonia, right? Why would people live in these villages? People weren't going to live there out of romance or sight. I was going to live there for work. Why? Because they lived from livestock, and what they needed was to be near their meadows to have access to the food of those animals, and they needed to be near the cornfield to protect them from wild boar incursions, didn't they? Do these small villages make sense today? It's not that they make sense. They are, they exist, and we have to give them some solution. We can't cheat on the loner either. If there is no minimum population threshold, services cannot be viable. So we have to deal with it very seriously. So far I'm not discovering anything new, I'm not discovering garlic soups. This is a fact finding, isn't it? But now it is when the big questions come to me and where the need for politics arises: What do we want to do? Do we want to keep our rural world like the Yogi Bear in Jellystone Park? Do we want a Catalonia in plan Barcino interior and later Barcino? Or do we want everyone to come and live in the metropolitan area and build a huge city with problems of mobility, pollution, quality of life? We have to do that reflection. I believe that the answer that everyone is going to give me, including the European Union Green Paper, is that no, that the population has to be distributed. But the only way to really distribute the population is to distribute wealth, to distribute work, and for that we need, as in the West, as in Patagonia, infrastructure, we need politics and we need economic engines. Infrastructure.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. In the last budget of the Generalitat we have reduced, to the Alt Pirineu i Aran, a 70_per_cent the item of infrastructures. Politics. Yes, it is true that there are a lot of foundations, observatories, a lot of entities, which in principle have to ensure..., so that then the Idescat is certifying that they are failing, that people are leaving, that people are not coming, right? And economic engines. The rural world has sufficient economic power. What needs to be ensured is that there is justice in prices and people—payers, farmers—can earn a living and maintain their home with dignity, without alms and Christian charity, right? You also have to think a little bit about the beyond. We have to start thinking about diversifying. We are no longer in an economy of synergies, economies of scale of industrial revolution. We're on the threshold of a knowledge economy, aren't we? That is, there will be companies that can be put into the rural world provided they have access to broadband, they have access to communication. We can relocate, but never disconnect us from the rest of reality, right? They say when you climb a mountain the top is half the way. I believe that in this motion we did not reach the top of the mountain. It's not half the way, though then we'd have to go home, right? I think it's a walk, a sneaker approach. But, well, welcome be, and that is why we will vote in full favour of it. We will be monitoring everything the Government does to ensure that this whole motion is complied with and not kept in words, but transferred to a useful policy, which is what citizens need so that the future is not a concern, but a hope for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.172.0	Thank you, Mr. Rivas. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.173.0	All right. Thank you, President; Bones. It is a young man whom we understand to have been generated from news that appeared in Catalonia Radio on the 21st of February that spoke about the problem of rural depopulation and that gives continuity and expands a young man whom the Socialist Group itself presented on March 21st to the Lleida Parliament. And we find ourselves in front of a young woman who is loaded with good intentions, but who is not at the scene of the problem of rural depopulation. And that's why we're going to do a technical abstention to the totality of this motion. It is a young man who proposes a follow-up of palliative measures with which we can more or less agree and who intend to put a series of pieces to a situation that needs a much more complex and structural focus, from our point of view. From the outset, however, it is clear that a young person who speaks about the rural world does not contain or make any reference to any measure related to the agroforestry sector. Of course, this entry is already playing a lot. If we are to solve a problem of rural depopulation, the interesting thing would be that we put in place measures related to the agroforestry sector, which is what gives meaning and explains the configuration and extension to our country of this rural area. The problem of depopulation and territorial imbalance is not a problem four days ago. In fact, since the recovery of autonomy and the competences in the area of planning of the territory, the same Law of Territorial Policy of the year 83 proposed the correction of the territorial imbalances as one of the three objectives that we had to settle with the country. The General Territorial Plan of Catalonia, which implements this law of year 83, laid down a strategy to overcome the territorial imbalances that basically consisted of carrying economic activity to these rural territories so that it helped to fix population and thus correct the imbalances. I mean, he wanted to bring the urban world to the rural world. And how did they plan to do that at the time? So, u, making infrastructure, basically career paths; two, making equipment, and, three, giving help or tax exemptions to businesses to settle in the rural world, and trusting that with the execution of these three measures the economic development would get to these territories and correct these imbalances. If now, thirty years in the end, we make a quick assessment of the degree of absolvement of the objectives of this Law of territorial policy, we agree that the territorial imbalances are not that they have not been corrected, but that they have increased. Some numbers: year 83, the two most populated communities in Catalonia represented 41.6_percent of the population; the year 2016 these most populated communities already represent 50_percent of the population. On the other hand, the two smaller towns, year 83 represented a 1.9_per_cent of the population, while year 2016 represented a 1.6_per_cent of the population; while the more villages have grown, the fewer villages have depopulated more. And, effectively, in the period 83-2016 there were a total of eight communities in the Principality that have lost population in absolute terms: the High Ribagorça and the Pallars Jussà, in the High Pirinius; the Ripollès, in the Gironine regions; the Bergedà, in the central regions; the Garrigues, in Ponent; the Priorat, the Alt Camp, and the Ribera d'Ebre and Terra Alta, in the Lands of the Ebre. It is fixed in the paradoxical case of the Ribera d'Ebre, which is the region with the highest per capita GDP in Catalonia, due to the existence of two nuclear power plants; but, in change, it is the third that accumulates the most loss of population throughout this thirty-three year period, almost 10_percent of the population that has lost this region, with nuclear power plants included. Another paradigmatic case is the Upper Earth, the region that concentrates the most wind power stations in the whole country, with thirty-five linear kilometers and one hundred and thirty wind turbines, and which is the region that has lost the most population: a 7.1_per_cent in the last four years, since the peak of 2012. A wind deployment that even the same regulatory decree, at its time approved for Convergence the year 2002 and executed for the tripartite, said textually that "wind power stations were an opportunity to contribute to the economic development of the municipalities, to fix population to the territory and to contribute to territorial rebalancing. And what we have seen is, precisely, that they do not contribute to economic development – businesses only pay 3.4_percent of the billing – neither fix people nor rebalance things. Thus, it is clear that wanting to industrialize the rural world, as the Pujolian governments promoted and the tripartites continued, shows that the idealized concepts of investment, GDP or economic growth are not always guarantees of territorial development or of fixing the population to the territory. They made a global assessment of the impact of territorial policy on the rural world, so we can come to the conclusion that it was uncertain the analysis of the diagnosis but it was wrong in the proposals. No more roads, no more industrial polygons, no more equipment, no more nuclear power stations, no more intensive macro-granges of bacon, no more wind power stations have helped to correct imbalances, to develop the rural world and to fix the population in the territory. Therefore, it shows a weakness with these policies of territorial rebalancing, and what is to bet on agricultural activities and low-impact branches, efficient forest management and implementation of low-impact renewable energies and community management. Only in this way, with structural changes, will we succeed in fixing the population to the rural territory and moving towards the rebalancing of the territory. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.174.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.175.0	Thank you, President. See, the two most critical groups are exactly the ones you haven't submitted reviews, huh? To say... it's okay to be critical, but we're precisely here to try to help improve things. He says: "Let's not go to the scene of the problem. And what's the point of the problem? Why do you think we're bringing this debate here? Listen, to my house, to the home of many of us here, the people on the march. And people don't leave us because there was no forest management, which also – which we also said to the Fundació Món Rural, as we said to the data of the Idescat, the INE, the Association of Micropopulations of the Generality..., to find the plot of the problem. That's why we're here. And we could have made a three-hundred-point motion, of all the departments of this government that have an effect on small people, that are a lot, so make an adaptation, and increase resources. And it didn't seem like he was... he wasn't the one playing. So, say, of course..., those who say: "No, this is a generic mass, do not face the plot of the problem. But they don't present a report, and they tell me that everything's all about forest management. Or organic farming. No, no, that's not part of it, is it? So, listen, I, happy to talk to you, we're bringing you here because you're talking, but we did hope that if we see those strategic sectors to fix people to the territory and each territory has its idiosyncrasy and, therefore, we'll see what it's like to invest in... So, man, I think what we're doing is giving a few debts to the government to say: "Listen, look at the territory, and those sustainable values and actions, that have potential, that make that territory more competitive, you put it there. Not all the way, not hospitals all the way. And then, for another band, she will advise... Well, to the deputy of Junts for the Yes, the Rovirola: we agree... – that I don't know where it is. Okay. We practically agree with all the report you've made, less about mobile phone coverage. Where the private enterprise does not come up, precisely, the public enterprise has to arrive... well, the public administrations. Where there is no mobile phone coverage, obviously it has to be the Administration that has to ensure that there is. And, to end, obviously, very sincerely, therefore, to the department – also, the Alba Balcells, of the department, therefore –, to reach agreement, as well as to the councillor; to tell her that she has a lot of work, that we will help in everything that she can, that she must impose herself and seek the complicity and compromise of herself president because all this comes forward and not only if the compromise of rural development or of the councillor, but also, precisely, of the president because it helps to create or draw the most profit from the differences between departments and their resources. Thank you, Members, Members, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.176.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. We're calling it a vote. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.177.0	For a separate vote on points 16 and 17.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.178.0	Mrs. Grau, can you vote together? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Separate votes were requested from points 7, 8, 16 and 17. All right? [[Pause.]] 7th and 8th are able to vote together? Yeah? [[Pause.]] And on the 16th and 17th, Mrs. Grau has already told me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Four together I don't know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's that I don't know the meaning of the vote, and, therefore, I don't know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, 7 and 8 together, 16 and 17, yes. Well, then, we'll start by voting 7 and 8, 16 and 17, and after the rest of the vote. The vote begins, 7 and 8. Points 7 and 8 were approved by 62 votes to 59, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 16 and 17. The vote begins. Points 16 and 17 were approved by 109 votes to one, with 21 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the depopulation of rural areas was adopted by 120 votes to one, with nine abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into social services related to the disruption of the driver's spectrum]] [[302-00133/11]] The new item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government about social services related to the disruption of the driver's spectrum, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they already know that they always ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence because Mrs. Roldán can start her exhibition. Mrs. Roldán, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.179.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies. I would also like to greet the president of the Catalan Federation of Autism, who is with us today. Thank you very much for coming and thank you very much for the good work that has been done since the federation. « I'm weird, I'm new. / I wonder if you are, too. / I hear voices in the air. / I see you're not and that's not fair. / I don't want to feel sad. / I'm worried about what others might think. / I cry when people laugh, it makes me shrink. / I dream of the day that's okay. / I try to fit in, I hope someday to do it. / I'm weird, I'm new. These are fragments of a poem that, as many have already guessed, was written by a ten-year-old with ASD, specifically with Asperger. I'd like to know who made him feel weird, who made him feel that way. Although perhaps the important question is not who, but what: What are we going to do so that no other child, no other person has to feel this way because of a disorder like the one we are talking about here today, the autistic spectrum disorder? Because this is a poem, but it is also a reality and it is a reality that is more and more frequent: one_of_each_a hundred children is within the disorder of the autistic spectrum. It is the most prevalent child diversity, more than Down syndrome, childhood cancer and diabetes together. Its causes are still unknown, although we do know that there are many factors that can cause a child to be more likely to suffer or develop ASD, such as environmental factors, biological factors or genetic factors. The priest? Unfortunately, the disorder is permanent today. However, experts agree that early diagnosis improves the prognosis of children with developmental impairments, which ensures a better quality of life, can correct child development and can also provide for deeper developmental impairments or more severe disability conditions. This is very important, because it should be emphasized that between 30 and 51 percent of people with autistic spectrum disorder also have associated intellectual disability. Therefore, this early diagnosis is very important. Symptoms usually occur at very early ages. At six months, parents can already detect the first warning signs, and it is from the thirty that symptoms are already more evident and can be diagnosed. But of course, do parents really know how to identify those warning signs? And if they identify them, do you know what these kinds of signals carry? Of course with the information that currently exists of the TEA I say no, but not because I say so, but because absolutely all the parents with whom we have spoken have told us the same: they lack information. And they lack information because the Administration doesn't give it to them, and that's when they come to give with associations like, for example, the federation that accompanies us today, when they finally get this help and this information they need. That is why it is so important for the information and awareness campaign to be carried out that we asked you a year ago with Resolution 84 of this legislature and that after a year we continue to wait. We insist here again. Good. A child with ASD influences his or her family as much as his or her family influences him or her. And that is why the main objective of this motion has been precisely the parents, the families. The Administration has to make it easier, it has to give more resources to the mental health centres for children and young people, it has to be able to guarantee that if a child is prescribed four speech sessions a month, he actually receives them and not receives one every four months, because here the order of the factors does alter the product. Let's make it easy for families: that they can leave their child in the school dining room with the rest of the classmates, that they can take him to colonies, that they can take him to extracurricular activities, but always with the guarantee that there will be a person who is specifically trained in this type of disorder, and with the guarantee, too, that his children will be safe in school. Yesterday my partner Laura Vílchez told us that half of the children affected by developmental disorders suffer from school harassment, half of the children, and often this happens because the children do not understand – do not understand – what happens to their partner. We here in this motion propose, for example, to create a character of the Club Super3, since we have it, with this disorder, so that the children assimilate and normalize the TEA. And what about young people and adults? The other day, counsel, I asked him what steps the Government had to take to calm the greatest fear of parents, which is nothing but to know what will happen to their children when they are not. The thing is, you didn't answer me. Well, he didn't answer to that and practically nothing, because the truth is he did a master class of thanks and congratulations that I no longer knew if he was at the Oscars gala or where we were. But, look, we do bring you concrete proposals. We want the offer of protected floors to be expanded because we need to ensure that they have greater autonomy; we want their capacities to be strengthened, and we want companies to be sensitized to encourage the recruitment of people with ASD. Look, people with ASD are known to have problems of understanding and communication difficulties, but it's maybe the ones we don't understand that are us. Perhaps it is we who do not know how to communicate with us in another way, and perhaps we do not understand that, just as it happens with puzzles, however different the pieces all fit together until creating the final image. I hope that this motion, together with all the amendments that have been tabled, will serve as instructions for the assembly of this diverse and plural puzzle which is and must be society. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.180.0	Thank you, Mrs. Roldán. To defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Raúl Moreno has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.181.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Constellera Bassa, we also want to greet the president of the Catalan Federation of Autism, who is accompanying us today in this plenary. In this Parliament we have often talked about autism, especially in the Committee on Children and Social Welfare. Today, this proposal..., this proposal..., this motion – I'm sorry – of Ciutadans. It's a mess, as Congresswoman Roldán said, which affects one of a hundred people and, in a very special way, men. The number of people diagnosed has increased over the past few years because we have more ability to diagnose, we have more eyes to analyze, to diagnose, to look at what behaviors are, who are the symptoms that make a child, a minor can have this disorder. Therefore, from little to little, during all this time it has been improving the detection of students, of people, of infants with ASD. The young lady who presents us today is a good young woman. I want to congratulate Congresswoman Lorena Roldán. I think she's a good-looking young woman, who, in addition, has many aspects of the lives of infants and young women with ASD, putting the eye, putting the focus on education, which is the environment, let's just say, where there's not everything, I'm also saying it. We have this tendency that the schools are still doing it. Maybe I don't get it all. Perhaps in this young man too it would be good to speak not only of the autistic spectrum disorder, but also of other educational needs or of other types of problems that children may have with the TDH, of others, and, therefore, to make the school also a place where there are professional formats for all this type of student who has some type of special educational need, but I believe that, in general, this young man went in the good line, not only for what we give in this Parliament, for which we think the parliamentary groups, but also for what civil society expresses. More recently, on World Autism Day, celebrated this weekend in Catalonia. It would also highlight the need, in this House, to provide educational centres with more resources and a better professional training to attend students with AET, which improves their situation in the school environment, which can be held up, and at times from storms – girls in some cases – to remove them, as the Member said, from class, to leave them without extra-curricular activities, to have difficulties to take them on excursions, those things that do nothing but drive them from a normalized environment and, therefore, to strengthen the specialized staff so that this is possible. Also a good coordination between health services, social services, education that guarantees comprehensive care for children with ASD, which promotes their employment and social inclusion, which is a very important issue. More places of day centers, more places of residence, more opportunities also for families through Breathing Services, and sensitizing the population of the existence of this disorder, because ignorance is the best weapon of discrimination. My group wanted to contribute to some of the issues that have been dealt with, some of which have been accepted, which are in four areas. First, on the issue of increasing frequency to the attention of child and youth health centres. Certainly, the government has made a presuppositionary increase in these last assumptions with the whole issue of mental health, child and youth health centres, but it is only a question of money. That is to say, what we are saying here is that at these times there are infants who are attending psycholegic, psychopedagogic, speech-language, thirty, forty-five minutes, by luck, one time a week. And we believe that more sessions should be held, that these are not enough, that treatment is very little and that families often have to supplement it with a private offer. Therefore, let us hope that these resources will go precisely for more staff, but also because they can be treated more frequently and, therefore, in some way, also, as far as possible, lower the waiting lists, which are important at these times. Continuing training for professionals; continuing, not just a course at a point in time, but continuing with the themes of autistic spectrum disruptions, but also others who do and who are present at our schools. And also inform the families, often taken off when up a diagnosis of ASD, because without information, without a line to follow, currently the families are found unprotected because they do not know the resources that are needed, that there are at these times because they can be used. In this sense, I want to fill in a need that we have as Parliament to legislate in such a way that families who are free to sort out the treatment that they consider appropriate for their child from true information, or as a minimum of all information. The deputies and deputies are neither experts nor experts on this subject. Therefore, we do not have to bet whether a model of cognitive, behavioral or psychodynamic attention should not be part of a political decision, but rather of a decision of the families taken after having all the information at their abst. I'm done. We have tried that in our discussions..., try to narrow down some terms; it has not been possible, but we still believe that a good job has been done and, therefore, we will vote in favour of this young man who introduces us to the Ciutadans group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.182.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Ms Gemma Lienas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.183.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, MPs, MPs, president of the Federation of Autism, who accompanies us, the disruption of the autistic spectrum, the TEA, has a neurological, neurobiological origin, that is, it originates in the brain, in neurons and neuronal circuits. The AEA is little known but the prevalence is very high and it is increasing. The statistics of the United States or of the Scandinavian countries, the most advanced in diagnosis and treatment, speak of a prevalence of a creature every sixty-night; in Catalonia, of one hundred, which does not mean that we have less, but we diagnose them worse. It is considered that there are more children affected than there are children, but this statement can surely be questioned, since, as with many illnesses and disorders, only the symptoms presented by the children have been categorized, and now it is beginning to see that the children's symptoms differ. That's why we need to continue investigating our hospitals. People with ASD have a very different symptomatology, but they share common characteristics: difficulties in communicating, in establishing social relationships, have a rigid thinking and have restricted interests. These characteristics vary from one person to another depending on the degree of intensity and also the intellectual level, but in any case, the evolution of these people depends above all on an early diagnosis and an effective therapeutic approach. People with ASD, like everyone who suffers from mental disorders, often suffer from stigma and, sometimes, is caused by ignorance. That is why I now want to do a damage that evoked the drawing that Mrs Roldán showed us in the past plenary. People with TEA aren't stuck in an ampoule, but they're victims of our inability to get out the way we understand the world and try to hear theirs. That's why I want to teach you this drawing. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] This drawing is from a book that says Mary and I, it's from the illustrator Miguel Gallardo. Miguel Gallardo has an autistic daughter with whom they come across drawings. The girl did not see him, and in this picture the father went looking for him and said: "Mary makes me pessic. But Miguel Gallardo has come out of his ampoule and has established communication with his daughter, and I understand that these fish that he does is his way of demonstrating the emotion he has to see. The drawing disassembles two harms: that of the bulb and that of the gel ices. Autist people are not gel; they do have feelings and emotions, but they show them in a different way from how we are used to what we are not TEA, and we often don't understand them because we limit ourselves to being within our ampoule. To put it another way, one day we understand that they think and see the world another way, that day we start to change our way of looking at them, and that day we can establish a communication. And this is extensible to all mental disorders. Maria Gallardo, for example, repeats names, the names of the people she knows, and even of some who have already disappeared from her life, and says the father that so Maria makes sure that everything is in her place and that the world is a safe place. Maria's father made an effort to get out of her ampoule and to hear her daughter. This different way of thinking about the autistic people takes advantage of some companies that play computer games contracting only people with Asperger syndrome, which is a form of autism, so that more imaginative solutions are ensured. And it is that, Members and Members, difference is an opportunity to see the world from other points of view; it is indeed an opportunity. Our group has been working on this subject, the TEA, since the beginning of the legislature. The September of 2016 we registered a motion for a resolution that unfortunately we have not yet been able to vote in the Committee on Children – and it is that Parliament's times are sometimes not too fast. As it is essential for us to continue to move forward in the care of people with ASD, we felt that it would be better to have the generosity to give up our motion for a resolution and add it to our minds in this young man. Citizens did not accept any of us: the adaptation of the school curriculum, the elaboration of specific articles in bullying and sexual abuse protocols and the creation of a pilot test to adapt middle grades. On the other hand, they've been subsumed in some of their points. They did not accept, however, the points which incorporated the reference to always use, in diagnostics and therapeutic approach, the criteria of the international guides of good practices based on scientific evidence, which are the ones that serve the majority of European countries, the United States and the Spanish State, except Catalonia, and which are the ones that call for the Federation of Autism. For this reason, we will resubmit a motion for a resolution with the unaccepted points. We will vote in favour of most points of this motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.184.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra", of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.185.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, the president of the Federation of Autism who accompanies us, welcome. The companies that preceded me have made it very easy for me to work and, as I only have five minutes, I will try not to drain more time from the account. I want to thank Lorraine first. Lorraine, you've done an important, great job. I think we got you a lot, but at the end of the day we managed to have a young man, so a little better than he was initially, right? We also appreciate you being able to collect our papers, most of them, and say yes, that we have got a young man who pays the penalty to vote for it, and that some of the introductions you've made in the end may not be shared by a hundred per cent. But it pays the penalty to vote for it. I'd like to take a look at two points. First say one thing. Companion Raúl Moreno has resolved to talk to me, to remember something that is obvious, that children and children with TEA are twenty-four hours of the day and that, therefore, it is all day long that they need help, support, support and attention. That said, from the colonies to the school, to the walks, to the..., it's the twenty-four hours of the day, they don't have hours. I would like to reflect on point 4 and 5, which speaks of the importance of ensuring specific training. Why? Because one of the questions asked of the young person is that the Teaching Department counts on resources, and, obviously, the Teaching Department has to count on resources to deal with the specific training of the teaching teams on TEA. Now, I'd like to think about what kind of training we're talking about, because in the last few years, and I'm sorry that there's no education counselor – there's the Low Counsel, I can explain it later, please – the education department has promoted some initiatives of this type, of educational type, offering only courses in cognitive conductive techniques. And this, unfortunately, is a silent imposition in a certain way to approach autism for which there is neither professional consensus nor between the educated world, and leaving to the center an autonomy in the decisions of this type which are cynical and which should fall from the hand of the criteria of the health professionals dealing with the treatment of the child. Therefore, if it is a question of training the teaching staff to ask a training that is done within the centre, the immediate question that arises is who will do this training and from what criteria will do this training. If what we're talking about is that the teaching staff come out of the center to do this training, then we could talk about offering specific and continuous training from all those training offers that already exist to the entities and institutions that deal with this disruption. For another band, I would also like to reflect on the concept of inclusive school, it was not the case that, from the quick reading of the young person, it can be deduced that it was included only and only possible in the ordinary centres. This deduction would mean less work for special schools, where there is no doubt that what they claim, as is the case with any ordinary school, is that the child, the child, the girl, the girl, the girl is best placed in the bond with the others. This is the included dump, which allows you to include 'em in the link with the others. And that's what you expect from any educational center – ordinary, special, specific. Because, if you want to focus your efforts solely on including children and children with ASD in ordinary centers, we could run into various problems. First, because it is quite certain that, for some children, many, the majority, with TEA, included it in an ordinary center is possible, but it is also repeatedly demonstrated that for some others this is not possible, even in those schools where it is counted with a support unit in special education. Second, there are children and children with TEA who can't make a place, who can't find their place, thus increasing the anxiety of having to endure a context in which the result..., of all menacing, and failing all intent of the teaching staff. Third, special schools cannot be converted into the last resort for children and children with ASD. And this option is often transmitted from some psychopedagogic counseling teams, offering special schooling only at the last instance and at the last opportunity, and it doesn't always have to be that way or that way. The formation of special education teachers, the proper functioning of special education schools, the raties, the classrooms of these schools turn out to be for children and children with ASD not the last resort, but, many times, the last, the most successful and from the first hour. On various occasions, families are found that during most primary schooling, children with ASD and their families are forced to prove the ordinary school until it is verified that a special school is really appropriate. This causes a waste of precious time and a loss of being more accurate and more focused. I sincerely believe that these problems make it clear that we need to debate what we mean by inclusive school today and how it should be for those children who refuse to enter all education and who demand therapeutic attention so that education can have a place and remain green. Thank you for including me in motion 18 and 19. And they ended up saying that you finally have to recognize and guarantee the right of parents and mothers to sort from the diversity of therapeutic proposals that approach that fits...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.186.0	Lady Serra...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.187.0	...better with his...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.188.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.189.0	...self-sensitive at the time of facing the instability of his children with TEA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.190.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words "Mrs. Magda Casamitjana", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, are followed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.191.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Counsellor, Members and Members... Thank you, Mrs Roldán, for the effort and willingness to get through many of the papers presented for our group. And thanks also to Congresswoman Lienas for sharing first-person experiences and coming to a great deal of agreement. We have insisted on all points, above all, and on which the Member of Parliament, Gabriela Serra, was speaking now, on the issues of the education system, the whole education system, inclusive and community, and also talking about special educational needs and, in general, associated with the ASD, of course. Many thanks to the IR, and many thanks to the Lower Councillor, to the Education Councillor and also to the Health Councillor. I have to tell you that interdepartmentality works; therefore, one of the things I should like to say. Some considerations and positions on some points of the motion. Congresswoman Roldán began saying: "What are we going to do? Well, so autism is for life, it's chronic – twenty-four hours, they said. They're there and they'll always be there. They're not stuck or locked in an ampoule, but they are and will always be one more in our society, living in ours, too, day by day. That's why what we've done and what we want to do in the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for the Yes and the Government... and we're very conscious of it, we want it to reflect on every aspect of the person's life. And, in this respect, the Government places, you know, efforts, resources and real will. As you know, there is no single type of autism, there are many causes. We would have to live with the TEA in the same way that every one of us lives with our own limitations, with our ways of being and expressing, many times, our feelings. We are all very unique and different and special; but, still, we must keep in mind and never, ever, ever lose sight of ourselves assimilation and incorporating also the few, the least known, not only in the classrooms, but in all our lives. " What have we done? So, in the 2012 Comprehensive Care Plan, it is clear and consolidated that all situations from comprehensive care, with the intervention of different teams at the same time: health, education and social. " What are we going to do? It's not always easy to apply your wishes, you know, but we won't give up. We have not yet been able to see how we adapt to perfection the incorporation into the world of work or the world of work, nor how the world of work can be made more flexible to accommodate autistic people and, above all, other similar people. " What have we done? So, we also made the integral plan of mental health and addictions, that the other day I asked a question, and, therefore, I know of memory, but also the Department of Health made an increment of historical assumption that primarily addressed the better attention to the child or youth population with mental disorders, prioritizing attention to the disorders of the autistic spectrum. " What have we done? So, there is also a resolution, of March 17, a lot and a lot of days ago, that establishes the elaboration and implementation of the coexistence project – thanks for incorporating the theme – in the educational centers, within the framework of the center education project. " What are we going to do? We still have a lot of work to do. You're absolutely right and, more than that, in these matters we can never end. The prevalence of ASD has increased in recent years; yes. The causes of this increase can be attributed to many factors: the possibility of a better detection, perhaps, by both health professionals and families. At the same time, there has been an important breakthrough in the techniques of diagnostics that make each time there is more. Since the Junts Parliamentary Group for Yes, we understand that everyone has and must have their space. I already insist that we resist talking about minorities; for a very few, for us there are many, always mass. The scientific community each time more strongly begins to describe ASD as a form of being in the world and not as an anomaly. Brain function is neurodivers and this neurodiversity conditions that humans perceive, think and are related to different forms. From the Juntes per el Si and el Governo instem, from here, not only to the public and private administrations, but to all of us – to all people, individually and collectively – to put up the batteries. We need to feel participative and responsible as well as what happens to us around us and especially with these people who cost them much more to live than we do, and many times the coasts and they say that with enough work they survive. They're asking you all and everyone to get us more involved. We look much further, we do not follow only simple spectators in these cases, we are still citizens, with everything that the word entails. We commit ourselves, on behalf of my partners and the government – that's the way things are – that we will make a society, all of it, much more educative, without forgetting anyone, not just at school and at home, but every second of the day. We incorporate, therefore, deputies and deputies, from here too, all the ways to be, to be and to feel. We've done it and we'll keep doing it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.192.0	Thank you, Mrs. Casamitjana. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.193.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, members of the public who accompany us, well, I, before starting my intervention to talk about the motion in concrete terms, I want to refer to an article written for Abel, who seems to be a child with TEA, and who says the following: "The Catalan public health has to take a conscience examination and wonder why a large majority of couples and seas with people with TEA are calling for a change of model, because the current is clear and notorious that it does not work. We can't let the future and quality of life of our children – says the Manel's father – "just because the parents can afford a treatment in private centers, especially given the precarious situation of many families because of the crisis, means a double defence. Our children have the right to appropriate therapy for their needs and the Catalan public health has the right to provide it. The liabilities of health and political institutions shown over the last few years are alarming and indecent, much despite the complaint and the magnificent work carried out for the associations of affected couples and seas. For democratic quality and social justice, this cannot continue. Parents and mothers must raise their eyes and make all the sound that is necessary to change this unjust model that marginalizes our children and leave them from a fair and equitable society to which they have much, much, to contribute as citizens in full right. We need more therapeutic resources in centers and schools to make inclusion a reality and not a nice slogan to put in the documents and institutional declarations of good intentions. Tanco comets. Well, given this thought of a father with a son with TEA, I think he's pretty clear-cut, right? I want to get in touch with the young lady who is here today with Congresswoman Roldán, since I think Abel, therefore, speaks clearly and touches two fundamental rights, right? That they are the salvation and the teaching... so we see that they are reflected in this motion we are debating today, right? Because talking about ASD, then, supposes talking about a transformation that has to be addressed from a global view; a global view and from a cross-sectional point of view. And you've already said it to all the deputies, haven't you? It affects the salvation of children and young people, their education too – we must take into account, therefore, everything that refers to their environment of happiness – and, in a very direct way, to the family, to the family, to the family, both from an emotional point of view and from a follow-up as well as from a point of view of care and resources. That said, to the realms that existed before, health and education, we can add to all those aspects that can improve the lives of people who see and suffer from it: the types of homes, day centres, residential centres for minors, wards, etc. And this young lady, Congresswoman Roldán, therefore, touches all these questions. And, therefore, I must say that we will give it support, it could not be in any other way. But I do want to make it clear that he hurt us, right? , that we regret that the emena of the Lady Lienas, of Catalonia has not been incorporated, Yes it is Pot, therefore, that asked to work in a coordinated way with the guide of international good practices. I think this point, then, could have been perfectly incorporated into the motion. And, for that matter, we regret it. That said, I want to make special reference to two points in concrete, right? One, the one that refers to the deployment of the programs' servers Breathe addressed to families with TEA, because... And the question is, why can't they apply, right? Why can't some of the services in this program be assigned to patients with ASD, right? It's a service that I'd accompany and support families, so they can't do what we want in situations that overcome them. It would be very positive that the Breath can be extended to this collection. And another place I think it's important, too, isn't it? , which has also been dealt with, which is the issue of awareness. Well, they're calling for more information campaigns, aren't they? , to know before we find each other, and above all that it is possible to deal with all nature. And, finally, I want to reflect, that it's a society that decides what's perfect and what's not. It's a society that has lost respect for life in general, isn't it? A company must measure itself by dealing with those who need the most help. This is the true indicator of the quality of this society, as we understand the value of life, because when we dared to score our human suitability on the basis of perfection criteria we became something less likely. I'm done, aren't I? I think it's fair to thank the different associations dedicated to improving the lives of people affected by the ASD and their families, all the task you are due to term and many times, therefore, lack of resources on the part of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.194.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Then you have the word Mrs. Roldán to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.195.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all I want to thank all my colleagues and give them back this thank you that they have sent me, because, truth, it has been very easy to work..., it has cost a little bit, but there has been very good understanding everywhere. We have had a few days of intense negotiations, but in the end I believe that the issue deserved it and that we have really been able to reach these points of agreement and consensus. So thank you very much to all and thank you very much for the amendments tabled, which I think have therefore made the text even more complete. With regard to some nuances that have been commented on, for example, the deputy of the People's Party and also the deputy of Catalonia were now commenting on, yes, it is Pot for some amendment that has remained in the tinker. We really find this document, which is a document made by the Department of Salutation, by the Agència d'Informació, Avaluació and Qualitat en Salut, which speaks precisely of the autistic spectrum, and therefore we believe it is the guide that is now in force. To say that we fully trust Catalan professionals, who do their best to treat people diagnosed with ASD every day. Another little thing, too, regarding the theme of the drawing that came out the other day in the interpellation. I want to claim that this drawing I took from an exhibition that had made an autism association of Murcia. And, well, I think art has the power, then, that each one, when he sees a play, interprets or sees different things, right? We didn't mean that the children with ASD were isolated in a bottle, but what we wanted to say was that their abilities were there and they were just waiting for someone to rub that bottle, for someone to give them a chance to get out. Anyway, I think it's an anecdote. To reiterate – to reiterate – that we are very satisfied and very happy with this motion. And I believe, as the slogan of the campaign that we all were able to share last April 2nd, of awareness of autism, I believe that we have all managed together today to break a barrier in favor of the TEA. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.196.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Call it a vote. Mrs. Casamitjana, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.197.0	To vote separately from points 5, 8, 10, 17 and 18.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.198.0	Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Lienas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.199.0	We also ask for a vote that is exactly separate from these points. And yes, they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.200.0	All right. [[Pause.]] Separate votes have been requested from points 5, 8, 10, 17 and 18, which can be voted together. Therefore, we will begin by voting on these points and after the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, we vote points 5, 8, 10, 17 and 18. The vote begins. [[Widow's remorse.]] We're interrupting the vote. What is it, Mrs. Lienas?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.201.0	There's a point that you couldn't vote together. I'm having a hard time, huh? It was the 17th. I can feel it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.202.0	So we'll vote all the less on the 17th, after the 17th and after the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on. All minus the 17th. The vote begins. Points 5, 8, 10, 17 and 18 were approved by 68 votes to 62, with no abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Lienas, is there a problem?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.203.0	That he didn't understand what he was voting for, because, like he said "all the other points less on the 17th, we didn't know if they were all or that part that we said... And, therefore, my group had a... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, you must have said it at the beginning, but not when the vote started.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.204.0	I'm having a hard time, huh? But I had said all the points and when you said on the 17th, we would all vote, that it was 5th, 8th, 10th and 18th, minus the 17th. Perhaps I should say: "5, 8, 10 and 18, no? But anyway, I understand that... it tastes hard, huh? Now we're going to vote point number 17, Mrs. Lienas – point number 17. The vote begins. Point 17_has been approved by 61 votes to 60, with 10 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on social services related to the disruption of the driver's spectrum was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the commercialization of life and benefits and common services]] [[302-00135/11]] The twenty-first point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the commercialization of life and of common goods and services, presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant" has. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.205.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. Two weeks ago we told the vice president, we said here that privatizations and outsourcings give rise to fears and suppose loss of sovereignty. That's why – despite our conviction that this is the result of care and loss of sovereignty – we have raised a young man who wants to fill different areas and above all to fill the capacity for study and analysis to prove whether what we are planting, and not just ourselves, but a lot of other people who have been working for the recovery of public services or of common goods..., because we can analyze and work together. And it is that, in addition to us, we have also set up, through these externalisations and privatizations, a new poor wage with a low level of poverty that is taking advantage of the minimum interprofessional wage. And that's why we also put in place measures and proposals for public procurement and ensure that this permanent fragmentation of public administration and the generality starts to put limits on precariousness and starts putting topalls on things that should not be in question, such as labour rights, and therefore decent wages, decent work days and, ultimately, life at the centre and not the economy at the centre, and thus labour exploitation to get the maximum benefit. There are many points, some of which are petitions that we do to the government of things that are already in myths, that in the background what we say is: do it of all. In fact, there is a point where we ask for the analysis of which management exists in all the municipalities of Catalonia and the price of this management in water. In fact, on the ACA web page there is already a list of 600 municipalities; 600 of 948, which we ask is an effort of 348 more. And it is that, in addition, if we then look at this, that we will already give ourselves only of the 50 municipalities where the water sub-administration – of 50 – is more cheap, 48 are of public management, directly of the assemblies or by public enterprises – of 50, 48 are of public management. Of the 50 municipalities where it is more because the sub-administration, 44 are privately managed. Of the total number of municipalities in which data are available, 281 are directly managed and 330 are indirectly managed. And if we look at the middle of the administrative price, we see that the middle of the public administration price is 0.74 and the middle of the private administration price is 1.13. In fact, we could also look at this private management in the hands of whom you are, and see how Sorea manages 145 municipalities, and Agbar manages 23; but, of course, she manages the main ones, where there is more concentration of inhabitants. Therefore, in the fund manage almost what would be 3_million inhabitants; Agbar, a practically absolute monopoly. And, more than that, then, here... it's funny to look, isn't it? , which Agbar manages. Basically, the metropolitan area, except for one municipality: the Prat de Llobregat. The Prat de Llobregat is a municipal public enterprise, and the price of water sub-administration is 37_per_cent more cheap than all municipalities, which are Agbar. Public enterprise, 37_per_cent more cheap. And, moreover, it is there, like Gaul, resisting Agbar's monopoly; but, moreover, it is more barred. Therefore, this motion for an objection, and the question, was to put on the table a reality that has been working for a long time, but more and more, where there are beginning to be numbers where this is demonstrated: that the management of the common good, if it is done in a public way – and, therefore, preserving this sovereignty and this capacity of the public administrations – more and more, is more fucked up. Therefore, the mantra of efficiency and what is more economical is lied. And it's that, plus, we're wondering if in many of the outsourcings what we're putting is that it's more of a scam to outsource than to manage it publicly, the question we'd have to ask ourselves is, why is it more of a scam? Why in many of the outsourcings... – and that's why there's a point to the reason for it – why in many of the outsourcings, where the vast majority of the cost of outsourcing goes to personnel costs, so on salaries, is it more cheap? Does the public administration then have to take advantage of the fact that it's more fucked up? Because if when most of the outsourcing is of price or outage... or it's for labor costs, let's think that, then, what's facilitating public administration is precariousness and low wages. That's why we plant a very wide battery in many themes, that they want to address the preservation of the common good, or at least, that we start to study it here; many of the things we plant are studied. That is to say, we have not made a "expression in full rule, that you win, to the strategic sectors, probably we will not miss, neither gains nor reasons to do so. But we didn't make a mistake. Therefore, we understand that it is a question of minimums, to begin to recover sovereignties, but, as at least, because this Parliament begins to see or to put black on white as we recover and guarantee basic rights as are the common good. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.206.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.207.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Well, so, we've been one of the groups that we've put together for this young man. I'm sure there's a few points, to emphasize a few things. We say that in general terms we could share a part of the speech made by the CUP. Maybe the one we don't agree on is maybe demonizing some things. In other words, the law allows different forms of management, through agreement, concert or concession. We don't think these management formulas should be negative for themselves; some work well and others don't. They're legal, and so in this sense, we think it's worth saying and making it clear. Now, it is true that in some cases they are working well, in others they are not: the public service could be improved, in the case of subcontracts are not guaranteeing some elements..., and, therefore, it is true that it is worth reviewing some things. Therefore, in all those points that the CUP proposes to study, that the Generality studies to see how they are working, to study to value different possibilities, we agree. We think it's worth analyzing it, studying it and seeing it, so, what is the map, say, of these externalizations, of these indirect contractions made by the Government of Catalonia. In which we do not agree so much is when we ask you to study in the municipality, say so, in a mandatory way. First, because we respect the local autonomy very much, and therefore we have made statements in the line of: that municipality that I ask, can ask the Generalita to gather to do these studies, but if there is a group that has not decided it, therefore, listen to me, neither can I force them to analyze or study these possibilities. We believe that this is an important element, because we believe that we cannot force the type of management that makes a municipality to change. And speaking of water, which Mrs. Reguant said, she was talking about Prat, so, me, that I'm from Mataró, I mean that we have a municipal water company in Mataró from many years ago, and we don't think we're selling it. And this has never been on the table, and I think we've been in this city, too, very referent. But in the case of those municipalities that have it, therefore, outsourced, in any case, to force them, no; now, to give them the possibility, yes, and in the case that they want to study, that they do. It seems to me that, uh, our desks are a bit of a match on this line. Then, it's true that you must be strict with those companies that have people who have been accused..., have been, say..., or have a firm feeling with crimes of prevarication, corruption and, therefore, in this sense, it's good that we put it into practice. There are also some elements that are very linked to the best of working conditions, conditions, social clauses, which should be incorporated. That is to say, there are elements that we are in favour of, that we have made some points that have been accepted and negotiated, and, therefore, in this sense, we are in favour and we cannot position ourselves anywhere, so to speak, in this context. In some respects, in which some things are legally prohibited, we cannot agree with them either. We think so, don't we? , that the prohibition, for example, of the sale of loans..., the legal prohibition, therefore, costs us a little. Listen to us, if anyone wants to sell it, and their joint so decide, what do you do, right? But it seems to us that banning legally is difficult. I also believe that some of the things that are planted strike frontally with the law. And now we'll also have the Public Contract Law on file, won't we? And, so, I don't know if any of the things we approve of here after that can be moved there and legally accepted. But in any case, we've been curious. We accept and approve most of the points of this motion. We are grateful to the UPC that some of our discussions have been accepted, and we, in the points that we abstain or that we vote contrivedly, that they are few, that they are the minority, say, they are very much in this line, aren't they? : We believe that we need to respect local autonomy, which we cannot in any way force to change management because..., in any case, if the Generality examines a service and believes that it is better to eliminate, to change the management method that you do, but it seems to me that forcing it would be the right thing, because we may end up losing it, or not. But anyway, I'm studying it. If it is better, more viable, it improves the conditions of the public service, therefore, what is done. So, well, our reviews, our line goes that way. And anyway, I think she's a young man, so, positive, so, so, mostly, we support her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.208.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.209.0	Well, thank you, President. Mrs. Regant, we think your young lady is fine. We are grateful that you have accepted almost all the points, and therefore we will vote in favour practically all of them, because we agree in the general sense of what you have explained and what you want to ask in the motion. Now, allow 'a point of criticism or constructive reflection, with any construction: with these types of motions of general character..., in the same sense that some motions that make Citizens, that are like a Swiss naval, eh? His ships are very masque, they are a mark of the quality of the house, they promise to serve for many things, but at the time of truth they do not just solve anything because they are only in expectation; that is, express desires. I'm saying this because all the points come back around the concepts of privatization, mercantilization, outsourcing of public services, all a little barricaded, snooping from here, snooping from there, but we're not concrete in most of the points beyond asking for ratings or reports. I'm mistaken, someone might think that it's to avoid a mistranslation to the capitalist government that you give support to, but I see Junts' intentions for the Yes to decafeinate the Swiss ship more with its own ideas, I totally discard my bad thoughts, if I could have them. No, I said ironically, didn't I? But I guess it's my lettering problem, but looking at the header of the dots, fix's, huh? , asking: « to draw up a report, « to lay down the obligation to draw up a report, « to publish, « to start the study and to assess, « to facilitate, « to lay down the bases, « to start the process, » to draw up a study. Well – well – I agree with you, I agree because it has to be pragmatic, so that you can make the revolution and not lose the clouds with great irresolvable desires. Now, a little more practice that generates specific obligations to the government and that can be executed and subsequently assessed, well, it would be fine – in any young man, not this one, in any young man, so let's apply the criticism to those of us, huh? Directly. Of course there are two points that are more imperial: « establish the obligation and « establish the prohibition, and there we have presented them with some idea because it seemed to us that there would be more..., better the possibility of doing so, of these two questions. And it's also true that you have four or five points already approved in a motion of the last legislature, 223, repeating them almost immediately after the letter, because, effectively, the Government of Convergence and Union, with the external support of the Republican Left at that time, did not complete them – did not complete them. And they're doing well, because now, if they approve, the government of Juntes for the Yes, I suppose with its external support, for now it's a lot different and will have a lot more chances of being full, if they approve. We'll be loving to keep it that way. That's why I've allowed myself, too, to add it in the form of a few other points, also approved in the last legislature, that relate to the content of the motion and that I think they can help complete it. The exams. The first one's just technical, I won't be entertained. In the second place, at the g-point, you ask to study the creation of a public enterprise to manage emergencies. Home, no – no. I imagine you should want to refer to the support services for emergencies like, for example, phone calls that you are missing. But, of course, the emergences, the performance of the bombers, the performance of the moves cannot outsource them to a company, even though it is public, because we would be talking about decisions that must be in the hands of the government alone. That's why we presented the message to them in the sense of trying to see who these services are and being able to plan their return directly to the government. In the third question, at point j, you ask that municipal enterprises of basic services can only be sold to third parties if there is a consultation between the people and this one approves. Look, I'm imagining which hands I could go to, certain basic services in some small villages I have there in the head, and I'm just missing out, huh? Therefore, we believe that basic services should only be guaranteed from municipal management, whether with this public enterprise or with direct management, and that is why we have presented this issue here. In the fourth, at the point k you quantify a minimum wage topalls in the public contract. We believe that we cannot intervene in collective bargaining. We agree that there must be topalls, but these should be in line with what has been negotiated in the form of an agreement of the corresponding sector. The five-and-six is two additions of two points which were already approved by the 223 of the last legislature, and which basically claim that in the public contract it is in respect of labor rights, one, and that it is not possible to contract companies that hold theirs in tax havens, the other; that it is not, of course, complementary. And finally, the last question, given that you are speaking, and it has very well specified in your presentation now, of the processes of water remunicipalization, we wanted to put in value another motion approved in the last legislature in this Parliament that went unnoticed, about water management, which is also not complete, especially in relation to the monitoring plan for the municipality and the Social Pact for Water in Catalonia. Finally, so – and I finish – by accepting the good wishes expressed by the motion and which we have worked with, because we have not presented any proposals to achieve them better, it is true, we can do nothing but vote in favour of the sincere motion, except the k-point, which given the non-acceptance of our mandate, we will abstain and therefore ask to vote separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.210.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next is the word of Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.211.0	Thank you, President. We in Citizens are committed to productivity, to research, to development, to economic and environmental sustainability, to efficiency and to openness to Europe and to the world, we focus on the citizen and his needs, and for this we need public resources to be managed in the best possible way, the most effective, the most responsible and the most advantageous always for the citizens. In order to achieve this efficiency in the management of public resources, we need the muscle to prevail in the Administration, we need to greatly reduce the fat; we need that when we choose public enterprises to manage any service, they are not a centre for the placement of friends, that we do not enter through rotating doors and that we ascend by merit and talent, that they are led by the best, and that those leaders, the managers of these public enterprises, are required to produce results, to be held accountable. We also, of course – and that is why this motion – need to pay particular attention to the relations between the public administration and the company. Where this solution is chosen, for public-private collaboration, to make sense, to make it the most advantageous, we must be very careful, of course. That is why, for this reason, we are going to support a few of the points in this motion. Of course, it has a demonizing tone of public-private collaboration that we cannot and do not want to share, but looking more for what can unite us than what separates us, I think we do agree that not a single euro of citizens should be wasted, but not in an abounding and inefficient administration; nor in the salaries of managers of public bodies, who are often chosen not for their merits and who are then not required to bear any responsibility for the results of that management; nor – nor – and therefore, what I was saying, that we would vote a few points in favour, we want not a single euro to give more benefit to private companies that, for example, have not been chosen for their competitiveness, but to feed the capitalism of friends. Nor are those who have been chosen only among those who were willing to pay an additional 3 or 4_per_cent; nor do we want to benefit those companies to which all benefits are given, but do not be forced to take any risks, such as those on motorways; nor those that achieve their efficiency on the basis of skipping legal regulations or payment deadlines to their subcontractors. That is why we will support a few of the points in this motion. Public-private collaboration represents opportunities for our development, it is an opportunity, but it has to be done well, and the work does not end at the time we decide, that we choose one management model or another; the work must continue, we must follow up, we must control the efficiency of that model that we have chosen. And everything that goes in the sense of studying whether that option really is the most efficient, whether we can continue with that model or we must change, everything that assures society that what is being done, is being done correctly, all that we will support. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.212.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. Then has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.213.0	Thank you, President. Members of the Bureau, Councillor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, is an enlarged Member, a very enlarged Member. I liked the definition made by Vidal's naval teammate. The only one, that I, with a lot of affection, also, that we have done some has remained more bulwark to the ship. It's absolutely legal, but what you end up finding is a young woman who's filling up as long as it's complicated sometimes. There are three axes, aren't there? , in the motion: in the matter of transparency and recovery of the value of the public sector, in the matter of the municipal area and in the matter of public administration contracts; we have these three axes. To thank Mrs Regan for being able to speak out loud, we found room to find some transactions, and we also spoke very frankly of what points we would vote in favour and what points we would vote against. We would vote against a few points and, on many occasions, it is a counter not so much on the direct ground, and that is why we have presented many points, but on its possible execution and on the way it is done, in forms, in which way we find it, in which way we achieve this result and in which way we are also honest around many aspects that are to be touched on aspects of law and many aspects that, unfortunately, are to always be, that are the situation that are not our competences at the present time. And whether you want it or not, in the end, it's a frustration, but we wanted to be very honest and very honest and, like at least, we tried, and thank the dialogue capacity of the Regunant Member. From here and a mike entering the three axes. On the three axes there are points that we will vote in favour and points that we will vote against. In the first few places we got a transaction from point 1.b, which disappears and is converted into the third, and it's around that..., give it this viability. Now we're in the process of the Law of Public Contracts and, like what we're asking for changes around this law, we think the most reasonable thing is to place it on the mark of this law. At the point we have presented the issue – we have presented many issues – we have not been able to reach an agreement, and we want to identify elements that make the implementation of this point feasible. And in the face of the impossibility of reaching an agreement, so, I'm sorry, but we didn't find the agreement. Beyond that, we then have the points and d, which are clearly of transparency, which we have not addressed and which we will work together and which we think are interesting points. There is also the whole part of creating companies, of studying, because, it is true, it is a study and an analysis of the possibility of creating public companies, both in the energy field... In this area we have regulatory and regulatory problems, that is, the law makes it very clear that different legal persons are to produce, distribute and market this, and with the proposal that is made is not complete with this regulation. After that, there is no other circle of motorways, and a third point around 061, of the numbers of emergencies and emergencies, in which, like in the motorways, we will vote in favour; in the emergencies and emergencies are numbers that respond to different realities and we think that placing them in a single environment is not reasonable. It's not reasonable and that's why we stand against it. In the matter of the municipal sphere, here, if I may, a reflection, and the company Alicia placed it. In these areas we must be curios with local autonomy – we must be curios with local autonomy. I believe that writing in many areas makes it possible to be curated with this local autonomy, too, but we also have to think that if it were the other way around, even though writing was curated with local autonomy, we would look at it there with concern. I think this practice of being curated with local autonomy is important. Similarly, I believe that there are interesting proposals. Yes, there is one aspect in which we have not been able to reach an agreement, we have tried to deal with various proposals, but in the end we have not reached an agreement, and it is on the paper of the Catalan Institute of Finance. We've settled... the Catalan Institute of Finance has a role to play in the fabric of production. We have a working group that is developing the issue of public banking, which we thought was the area where it could be, because, if not, in the end, what we are cheating on alone, because the Catalan Institute of Finance has another function. And I went too fast because at the end I got a little bit left. In the field of public administration contracts, what we have found on many occasions is that there have been proposals in which, unfortunately, we do not have the competitions. And it's this frustration that we have, because we have a lot of gain, a lot of gain to be able to exercise these substantive debates in this Parliament. And that's our goal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.214.0	Mr. Homrani, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.215.0	Yeah. Thank you all very much. And I'll leave it here. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Homrani. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.217.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, last week the MPs of the CUP broke out in their Catalan People's Party. They did not come to talk about the different points of this young man but to assault his democratic party, to occupy it, to mislead it, to encircle its workers, to intimidate aggressively – yes – to intimidate the democratic opposition. Intimidating those who say no, thanks to their totalitarian project, 'no, thanks to their intention to "baptize Catalan society. They won't shut us up. Your attack on democracy will not triumph. To his latest book Giovanni Sartori, that in pa resti, titulat The race towards nowhere, that could be a book on the process, but no, says: "Those revolutionary groups that beat and assault democracy have only one idea in mind, that is nothing but a wrong fixation, the idea that a new world, purified from evil, will emerge mysteriously and miraculously from the creativity of violence. But ex nihilo nihil did, nothing comes out of nothing – nothing comes out of nothing. Why, beyond intimidation, the cream of democratic country flags, assaulting their democratic parties, throwing ampoules and stones at which they think different, pointing names and surnames at the enemies of the people or bullying non-independent students, what does the CUP have in mind? Well, let's look at the inquiry and the motion they're presenting to us today. The first block of the motion is about selective transparency. For example, demanal costs of all educational concerts. It's not bad – well, so far – but it seems insufficient to us. If we are willing to really improve the teaching we would also ask for the cost of public places and also the results of each center, and they would be in favour of giving more freedom to the couple so that they can choose. We would still be in favour of establishing the school board, like Sweden or Denmark. Unfortunately, you are more interested in stigmatizing the concerted school than in promoting first-class education for as many students as possible. But not only against the concerted school, they are also against everything that is not a hundred_per_cent designed and controlled by interventionist policies. And it's that sometimes it seems that this young man more than a young man is a nostalgic commemoration of the one hundred years of the Soviet Revolution, which, well, with President Carles Kerenski, now really have the opportunity, a historic opportunity to repeat those facts. All that's private is inhuman speculation, they come to say in their inquiry and in the presentation of motius today. That is why yesterday, and today, a member of the CUP said that she had to go for the world applying the expression "express, and say, yesterday, the member of the CUP, that this was a nice expression, that it was a popular phrase. Home, no; it's not a nice expression and it's not popular either. It's the phrase of a bloodthirsty dictator who brought to the Venetian people the shortage of basic products, family, rape and unpaid pensions. Well, maybe you don't know that, so you make this face, but, of course, you have a very good relationship with the Venetian extractive elite, but you know little about the problems of the Venetian people. They don't want to know them. In fact, last week came the Association of Venetian Pensioners of Catalonia to explain to us the consequences of this "so nice expropiese". You already tried to veto that appearance, and when you saw the retirees came out running. Very brave – very brave – this revolutionary caste, who sends the young people of his tribe to assault their democratic parties and run away when they see two retired Venetians. Look, his only idea is that everything that's private is bad. We say that there must be different models and apply the best for each circumstance. We believe that the objective is that public services are of high quality, accessible to everyone and that they cost as little as possible to taxpayers' pockets, whether public, private or mixed management. I've talked to you about different models, country models that work, like Denmark or Sweden. I now ask you a question, finally: can you give me an example of a country, of a single country, that has applied this recipe of the CUP and the working class visqui better? An example. It can be past, if they want. One. Res? Any example? Maybe that's why they have to use coercion, because they don't have arguments or models. Ex nihilo nihil did: nothing comes out of nowhere. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.218.0	In order to position herself on the exams, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.219.0	Well, thank you very much. Just to say that in the transactions, finally, as the Socialist MP said before, the Socialist Party has been added to the transaction at 1am and to the kbis, because, as I do not know if everyone will have it present, what is it, what is it? And only a few things have come out. I won't be able to answer everything, but on the issue of defending local autonomy, tell us that we question local autonomy, I think it's a big mistake. We start from the point of view that, with what we are dealing with, the municipalities that are making or trying to ask are legal marches that allow them to act, and what we are trying to do is to give legal marches that allow the municipalities to act. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we don't change it. And in the supposed defense of local autonomy, what we end up doing is certainly allowing things that do not exactly come from this Parliament, but would come from the LRSAL, the European Union or other unmarked policies for this Parliament. So, let's try to shield this, too. To thank all the groups that have submitted papers that we can reach agreement. To thank also the lessons that some try to give us and, finally, only one question to the most corrupt party in Europe: the last information we have is that they have 835 accused. Can they confirm that, please? Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.220.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. We're calling it a vote. [[Alice Romero Llano asks to speak.]] Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.221.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.222.0	Five?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.223.0	Two blocks: point 1.g, 1.l, 1.m, and point 2. I, for the other, the 1.j and the 10..., ai! The 1.j and the 1.o. - Excuse me. 1.j and 1.o.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.224.0	1.j...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.225.0	One. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.226.0	So, 1.g, 1.l, 1.m and 2 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, Res. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.227.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.228.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.229.0	1.e, f, g, k, l, m, n bis, p and point 2. And then... those could be grouped together, all this separate vote. And then I have points 1.i, j y o.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.230.0	You'll have to repeat it again, won't you? Because...,1.and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.231.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.232.0	For now they've asked for 1.e, 1.f, 1.g, 1.l, 1.k, 1.l bis, 1.o, 1.m, 1.j. It seems to me that... maybe we'll vote for them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.233.0	Oh, yeah? Do you vote...? Can't they group?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.234.0	I don't know, maybe we'll vote for them, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.235.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.236.0	Because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.237.0	Separately, perfectly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.238.0	Maybe we're voting them all separately, because you asked me very... many. I don't know... if it looks like it, are we all voting separately? [[Pause.]] Yeah, I know there's a lot of them, but it's just that they were asking me for all of them, practically... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, from '1st to '1st.c. It's true. From the 1st to the 1st they can vote together, which no one has asked for a separate vote. [[Chakir the Homrani Lesfar asks to speak.]] Mr. Homrani...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.239.0	President, I have to ask for new separate votes. That's why I would do the solution to vote each point separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.240.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.241.0	And it'll be the easiest and easiest way.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-06-3302.242.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all Come on, then, let's go... Go vote. Let us do it, as we have said: separate votes from all points. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved by 123 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point was approved by 122 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1.e_has been rejected by 36 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.f. The vote begins. Point 1.f was approved by 97 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.g. The vote begins. The 1.g_point was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 71 against and 41 abstentions. Then we'll vote at 1.h. The vote begins. Point 1.h_has been approved by 93 votes to 39, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote on the 1st. The vote begins. Point 1.i_was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1.j point. The vote begins. The 1.j_point was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 112 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.k. The vote begins. Point 1.k_has been rejected by 26 votes to 71, with 36 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1.k bis point. The vote begins. Point 1.k bis was approved by 123 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.l. The vote begins. Point 1.l_has been rejected by 21 votes to 71, with 41 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.m. The vote begins. The 1.m_point was rejected by 21 votes in favour, 71 against and 41 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.n. The vote begins. The 1.n_point was approved by 123 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 1st question. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 98 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1st. The vote begins. The 1st point was rejected by 54 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.p. The vote begins. The 1.p_point was approved by 61 votes to 10, with 62 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 47 votes to 44, with 41 abstentions. And then we'll vote point number three. The vote begins. The Movement on the Mercantilization of Life and Good and Common Service was approved by 123 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. Very late in the day, all of them. Thank you very much, and I hope you have a good Easter holiday. The session's up.
