ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. We welcome the plenary sessions to Mr. Ferran Pedret, who is reincorporating, and Mr. Fernando Sánchez, who I do not see, but I assume that he will also reincorporate, after his recent fatherhood. [[Greetings.]] The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple is enclosed in the folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. I, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, recall that Mrs Marta Ribas has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her parliamentary group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. [[Ask the Government about the effective protection of the dunes and pine forests area of the Pals Plateau]] [[310-00227/11]] And now we start with the first point of the order of the day. The first question to the Government is about the effective protection of the dunes and pines area of the Pals plateau. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.2.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Councillor, on 26 October, the Parliament, this Parliament, adopted a resolution calling for the necessary measures to effectively protect the dunes and pine forests to touch the sea, with high environmental value, at the Pals plateau. In the compliment check, from May 2nd, you reply that, effectively, these sectors have to be protected; in concrete, that the Roca Blanca sector is already protected from the construction for the urban planning in force as a consequence of the modification approved in 2014, that the qualification as a system of green spaces, and that, in the case of the sector of Rodors, it is previewed buildings but the order previews mechanisms to match the buildings with the pines on dunes. So, look, I've been told by an eye that these mechanisms don't work, that they're not protecting themselves. I would therefore like to know what evidence he has made to ensure this protection in an effective manner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.4.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, here we are talking, let's face it, about pines and pines on dunes. Pine trees on dunes is what we must protect through urban planning, in this case, in a very, very precise way. Another thing is that here there is a forestry activity; there is an authority on the part of the Government of Catalonia to carry out these activities, supervised by the Rural Agents' Cos, in the sense that what happened was in agreement with the regulations that the Government of Catalonia fixes, for one band, and the Assembly of Pals, for another. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.6.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, counselor, the information I have, more than anything, is visual. And I'd say that they're not just protecting the woods, but they're destroying themselves. I don't know if you see this picture, the cut...? Did you see that? So far they've been made such. Did you see that? Fifteen days ago this was a forest, now only the sand of the dunes remains. I, you know what? This one's in the protected zone. Such indiscriminate trees are being made in an area that is within the Pla d'espais d'interse naturel, within the Pla special Muntanyes de Begur. Listen, if that's what I'm saying, it would be a crime, wouldn't it? Could you prove it, please? I'd appreciate it if you could prove it. And do you know how it happened? As you said, with a March 2016 license to make perimeter fire protection fringes, it's valid for a year. Before they had the claim, they were also permanently cut, and no one put up with them, and with the claim expired, they continued to cut. Last week they still cut. Hundreds and hundreds of trees, counselor. To make a perimeter strip. I don't know if it looks like this picture has to be a perimeter strip or not. With this license, what was a pine forest in the protected area now is a herm. It is said, in summary, that such things have been done outside the permit dates, they have been done in the summer period; they are doing work with permissions of perimeter fringes outside the fringes and on properties that are not the authorizations. And you know why? For a question of urban speculation: to reduce the environmental value of the sector and to be able to modify the buildable quantity and authorize a volume of housing that would double the population that is now in Pals. I mean, there's no need...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.7.0	Mr. Vidal, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.8.0	Don't look any other way, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Counselor Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.10.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. I don't look at anything else; I deny the Major. I mean, you finally got where you were going, huh? , which is this last element. It makes a judgment of value that is not acceptable; it says: "These trees have been carved... We believe, because there has been the supervision of the Rural Agents' Body, which has been made with reasonable conditions and adjusted to the law; we will look again at it another time, it is obvious, but, listen, you cannot reach the following conclusion, which is: "Tillen trees, basically, to speculate urbanically. No, no, listen, it's not that; when we talk about the perimeter fringes we're not talking about a smaller issue, we're talking about a basic element from a security point of view. But, in addition, I tell you something else; I explain to you that we have approved a plan for the recovery of Dunar systems in the Empordà; that we will equip this plan with EUR 600,000; that we will begin to implement all the measures from this October; that at the Pals plaza, approximately 1,3_kilometres, in the area of dunes of the sea, we will make an investment of EUR eighty_ thousand. From this perspective, what will we do? Tanks with stem closures to protect this dune system; removal of paths crossing the dunes and restoration of fragmented areas; installation of snorkel traps to regenerate dune profiles; installation of information signals; planting of specific species. And, obviously, there's a basic theme for us, which is a fundamental theme, which is: these pine trees that help maintain this sand dunes ecosystem, that's untouchable, unalterable. And this is our compromise. And that, honourable Member, has not been touched; it has not been touched to make any prediction of alleged urban speculation, nor has it been touched, above all, and above all, because we have a legal obligation and a moral obligation to protect it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the actions of the Squadron Mosses to ensure the safety of people with Alzheimer's disease]] [[310-00229/11]] Second question to the Government, about the actions of the Mossos d'Esquadra to ensure the safety of people with Alzheimer's disease. The question is posed by Ms Montserrat Fornells, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.12.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor Jané, Alzheimer's is a disease that has become one of the world's greatest health problems, but the characteristics of this fan that also appears to be a serious social problem. Alzheimer's is an irreversible and progressive neurodegenerative disease that causes a greater dependence; it affects memory, skills, language and the different areas of day-to-day life of people who have it. Psychological and social impact is very important, both in the sick and in the most direct families and caregivers. In Catalonia, there are some 112,000 Alzheimer's disease, one of two people older than sixty-five years have the disease, and in view of the population's aging it is estimated that in a few years it would be possible to double the people who suffer from it. One of the tasks of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is to give protection and assistance to the citizenry, with particular attention to the most vulnerable collectivities in matters of security, such as Alzheimer's disease. Last May 5th, the Mosso d'Esquadra and the Federation of Associations of Alzheimer's Family Members of Catalonia presented the campaign « Ensuring the safety of people with Alzheimer's, a campaign of proximity and awareness made jointly consisting of carrying out various actions and having them to improve the safety of people with the disease and of their family members. One of the most notable actions of this campaign, among others, is the presentation of an identification wristband with a QR code that carries the logotype of the Mossos d'Esquadra. This serves because, if a person with Alzheimer's is lost or disoriented, the wristband makes it easy for the city or police to find the basic data of the contact of the caregiver or family member, more than containing information of interest of the illness. The federation of family associations will be responsible for their sale and distribution in their associations; it has not made a forecast of two_ thousand wrists. For all the talk, Mr. Counsellor, from the Group of Joints to the Yes we want to ask you how you value the actions that the Squadron Mosses have in term to ensure the safety of people with Alzheimer's and how you value the implementation of the QR code identification bracelet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.13.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you, honourable Member, for this question, because it makes it possible to explain in your Parliament a collaboration of the Generality Police, the Mosso d'Esquadra, with FAFAC, the Federation of Family of Alzheimer's Malalts, which we have been actively collaborating for many years – we have already made three editions of the solidarity calendar of Mosso d'Esquadra, now preparing the fourth, with more than 225,000 recaptated euros, which is destined for these malalts. And now, effectively, there has been a campaign, a specific campaign, ensuring the safety of Alzheimer's disease. And, as he explained, a bracelet was made. You're this one. It's the bracelet that identifies the malalt, people who are disoriented, who are lost, who don't know how to go home. If you wear this bracelet... – here is actually this QR code –, which allows you to locate your caregiver, your family member; which also allows you to know the sticks of that concrete evil, and it is an element that can help a lot because they are people who sometimes do not carry any type of documentation about. Did we value their implantation? We have not started to spread – more than 750 –, and there are countries in South America and Russia that are playing the Mosso d'Esquadra interested in an initiative that is pioneering in the police field. But this is not the only thing that has happened; there have been now two thousand triptychs addressed to families, to caregivers, who have to do when they disappear or lose an Alzheimer's disease. And besides, there has also been a specific guide, this internal one, dedicated to the agents, to the agents who interact with these diseases, because the first few minutes sometimes are very important in order not to disorient them more, and if they have some action lines, the agents, also taking into account medical knowledge. And I want to thank the Health Department that worked with Mossos d'Esquadra to make this internal guide. And, lastly, one last act. The support services to the community of Mossos d'Esquadra are targeting the twenty-and-a-one Alzheimer's family associations in Catalonia to address two aspects that concern us, for this collection: abuse and scams. They are more vulnerable, and therefore this must be done; they are more vulnerable than other vulnerable, such as abusive women, children, large people or people who suffer from any type of hatred or discrimination. This proximity police service is essential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.15.0	Thank you, Counsellor Jané. [[Ask the government about the sweet fruit campaign]] [[310-00230/11]] Third question to the government, about the sweet fruit campaign. The question is posed by Mrs. Violant Cervera, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.16.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, now a month ago the harvest campaign for sweet fruit has begun in Catalonia. As you know, this is a strong sector, competitive and open to the world, fundamental to our product fabric and which is essential to maintaining territorial balance in our country. In 2016, the production in Catalonia of fruit fell to 900,000 tonnes, and we are capdavanters in many of these varieties, such as, for example, in the nearsic or nectarine, which we are the third producers of Europe, the apple, which we are the visitors, or the pear, which we are the fourth producers. The agrarian world until now had been accustomed to facing good and bad fruit campaigns, meteorological inclemencies, bad hills and also on many occasions bad campaigns as a result of priests. Mainly, the assurances, the anti-stone or the antifreezes, the anti-freeze systems, have helped us to cope with these meteorological influences. And the price gaps, until now, were not indefinite and were not global, and more often than not they were associated with excess production or other problems between the same colitis. In the past few years, however, inexplicably, and before the unbelief of the producers, who are every time more professional and better their varieties, the fruit prices have been ruinous and seriously threaten the future of one of our main production engines. The sector is aware that the liberalisation of markets, the prohibition of state interventionism, the offer and the demand and the difficulties of an administration like ours, with few skills and without direct dialogue with Europe, make it difficult to find a solution to a problem of these characteristics. Nevertheless, we know that since the department is working with all the tools in its abst to get this sector to pull forward; we know that it is fan of promotion of fruit, marketing platforms, code of good practices..., but we would be interested, above all, to know what the government is doing on two tools that we believe to be phonenal: the economic circumscription of sweet fruit, and also the observer of prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.17.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.18.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, Congresswoman, for your question. As you said, the Catalan fruit sector is a pointer, it is a pointer to Europe, and from it many farms in our country, and that means many families. From the department we are very aware of this potential and, at the same time, of this great challenge that we have to consolidate this whole economy to the territory, and that is why we wanted to strengthen this sector from the very first moment. In this sector, we want to strengthen it with measures that are aimed at filling some structural deficiencies that it suffers and that help it not only to prevent the price crises that we are subsequently patenting in the later campaigns, but also to help us to strengthen them and to be able to manage them better if they are given and minimize their effects. And all these measures, as you have pointed out, go to better structuring the sector, above all on the part of production, to better organize production and to strengthen the value chain; to establish more transparent relations in the chain, and to pass through this necessary dialog, these synergies between all agents of the chain, from production to distribution, to achieve this common objective, which is to trust the consumer with the fruit produced here in Catalonia. During this term we have created three economic circumscriptions, one for the press and the nectarine, one for the pear and the other for the palm. These circumscriptions create the same production sector. It is formed from the majority of producers, more than 80_percent of the producer sector grouped in these economic circumscriptions, which self-regulates, establishes their own standards on how to market, marketing conditions, five calibres and which qualities arise in the market, as it is commercializen, in which conditions are the fan of contracts... And that's what we think is strong and positive, because these standards that set 80_percent of producers are mandatory compliments for all operators here in Catalonia; so help to regulate the market much better. In this sense, we will make informative papers on the 5th of June in Alcaras and 20th of June in Corbins, to inform all producers and who know the potential of this measure. The other great tool, the observers of prices, widely claimed for the sector, must give us more transparency. We are working very hard with the sector so that we have all the data and that these data are reliable, that they are of the utmost confidence, and that there is a reference element that helps us to improve our relations and that in this campaign we will start to make it work and that in the near future we want you to be well-established and have some good tools for our sector and strengthen it fully. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.19.0	Thank you, Counselor Serret. [[Ask the Government about the offer of post-compulsory education]] [[310-00231/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the offer of post-compulsory teaching. The question is posed by Mr Josep Maria Forné, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.20.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, most scholars and assailants speak to us that one of the aspects of the teaching of the immediate future, and we can also speak of the present, is continuous formation, that formation that we learned from young people, from children, and that has served us throughout our lives, so now, in some way, it has ceased to be and we need to maintain a continuous formation. This training continuously needs and requires attention on the part of the post-compulsory teachings. On the other hand, the attention and care of equal opportunities is a requirement of any government that is really concerned with a good government. The equality of opportunity is not only to compensate for differences, but also to ensure that these differences are not passed on from generation to generation and persist, so that they must be corrected. Mandatory teaching is one way of correcting these differences, but also post-compulsory teaching, since its diversity and diversification that post-compulsory teaching can have also allow to attend to the diversity of people's interests. And, more – more – post-compulsory teaching can also serve to meet the excellence of an educational system. The post-compulsory teaching, with its diversification, can also serve the diverse capacities of people. Catalonia is and has been a referent and has stood out in the offer of post-compulsory education, vocational training, baccalaureate training, vocational promotion programmes. The interest now and the question is: what is the position of the Teaching Department to want to continue to stand out in fairness and excellence through the offer of post-compulsory teaching and with what strategies? And also ask him, more specifically, how vocational training is a country tool and strategy in these objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.21.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Forné. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.22.0	Thank you, President. As the honourable Member has rightly said, just to work for fairness, but also to work for excellence, the most important instrument that this country has is post-compulsory teaching. Catalonia is not able to afford in its future, if it wants to be a referent country, it is that no generation does not have enough studies as to be able to answer the needs of the knowledge society. And in this sense we have good news. First place, about the graduation fee. Students who finish the quarter of ESO, which year 2005-2006 was 78_per_cent, at this time we are already more than 87_per_cent, almost 88_per_cent of students who graduate in ESO. And that's important because all these students who didn't graduate at that time were just the ones on the labour market or the ones who ended up having jobs that they couldn't have at that time, because there are a lot of labor markets that have been destroyed and, therefore, they don't have training as to be able to recycle in other sectors. But also a very important fact is early school leaving. We don't have enough for our students to finish ESO, but just to guarantee equal opportunities, they need to continue with post-compulsory studies. And the early abandonment of the studies has gone from 32,9_per_cent – a fact that was really alarming the year 2008 – to being at this time of 17,8_per_cent. Therefore, a very important fall that we must continue to improve and place ourselves on the goals that Europe marks for us, which is 15_per_cent by 2020, but we are already close. I, as you have asked many things, did let me focus on vocational training. In fact, professional training – let me just hide it – is like a tree, a new species that we have to take very seriously and that we have to take care of very much, because it grows with the same strength that is growing now. First of all, we must say that we have vocational training centres which have a high quality; we have vocational training centres which are open to the needs of businesses, which are offering training cycles adapted to the needs of each sector. Encany, to the Government of the Generality we have created forty-five cycles, all in dual, because all are giving response to the needs of different sectors: from the natural stone – to Lleida, we have many sectors that work the stone that did not have trained people, and therefore we will do a formation – to specialists in the legal field. Therefore, all these forty-five new cycles that we implement, all of them, respond to work needs. But we also have a better record of FP social prestige, which we miss a lot and still need. We have to say that vocational training is a tool of improved employability, and also of a country's competitiveness. Therefore, we will continue to work in the FP, in the industrial FP, and to get more students than follow the post-compulsory training...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.23.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.24.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about Catalan communication media]] [[310-00233/11]] Five questions to the Government about the Catalan communication media, formulated for Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.26.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning. Bon dia, consellera, conselleras, compañeros, compañeros... About a month ago, the resignation of the president of the corporation, Mrs Llorach, was voted in this Parliament. Mrs. Llorach also said that she would come temporarily and it turns out that she has already been screwing the chair for over a year, making and undoing, naming in twenty-four hours and re-appointing a Convergence TV3 director, so that you have your director. They did so so badly and so quickly that even their Republican Left partners got angry; you just have to see Mr Torrent's press conference that same day talking about the matter. The question is very clear, and I am asking it because it is your department, moreover, counselor, and I am also asking it because it is your party partner, Mrs Llorach, because Mrs Llorach has already stated that she has Convergence Carnet. You are therefore the right person to answer whether you are going to resign Mrs Llorach, as this Parliament has told you, and when you are going to do so. In addition, the motion, in the same text, approved the failure of the director of TV3. You have agreed with all the opposition, including the CUP, with Citizens, that this gentleman should be reprobated. How do we have the list of candidates for Mr. Sanchis' reprobation? And one last question: I want to know what it seems to you that Mr Sanchis is doing rallies, invited by the ANC, with a two-metre stellate behind him, talking precisely about the process, talking about independence and talking about the referendum. I would like to know what your opinion is that the director of public television in Catalonia, who we pay all Catalans – also those who do not think like him – will do independent rallies for Catalonia, in the purest Vidal style.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.27.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.28.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Member, a new session of control, the same question, the same obsession with public communication means... The first thing I do is to speak with rigor and, when it refers to people, to speak with respect and not to the ascribed militias that are not and have never been; they are not and have never been. In the second place, my opinion is that I am pleased that Mr. Sanchis, director of TV3, had an opinion. And you have all the right to exercise it and you have all the right to express it, I'd just miss it. I keep asking for rigor: heading rally– heading rally. Mr. Sanchis, as he already expressed at the last session of control, I think impeccably – therefore, he will understand that I will only do to ratify his words – he did not go to any rally: he was invited to express his opinion, to make a journalistic report on the Catalan reality [[remorse of the voice]] , a reality that you would want in white and black and that is in colors, political reality. You have all the right to do so, to express your opinion, as you certainly do, and as myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.30.0	If you are invited by the ANC, with a two-metre stellate behind you, speaking of the referendum, it is not a rally, that God comes and sees you. In any case, you do have the right to give your opinion, but if you want to give your political opinion, what you have to do is to run for elections and sit here, as we are Members, and not a hundred thousand euros a year, paid by all Catalans. Because it does not give your opinion, Mrs Munté : it does a political rally; a political rally, whether you like it or not. And it also does it against the TV3 Style Book. Because TV3's style book makes it very clear that there can be no political manifestations that call into question the neutrality of the Catalan public media. What happens is that you do not know that it is neutrality in the Catalan public media, because you have been in control of it all your life, since Convergence. And now they already have a person inside; they won't have to take off the phone anymore, because they have it inside. Mrs. Munté, you will pass into history because you are the counselor with the worst audience data in the history of TV3, and you will pass into history also because you are the counselor who has sunk TV3. And don't forget that TV3 isn't from Convergence. Repeat with me, Mrs. Munté: TV3 is not from Convergence, it is of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.31.0	There's a word for the Presidency Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Rigor, Mr. Deputy, rigor. He loses – he loses – the lack of rigour and his obsession with malaltissa, the same that is manifested at the founding of his party, in 2005, when you in your founding manifesto already said... [[Funnel veils]] – 2005, yes, Mr. MP, 2005, I correct [[remorse of the voice]] –: "The pedagogy of hatred spread by the media of the Catalan government against everything Spanish is becoming increasingly scandalous. With these ideas you show a total and absolute disconnection of the Catalan reality, I would say again, of a reality that is not in white and black, as you would say, monocolored and censored. It is a reality with some public communication media that are endorsed by audience data, independent and highly prestigious organizations, such as ACC, in terms of credibility. Listen, listen to this: in terms of credibility and plurality. You don't know what this plurality means. They are the only political formation that, in the 2017 presuppositions, set out a 25_per_cent spread for Catalonia Radio and TV3. So they meet the needs of public media? They will have to explain to us if their interest is not all another: it is to favor interests of media that are not precisely the public. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.33.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Munté. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. [[Ask the Government about public workers]] [[310-00234/11]] Sisena asks the Government, about the public workers, formulated for Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.34.0	Madam Councillor, your Government is almost exclusively dedicated to a political project that aims to get us out of Spain and Europe and create a new state. This, logically, you will understand that it generates some uneasiness, especially among public servants. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.35.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.36.0	... what does your department do to protect officials from the uncertainties arising from their political project?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, also a repetition of the question. This is his obsession, that of public workers, but not to help him, but you use them as a trigger, and you know it perfectly well. Look, I, in the first place, what I want to do is put in value the work of the public workers; some public workers who, in times of difficulty – that we have suffered and that, therefore, they have also suffered, with what has been, therefore, the loss of some rights – they have kept this welfare state for the conjunction of our country. And, therefore, I believe that the first thing I need to do is recognize this work, including at these difficult times.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.40.0	You haven't answered anything I asked you, Counselor. He has said something that we all know, which is true: what civil servants have suffered in all this time of cuts that you, since your party, Convergence, have captained and have become champions of the cuts in social rights and wages to Catalan civil servants; officials who are waiting for the timetable for the return of the extra payments due to them to be fixed. And you, your department and your government, have not done so, despite the mandate of this Parliament, Madam Councillor. Perhaps you are waiting, you, to make a summit to decide when to give money back to the officials, because you make summits for everything but what really interests all Catalans. And that is not to mention the precariousness of public officials, which has risen by 4_per_cent in the last year: from 22_per_cent to 26_per_cent. But none of this interests you, Mrs Borràs, but you do nothing to remedy mismanagement of officials. And he's dedicated..., that's right, you say we use them as lanceable tools, but it's just that you wanted the officials to ask for a party to throw Mr. Mas out at the courthouse door. And you [[some applause]] , your government – your government – Mrs Borràs, has in the drawer a law of disconnection that generates a lot of uncertainty to the officials and that is causing the unions to rush to make protocols on how to react, because, are you going to force them to violate the law to the officials? And will you be punished if you do not comply with the laws you make? What you are going to do is cause extraordinary legal uncertainty. Many unions are already reacting to this and you do nothing; you, instead of reassuring officials and protecting public workers, such as your mission, applaud your partner in line, Mr Lluís Llach, when you say ‘the officials will suffer, and applaud you and your whole group. [[Some applause.]] You are going to pass into history as the person who applauded the one who was threatening public officials, Mrs Borràs. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.41.0	Mr. Carrizosa... [[Greetings.]] Counselor Borràs responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, there'll be two of the counselors we'll be going through history, that'll be nice to see. But beyond that, listen to me, two elements: one, yes, it is true that there has been, therefore, a loss of rights, but it is also true that we are returning them; it is also true that we are at the negotiating table, and it is also true that if we dispose of our money at these times, it is true that we are at the negotiating table. [[remorse of the voice]] We could have a public office with more people. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] And also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.43.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.44.0	...more well paid. And this is a reality in which you too should give some type of response. But, listen to me, we are ahead of a political process, certainly, and here we do not add up or, therefore, avoid responsibilities; responsibilities that are, logically, about policies – and I know what I'm talking about. The government will preserve and, in addition, protect public workers, and will not put public workers at risk, in any case. And we speak clearly: it is clear that Catalan laws, obviously – you who are so advocates of the laws – are to complete them, only would be missing. Is it that from then on you will change this speech that the laws are to be completed? So, no, listen to me, the laws, also in the case of the public workers, the employees of Teaching, who do not like them to complete them, or respect the Law of Education or the Law of linguistic immersion..., but this is not the government that invents unfounded quarrels, threatens businesses, asks the prosecution to fine-tune things and that... more so, like you, they encourage President Rajoy to send individualized cards to all public workers so as to ate them. Listen to me, we want a state of law, logically, not a state like the present, that twists the right and that... so in this sense, let's learn, the just, or, better said, head, because in this matter, believe me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.45.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.46.0	...if we're right-wing defenders...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about Delphi's reindustrialization process]] [[310-00235/11]] Seven questions to the Government about Delphi's reindustrialization process, formulated for Mr. Albert Botran, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.48.0	Good morning. Counselor, your government in the past few months has announced a series of investments, of industries that would come to our country, even though we are still at the top of the 220,000 jobs that were destroyed in the industry between 2008 and 2013; so important is that there are nine, factories, like not tankers that are already there, and that it is a darker job. In the case of Delphi, an emblematic industry in Vallès, not only for the dimensions, but for the combativity of its workers, who gave them the good conditions with which they worked... – and we take advantage, a small incis, to greet the metro workers, who struggle for their working conditions and already carry five weeks of maturity–, we say that Delphi the tank was solved with a process of reindustrialization, and we know that the agreements of that process of reindustrialization have not been completed. Specifically, by the end of 2016, the company had undertaken to present the relationship of the 208 jobs to be created, giving continuity to Delphi's workers. Today, 178 of these workers are pre-contracted, but the company considers that it has already completed. Counselor, is the department following this reindustrialisation process? And if this incompliment is demonstrable and palpable, will you act? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.50.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, the agreement made for Delphi's reindustrialisation is an object of follow-up and the value that in fact is that it is coming to an end and that will be completed, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.52.0	So, let's take the word for it. Let's hope that these 208 jobs are still these and no less. And we know that there's a reason to worry because the company needs a few reasons to avoid this responsibility to take 208 jobs. They say that they have made 208 job offers, that this may well be that a worker gets three job offers, or that among these 208 there are profiles that do not fit, because the company already knew what profiles there were in Delphi. We..., the model that is often used in these cases of reindustrialisation already seems quite doubtful to us: to delegate to private consultants, the prestige of which is not to achieve the maintenance of the maximum place of work, the quality of this and to age because this is what it is, but it means, therefore, to make a nice welcome with the company, with the workers, the installations, to achieve the investors and, once this has happened, to dissociate themselves, in a way, that is what is happening now. In this case, therefore, the responsibilities also fall to the Generality, from whom we expect, we insist, to guarantee these 208 places of work...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.53.0	Mr. Botran, you've run out of time. Thank you, Mr. Botran. There's a word from Councilman Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.54.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Mr Member, look, what gave the agreement to reindustrialisation is that there would be an offer and a contract of a minimum, so we are talking about a minimum of 208 workers from Delphi's previous staff, who were joined. And when I say at a minimum that's why, perhaps, we hope that the four nine companies that are located at Delphi's premises will be able to vacate things well and can contract each time more workers than they had ever been. And, in fact, offers haven't been made 208, they haven't been made 253. There have been 253 nominal offers to workers of the old Delphi, of these, today, 88 already hold a contract in force and there are 92 that are signed contract commitments, already. Therefore, this is evolving well. We have 9 responses and there are 38 offers not currently covered by inexperience or lack of sufficient knowledge and there have been 26 that have been refused by the candidates to whom this offer was made. And what is it that we continue to do? Let's keep working because, for example, these offers that are not covered by inexperience through the SOC can be done – because that's what it's granted and that's what it's signed – can be offered and reform and qualification courses that allow these workers that today..., formerly..., come from the old Delphi and that today are not qualified enough, can be trained and able to accept and move on to work as a staff of the nine companies. And that's what we do. And obviously we follow, the same way we follow, also, all the investment commitments that there was and that were compromised by the four companies. And I want to remind you that this has been a good process, because, of a company that went out and left all the workers at the stand, at the time, we have managed to have four half-years and small Catalan industrial enterprises that are joining, that are alienating and that grow and increase the contract of industrial workers in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.55.0	Counselor... thank you, counselor. [[Ask the Government about the implementation of the new decree of the inclusive education system]] [[310-00232/11]] Vuitena asks the Government about the application of the new decree of the education system, formulated for the lady María José García Cuevas, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.56.0	Thank you, President. I would like to welcome the mothers of the Ciutadana Platform for an Inclusive School in Catalonia, who are accompanying us today. Honourable Councillor d'Ensenyament, two very specific questions. When is your Government going to approve the decree on the education of students in the framework of an inclusive system? Will this decree be implemented in September for the new school year?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.57.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.58.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Consellera, so, two..., ai, Mrs. Consellera, no, Mrs. Congresswoman... [[the Councillor riu, rialles]] - No, no, no, If you want, I'll give it to you one day, huh? He can come to my place, see what it's like to be a counselor. [[Rialles.]] Two answers. The inclusive school decree, knows that the whole process has already passed and is in its final phase: it passed through the school board, passed through the Guarantee Board, yesterday passed through the Technical Board, the first time. And two: it's not when it starts to apply, it's already started to apply. That is to say, what we have done... – then I will explain it – what we have done is work with a lot of participation from the entities and, meanwhile, move forward with many of the measures that there are, such as the inclusive school program. Two years ago we have more than 360 professionals at the centers that work the best of inclusive school, for the next course there will be 99 more; 700 teachers..., 700 more teachers that we have put in the system for the endowment to inclusive school; as well as resources as the resource centers for students with disorders of conduct, the Créditics, for the hearing, the visuals, etc.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the Member's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.60.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor d'Ensenyament, inclusive school is a sensitive and unreplaceable social demand. To guarantee and regulate this right, recognized by the UN more than ten years ago, also by our legal framework, is your competence, and also your challenge, which you must face with more determination and effectiveness. Catalan families with children with special educational needs have been calling for the revision of the outdated 1997 decree, which is clearly pre-inclusive. First were the long ones of Constellera Rigau, then the opacity and slowness with which you are managing the elaboration of this new decree. After two and a half years, in May 2016, we finally knew a correct draft that responded to the demands of families. We now have approved budgets and we do not understand why the decree is not adopted and why it is not put into effect, which is not in place, Councillor. Families are disappointed with you and are very concerned. We want to know whether or not the draft of a year ago has changed. Are you still collecting the decree, the final decree, the parents'right to choose the model of schooling for their children? , the transformation of special schools into service providers for inclusion in ordinary schools? , the redefining of the USEE? Can you tell us what time frame it takes for this conversion of special education centres? Can you assure us that your decree, its implementation, will comply with the UN's instructions in general comment No. 4 to article 24 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities? I do not know if you are aware of the concern of these families, who do not know what regulation, what means the course will take, and whose reality is sometimes contrary to the spirit of the decree. Because the reality, she said, is that since the Catalan administration, inclusive schooling is not being promoted; instead, enrolment in special education schools is increasing. What do you think? Do you not think that your department's instructions to the territorial services, to the centres, should already be consistent with the decree? And they're not. Counselor, we ask you to commit yourself to these families, to the rights of your children. We ask you for urgent approval – approval – of the decree, in the line we have expressed to you. And we ask for its immediate and effective implementation. For this, we will support you, but know that we will also remain vigilant. Thank you very much, Madam President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.61.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Counselor Ruiz responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.62.0	Thank you. Madam Member, she has said many dice, some of them are not entirely true, but I don't have time to beat them all. I'll be happy to tell you. For example, he says: "When will special education centres be converted into resource provider centres? They're already doing it. There are many special education centres in our country that are providing resource centres to ordinary schools. So, this is a path. Look, with inclusive school, I do recognize one thing, the process is long. It's true. But I give him two reasons why he has to be long. One, because transformation is very important. Catalonia has always followed an example in inclusive, not only schoolgirls but also work. And here we could say a lot, because, in change, what you get from the special work centers, for example, is the Spanish government. And, precisely, a change as important as we are making, from inclusive school to inclusive system, is a process that obviously needs to be long, because, if not, we would do it badly, and it is our responsibility to do so. Miri, do you know how many people have participated in the elaboration of the inclusive school decree? I'll give it to you, because it seems to me that with thirty-nine seconds I don't have time to read it, but all these are agents from within the education system. We have more than twenty-two associations, which we have brought together with the Table of entities representative of the field of intellectual disability, sensory development, motorism and learning disorders– twenty-two–; nine centres, three Catalan universities, the Official College of Social Workers, the Psychological College, the Psychopedagogical College, the Physiotherapist College, the Logopedes, the President of the Mental Health Council, the Clinical Hospital Psychiatry Unit, and federations of couples and seas, trade unions, experts, etc. Therefore, it is true, it has been long because we wanted to include the opinion of all these. Counsellor – to, counselor... –, Member of Parliament [[I'll give you a round of applause.]] I insist, a year ago we came to explain the outburst, now we're willing, if you want, to come to explain the whole process, as it ended...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.63.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.64.0	...with the contributions of the different entities. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.65.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the judicial plant]] [[310-00228/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the judicial plant, formulated for Ms Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.66.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Who are the contacts and who are the managements making their department with the Ministry of Justice and the General Council of the Judiciary to modify, expand and ultimately improve the judicial plant in Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ibarra. Reply by Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.68.0	Good morning, President. Member of Parliament, since the beginning of this parliamentary term, we have not failed to insist on the Ministry of Justice that I complete its commitments. The year 2015 was committed to creating us jutjats in Catalonia that, today, year 2017, are neither in nor 'lsera. Therefore, this is the insistence. But these aren't enough. In Catalonia we have, as you know, because I have reminded you more than once, a deficiency of seventy justices to be placed in the middle of the State, and therefore we continue to insist one day and another to make it possible for the need for justices in Catalonia to be resolved and because the workloads, in many cases inconsumable, that have the justices, can be properly redistributed. And it is obvious that the judicial plant deserves reform. It is a judicial plant designed and inn in practice the year – and I am not mistaken– 1834. One hundred and three years after we understand all that social, democratic and distance conditions have changed, and that it deserves a rethinking. For example, did you feel that the judicial party of the Hospitallet, which shares physical space with the judicial party of Barcelona, are different parties? Did you feel that a city of a hundred thousand inhabitants like Sant Cugat del Vallès doesn't have any justices? So, these serious reflections that we would like to be able to convey, with the modification, that it is an organic law, of the organic law of the judiciary, to modify the judicial plant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.69.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for Mrs. Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.70.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, in his answer we see no solution to an obvious problem of justice in Catalonia, the delay in the resolution of the subjects who are in jutjats. The Government of the Generality – and you have now given an exhibition – is more likely to blame others than to take on its own responsibilities. The Government of Madrid is blamed, the public workers are blamed... A good example is the demonstrations made by the Secretary General of Relations with the Administration of Justice some days ago, in which he blamed judges and magistrates, and all the staff at his service, and ended up professionally discrediting them for the delay in the resolution of matters. But the truth is, counselor, his department isn't looking for solutions, and I'll give him an example. A few months ago the General Council of the Judiciary gave the possibility to create six jutjats of the social reinforcement in Barcelona. Let's remember he's sitting in this jurisdiction two years ago. The department did not accept it, and only three have been created, which does not solve the existing problem. Late justice is not justice. And all that, counselor, because they consider themselves more likely to raise the flag of the weight and confrontation than not to seek solutions that improve the lives of Catalans and Catalans. And, mirin, this attitude is also respectful of the civil code's libre sisè. They had the opportunity to negotiate and agree with the central government because it did not submit constitutional appeals, and they did not take advantage of it, they rejected it. Is it really the civil code's sisè book or is it just the launch weapon in the confrontation process they're feeding? They think you're like that. You do not seek the solution to problems, do not seek the solution to problems that Catalans and Catalans have. We ask you for a change of attitude, counselor, for the sake of a public service of primary need for Catalans and Catalans as justice is. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.71.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. I've got the word Councilman Mundó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.72.0	Madam Member, I am disconcerted, because we ask for solutions that I would be delighted to apply, but we do not have the tools. The modification of the judicial parties now involves the Government of the State and the Spanish Parliament, amending an organic law, and it is impossible. So, I..., maybe you want me to sit on the floor of the heavyweight debate. No, I want absolutely all the responsibility to be able to decide these questions and to make a judicial plant suitable for the needy and to be able to create, which we can't do, the necessary justices. And he talks about the example of social justice. Yes, it's all right, the General Council of the Judiciary makes the letter to the King saying that it should put six justices on us, but then it only designates three justices. Therefore, we can do many things, less miracles. And, as for the civil code's librarian, look, what's not acceptable is that the state government gives a buffet to the face of the country's legal and academic world. A law, that of the Civil Code, endorsed by the Codification Commission, formed by professionals and academics of all spheres; endorsed for this Parliament with one hundred_one votes in favour; endorsed for the Council of State Guarantees for unanimity. After all this political, academic and professional consensus, the Government of the State has closed a new buffet to the legal and academic world, bringing to the Constitutional Court a law which, in short, is to resolve the questions of the citizens of Catalonia with a modern standard adapted to the needs. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.73.0	Thank you, Counsellor Mundó. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the discursive drift of the Government of the State and their statements regarding the influence of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Cry Constituent in the action of the Government of the Generality]] [[317-00157/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.74.0	Good morning. Lately we have heard speeches born of the political school of lying. At the fever of this year Mariano Rajoy supported Televisió Espanyola: "It is a terrible and very dangerous fact, a group of extremists such as the CUP, which has been conditioned, blackmailed and threatened to the Government of the Generalitat – the castle is literal. [[Widow's remorse.]] In this same chamber, it has been said, a while ago, that we symbolize evil, with what and what. And that same day, the vice president of the Spanish government said she runs the CUP, and we don't know what to do with it. The free repressive bar of stigmatization, criminalization, disfiguration, satanization are part of any manual counter-propaganda speech to weaken, suppress, rake dissenting political spaces, but they are also preludes to bad wishes, persecutors' wishes. This menu of speeches about inner enemies knows very well how it starts, but never how it ends; you know who it starts with, but not who it ends up swarming with. Mr. President, what is your opinion on this discursive drift? And we ask him why silence always runs the risk of being translated as complicity. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.75.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs Gabriela Serra, in the first place, I think that when there was the opportunity to clarify – and I know the first interested one certainly after you – that in this government there is no rule of the UPC, nor the policy that the government inspires it the UPC I was the first to say it with all roundness. I'll do it one more time. You know that, and the problem of foundations is neither rigor nor rigor... – they've seen some shows of how politics can be done from the lack of rigor –, but the intention is to situate a narrative thought of by all those people who read politics or things that go by the wayside, to situate things in the land to which they want to carry a government, like the Government of the People's Party, according to which, in Catalonia, putting the ballots is the way not to listen to the people and putting ballots is the way to fail to fulfill the law. Obviously the political debate based on the criminalization of the adversary is the prelude to totalitarianism. And this is a drift we no longer understand; we no longer understand it only from a band of this Parliament. Believe me, if you have listened to statements that have made excuses that have nothing to do with independence about what perception the current Spanish political situation deserves, I think it would be good for the Democrats of all sides to start worrying. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.77.0	Thank you, President. There's the word "Mrs. Serra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.78.0	Mr President, a few days ago, Soraya Sáenz of Santamaría said: "There will be no referendum. Puigdemont is in the hands of the radicals of the CUP. He prefers to consent to radicals and to the exclusion of legality. He also said: "The extremists impose the date and the question on Puigdemont. I mean, the CUP has the secret government. President, does the Government of the Government of Catalonia feel at the hands of the CUP? And if that is not the case, and the Government of the Generality does what it does is to maintain its compromise with the decisions approved in this Parliament in exercise of its sovereignty and comply with the democratic mandate arising from the ballot box on 27 September, which is where the UPC fem and vehemently pushes, don't you think it will be necessary to do something else? Give any answers? What do you think you're doing? Because fixed 'cause on the background is the same against the ballot box strategy: sharpen a part to sharpen it all. We don't trivialize threats, accusations and lies, because it was not trivializing, trivializing, and maybe without wanting it, we end up trivializing evil, and then we'll be lost, because everything will be worth it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.79.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.80.0	Lady Serra, you've been a long time... I've heard them say: « Ask date and question. There's no date or question today yet. So, if you were so influential and this government felt so taken over by the group that you represent, it is obvious that this requirement, that we felt it on the floor every day, we would have completed it, and we didn't, because the government has its government program approved for this Parliament and the completion, which I ask, is nervous who is nervous, on one side or on the other. We are concerned, indeed, with what is the poor democratic quality of the Spanish State. [[Widow's remorse.]] This is not said by the government or the majority of Parliament, it is said by a report from the Greuges Synod, that they would do very well... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.81.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.82.0	I think they should be more respectful of the law. The Synod of Greuges is an institution approved by the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, perfectly constitutional and that passes control, that passes control of this Parliament... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.83.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.84.0	...and deserve, like at least, a little respect especially for those... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] If we must strive to defend the figure of the Greuges Synod they have a problem – they have a problem. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.85.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.86.0	Because when they are laughing at a very serious report, they should be extremely concerned about the democratic quality loss of the Spanish State, it is that you care about a rave of the democratic system, which they care about is strength. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.87.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.88.0	Maybe they're preparing force measures?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.89.0	Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the new model of payment of tolls by means of a fee]] [[317-00153/11]] The question is posed by Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.90.0	Good morning. Mr. President, god-in-law, for not being your government in the hands of the CUP, it was they who sent to the paper of history the ex-president Arthur Mas. So, god-in-law, huh? [[applause]] for not being in the hands of the CUP. But today I want to ask him about the real problems of Catalans or real problems that Catalans will find. It appears published in a newspaper in Catalonia today that its government's will is to create a new tax, to create a new tax on all Catalans who have a vehicle. Specifically, push them..., create this 50-and-a-hundred-dollar fee that we will pay all those who have a vehicle in Catalonia, every year, for the purpose of pushing barriers, including those that never use tolls. My question, Mr President, is: for what reason do Catalans who do not use tolls have to pay between fifty and one hundred euros each year for a service they do not use?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.91.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.92.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. García Albiol, Catalans at these times already pay tolls in the shade; all, have a car or do not have a car. They pay about forty euros a year of shaded tolls. Therefore, it is not that we introduce a new concept that will make so many Catalans pay now, even those who do not have a car, for the tolls, no. What we would try to do is rationalise the toll model to modernise it and lay it down, above all, to the good European practices that work. That said, if you have any suggestions that you go further than the usual places you'll be welcome. But the suggestion that we expect from you above all is that they make the government of their party complete, because one of the reasons for which Catalonia has to pay is the incompliments of the Spanish State. (Whispering) Fixi's..., no, no, no..., data of its..., data of the liquidations of the Ministry of Hisenda, of the Ministry of Development : 35,6_per_cent, executed in Catalonia. Is that completing with Catalonia? Does this allow us, all the Catalans who have paid taxes to reindeer in the State as they are supposed to? If they want to contribute any contribution because the Catalans note more the result of their huge fiscal effort is that the government of their party complements with what he himself says he intends to invest. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.93.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.94.0	Madam President... it seems that we are already beginning to know what is the future that will be facing us or that would confront us with the hypothetical independent Catalonia: more taxes, more taxes and taxing all Catalans. The proposal you are presenting, which we have met today, is an attack – it is an attack – on most Catalans, especially those Catalans..., especially those Catalans who do not use toll. Especially those Catalans who consider that they do not have to pay tolls or seek alternatives. To blame repeatedly for all the evils and all the "inagethion of his Government to the Government of Spain" is simply to try to conceal his own weaknesses. I want to remind you that the toll price of the state's tolls... the price per kilometer, sorry, is 0.12 cents. The price per kilometre of the Generalitat tolls is 0.22 cents. Is this also the fault of the Spanish Government, Mr Puigdemont? Why not use the resources of Catalans instead of devoting them to creating state structures, instead of devoting them to creating figures of political positions that serve absolutely no purpose, to solving problems such as tolls, which I am putting to you right now? Mr Puigdemont, what you want is for Catalans to remain the Spaniards we pay the most taxes. And we don't pay them because the Spanish government signals or ill-treats us...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.95.0	Mr. García, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.96.0	...but we pay them because we have a government in Catalonia that is... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.97.0	He's run out of time. [[Greetings.]] There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.98.0	Thank you very much. Just to clarify some questions that Mr Albiol is so concerned about. Do you know what a pair of Sant Sadurní works in Barcelona, tolling the year of the AP-7, which is of the State? I can get to pay four thousand euros a year. Do you agree with that? Do we agree to change it? Do you know what Catalans will pay for the motorways of Madrid, rescued with the money of all? Are you willing to have these moneys that will be used to rescue the failed motorways in Madrid, which we will pay among all of us, decount them to the Catalans? Because if he agrees, I'll give him support. Do you agree? [[Greetings.]] Do you agree that it is a burden to go from Barcelona to Valencia to pay tolls and to go from Madrid to Valencia? Do you agree? [[Pause.]] So I'll give him support in this sense. Do you agree that to pay for Castor's failed rescue – failed for some, for another lord you know very well, people failed – do we have to pay Catalans, too? [[Pause.]] Because if you don't agree, as I deduce from your words, that the very concerned view that Catalans don't pay for the car, in this case, neither the highways nor the gas to their habitat, so, listen, we can make a coalition of interests to defend Catalans. And you, who have something to say to the Government of the State, can tell Mr. Montoro that I comply with this criterion so fair as to relieve Catalans of a fiscal pressure that they have not generated or deserve. If we do this, you'll see how the figures change abruptly. And this argument of yours that you say that the Catalans here that we want to make pay more still for all the people, will fall for their own people. Here the cost of money is the system of belonging...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.99.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.100.0	...to the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.101.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the understatement of the National Referendum Pact and the compliment of the international standards of validation of the referendum]] [[317-00155/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.102.0	Thank you, President. President, these days, it's been a few days of tension growing, huh? , with the Government of Madrid and with considerable demonstrations of enrocement on the part of Mr Rajoy, the question that sees us in the head is twofold: why, precisely in these circumstances, does his Government seem to lack the unitary space that has proved to be more powerful, that is to say, the National Referendum Pact? And, secondly, at a time when, as you mentioned earlier, you are asked to fix date and question, if you decide on a unilateral reference, what legal grounds and what guarantees would this reference have to fit the standards required by the Venice Commission, as we voted in the last plenary?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.103.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, just one morning: I don't think it's fair or adjusted to the reality that you accused the government of undermining the National Referendum Pact, absolutely. And, besides, I don't accept it. Among other things, because I know exactly who tried to influence and manipulate the National Referendum Pact, I know, and it wasn't this government. So all of us would do well to let work, as the Government has let do, on the National Referendum Pact, which he considers when to meet and what to express. He finished his work, we collected it, we turned it into a government agreement and delighted to participate in the meetings that convoked the National Referendum Pact. What is lacking in government is that it calls for a meeting and does not show up to listen, to inform, also to give an opinion. That's what's missing the government. Is he on the freedom to do it? Yes, it is in freedom to do so, but think 'but if you want things to continue as they have been so far, the first thing you should do would be to participate in those spaces that continue to have the common denominator that is no longer referring yes or no, but is becoming, every time more, democracy yes or democracy no. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.105.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.106.0	President, I think we disagree on this point. Look, the National Referendum Pact took a formal compromise from its constitution, from its birth, and that is that what we came up with would be collectively decided with all the members and with all the participants. The National Referendum Pact made a stage, closed a stage of gathering signatures, but it is necessary that this pact and all its actors may take place around a table and may discuss and assess the current situation and make a collective decision. If there's a fork of paths, we don't have to talk, and we have to be able to decide them. That's what's at the top of the table, President. And what we fear and what we would not want is for the government to have an instrumental relationship with a unitary space that applies the majority of forces of Catalan society, and that is precisely the space that calls for the best democratic forces of Spanish society. We think and fear that the runaways just by putting things very easy on Rajoy's government, that they allow him and make it easy for him to embrace sectors of Spanish public opinion that should be able to dialogue and debate with society and with Catalan democratic forces at this time. Therefore, we think and insist that it is not just the one that touches now and what is urgent that we bring this National Reference Pact together, that we say things clearly, which are the proposals that exist in the table, but, above all, we think that we should continue on the path open for this pact. And one of the ways to move forward and respond rigorously to the situation, we insist, is that resolution that was taken by the Parliament of Catalonia, about which we ask if it has taken any initiative to put it into effect. I'm talking about the dam contacting the Venice Commission.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.107.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.108.0	Yes, man, instrumental relationship of the National Referendum Pact. If you remember my first words at the first meeting, you will see that they are contrary: why it is to be served and why it is not to be served. And I think I've been explained in this sense. Moreover, I was explained in another sense that the government, I insist, has tried to preserve, which is that the governance model of the non-governmental and non-institutional pact. And I think we've all respected that. I, at least, for the part that surrounds the government, I can give faith, and it was one of his virtues. And there is an executive committee that is very cross-cutting and very plural that listens to everyone, and that with the benevolence that he will listen to everyone will gather all those petitions that make him arrive the different members of the pact, that we all are worth the same, and that he will consider timely the convocation of the pact so that we can intersperse the opinion on the political moment that the country sees, of course. And, obviously, we go there, of course, and we explain to them that, like the government, we are close to explaining when we find ourselves. Naturally, I will also explain, and I can tell you, that we have clearly paid tribute to the Venice Commission's resolution and that – if it didn't come out yesterday, or today, or came out before yesterday – the letter to the Venice Commission is sent. Therefore, we have no problem in continuing to develop the framework that emanates from the resolutions of the Parliament of Catalonia, of the National Referendum Pact, but also from the parliamentary compromise that this Government has countered and that this Parliament has approved, that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.109.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.110.0	...is to get the Catalans to vote in a referendum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.111.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the date of the referendum and the consequences of celebrating it]] [[317-00152/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality on the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.112.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, from his epistolary relationship with the President of the Government of Spain we have deduced – and I think we do not deceive ourselves – that there will be no reference to independence after the summer and, therefore, in that false disjunctive of ‘referendum or reference only remains the possibility of unilateral reference outside the current legal framework. And in this sense, Mr President, I would like to ask you if you could tell us in your parliamentary office on what date you plan to call him and what you expect the consequences to be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.114.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, the date is not yet decided, the question is not decided, and the consequences we have already warned them all. We will apply the result that the people of Catalonia issue, the verdict that comes out of the ballot box, which is what corresponds to all democratic government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.115.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.116.0	Yes, thank you, Mr. President. You'll understand that I'm telling you that it's a good thing that the government's big political decisions and captivating announcements are produced in your parliament. We have been asking the government to explain to us what preparations are being made to convene the referendum, but you have even blocked a commission of inquiry that the only one I intended was to know that there was some truth in the statements of Judge Santi Vidal. We have also asked them for documentation on the development of the wrong name of the transitory law. I suppose we'll know the date of the reference after the announcement meeting of the National Referendum Pact, a pact that we had understood to have as objective the impulse of a given reference, which is not what you intend to call after the summer. Don't tell us the date. I also see that it is clear what the consequences are, because it will be outside the legal framework, the Catalonian State Guarantee Board has told us for once. And it seems to me very well that he is in contact with the Venice Commission, but he will probably tell them that there can be no reference that is not used for the Constitution or a law according to the Constitution; it is the first condition that the Venice Commission poses to guarantee the democratic pulcrity of a reference. Therefore, I do not think that I can count on this job for which the same Parliament had asked. No one escapes, neither do we, the enormous difficulties of making a reference to these characteristics. And if that's the case, it won't have very different effects from the 9-N consultation of 2014, which didn't have any positive effects on the ground of concrete..., and some denials. You have placed yourself on a road without exit, and it seems to us that you have not quite calculated the consequences of your decisions, which, from our point of view, implies a manifest irresponsibility. We again place it in place not to place the Catalan institutions outside the law, not to steal information or rights from opposition groups and, above all, not to commit the irresponsibility to take decisions that may end up harming the country and the institutions precisely for not having predicted its consequences. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.117.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.118.0	Precisely, what you can't get back to this government is that you don't foresee consequences. It is a government that at this time has a disputing councillor; it is a government that the former president has been disqualified from, that Councillor Rigau has been disqualified, that Councillor Homs has lost her voice and that Vice President Ortega has also been disqualified. Therefore, if anything we know are the consequences that it represents to remain faithful to the compromise with the citizens of Catalonia, and we know perfectly well who is at the side of the citizens and who is at the side of the state apparatus. We're perfectly clear. Why, speaking of blocking commissions of inquiry, what does it seem to you that the commission of inquiry of the Catalan operation at the Congress of Deputies, in Madrid, has been blocked? Does that sound good to you? That's a shame! [[Greetings.]] Do you understand? And when the syndic of Greuges talks about democracy regression, he refers to things like this. And from this State, which every day offers us, every day, more gifts and motivations that confirm us in our convictions, what we can do is to get out of it neatly, civilizedly and democratically, which is what we will do. What's the point of asking the Catalans? Do they really have so much that Catalans can express an opinion? What do they have to do with it? What can they decide? So, look, I think that's what the people of Catalonia want: to decide. And it's perfectly legitimate that there are groups that say Catalans can't decide. But that doesn't make us legal and illegal. In any case, we could agree on other adjectives. This converts us..., to have a determined political proposal that when he was under the ballot box he had the support of the absolute majority of this Parliament of Catalonia. And when one presents himself at the polls and acquires a contract with the citizenry, the most decent, ethic, that can be done is to try to complete it until the end. Because all the remaining power pertains to the sphere of political policy, but it does not belong to the sphere of politics that citizenship demands of us. Citizenship is major, citizenship has the right to vote, Catalonia is a nation, and as a nation it has the right to self-determination, it likes or dislikes the Government of the State and its partners. And that this must be a risk sport in a country like this perfectly describes the democratic quality of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.119.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on metro lines 9 and 10]] [[317-00154/11]] Fourteenth question to the President of the Generality, addressed to Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.120.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in 2002 the then advisor in Cap Artur Mas laid the first stone of the works of line 9 of the metro. On that day he made a promise: "Line 9 will be completed in five years. Fifteen have passed since then, and many Catalans ask themselves: "Lord President, when can you go from Hospitalet, from Santa Coloma or from Badalona to Lesseps directly by metro with lines 9 and 10?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.121.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.122.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, you're right, you're right. This is not an example work. Sometimes they say to us, "You don't recognize the things you do wrong. Look, this is one of those things that didn't work out. And, as we know, and this government is particularly upset, because this generates a financial burden from those governments that any government would like to get out of the way, we hope that when the time comes for the solutions, which are very close, to you and to the government of the State, we will find them on the side.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.123.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.124.0	Mr President, you are a specialist in not responding, in talking about the Government of Spain always. I'm asking you on line 9 of the subway, from here, your competition. And it's also that last week we saw his government make a big announcement – a big announcement – in Hospitalet: the neighbors are going to have to wait two more years – two years – to have two subway stops, two subway stops that should have ended ten years ago. And the neighbors have endured for years works that pass under their house. There is already the infrastructure made and now only the two stops are missing. Well, for both stops, you tell them to wait two more years. And on top of that, they'll ask you to thank them. You quickly find money for what you want. For example, EUR 70_million for the Catalan tax agency. But the 39_million_euros of these two stops, hey, it's hard for them to find them. Besides, Mr. Puigdemont, anyone trusts you with the calendar. I'm saying it because I think you have a little problem with the dates, and we don't just say it. In general, line 9 of the subway is a cluster of unfulfilled promises, of misconceptions that have multiplied the deadlines and the initial cost. And it also affects both the governments of Convergence – you have been ruling already since 2010, by the way – and the tripartite of Esquerra, of your partners. Therefore, of both parties that rule now. You always say that it is, of all things, the fault of the rest of Spain. Everything. If you do it..., you always have to transfer competencies, because if you do it you always do it well. Well, this is a competition of yours that is no example of management. You have been lying to Catalans for years with unfulfilled promises, years with excuses and always blaming others. In fact, I ask you on line 9 and again speak to me about the Government of Spain. There are hundreds of thousands of people right now in Catalonia who take an hour to get to their jobs, to get to college or to get to their homes because they lack infrastructure like this. And this should be a priority. I tell you, Mr Puigdemont, if you do as much self-criticism as you say: make fewer summits to repeat the 9-N, which is increasingly going fewer people, by the way, and make a summit to organize the 9-line subway. I propose to you. What's the answer? I would like today..., I know that it is not very funny for you to give explanations about corruption and the Vidal case, etc., but at least today to explain what measures your Government is going to take to push...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.125.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.126.0	...line 9 of the subway. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.127.0	Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.128.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madame Arrimadas, we have competence; financing, no. It's a little detail – a little detail – of nothing, but actually, it makes line 9 of the subway today not have the calendar that we announced and that we wanted. Certainly, there have been some very big things going on between me that have forced me to paralyze investments by the Government of the Generality and the Government of the State. They from the Government of the Generality are recovered; they from the State still do not. Here it is: if any government puts a thread to the needle to the solution of line 9 it will be this government. When the time comes for the solutions, because they are mature, we hope to keep them at our side and that they do not do as they have done with the documents to the general assumptions of the State, that they did not only present two that do not reach 600,000_euros, but that at the time of truth they have finished withdrawing them. It would have been a whole detail – a whole detail – that this concern that you say you have about the mobility of Catalans has prevented today's publication of the Journals: Adif and Renfe only executed a third of the expected investments in Catalonia in 2016. Great influence of Ciutadans on the commitments of the State in the mobility of Catalans! When you do, we talk about this – when we talk about this. [[Greetings.]] Because, sadly, there's a lot of... [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, you're not nervous, you're calm, you're... you're leaving me, please, to respond quietly? [[Pause.]] So, when we talk about what failed investments are that affect the mobility, this time yes, of hundreds of thousands of people every day. Mirin, the third additional provision of the Statute was key in the design of line 9 financing. You know, that, you? [[Pause.]] It was key. And the third additional provision, certainly, was not annulled by the Constitutional Court and continues to form part of the Organic Law of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, and is incomplete. And when a government predicts that it will have – because it says it the State, because it says it: « Believe me, we, the laws complement them – and put into it that there will be an additional third provision in which there will be resources to finance investments in Catalonia..., this government – here it was one of the mistakes – believed and assumed a policy of investments based on this financing. When this funding isn't because the government of the state is incomplete – and that's not an opinion, but a fact – you now bring us back: "Oh! It's that they promised something they can't finance later. So, miri, what do you want me to say? If the financing belongs to the Spanish State, I can only...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.129.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.130.0	...to advise the person responsible that we do not have adequate funding. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.131.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the deterrent effects that the threats of the Spanish State may have on the celebration of the referendum]] [[317-00156/11]] Fifteenth question to the President of the Generality on the latest political events, formulated by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Candidature..., of Junts per el Si. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, in the last few days there is an escalation of statements by institutional representatives of the State that we cannot go through. On one side, there are some, of statements, that you don't know whether to laugh or cry for the level they show; phrases of the type "President Puigdemont wants to make a reference in accounts to listen to Catalans, or holders of the type "the State will avoid the bad image of the world that is seen urns in Catalonia. But at the side of these, there are no more eloquent, and above all less understandable, statements, and they are those that are meant to be willing to do anything, and "everything," they say, to prevent the reference. Do not clarify whether everything means all in democracy or all in general, as in concept, statements that also imply very explicitly that if they make use of force. And to justify, if you come up with the case, according to them... they make another kind of statement that they want to create an environment that makes it easier. And in this sense they accuse... and repeat as the song of anger, they, that those who want to put the ballot boxes, those who want people to decide, that they are the citizens who decide, that we are hit, and they make reports that Catalonia is seen as an environment of a dictatorship. They say, that they don't stop hitting, or, using Ciutadans vocabulary, that they don't « kick democracy, it's already through Catalonia operations, eh? , and these days here in Parliament we see a good show, as you said – and you referred to it – the report of the Synod of Greuges, proposing and making a series of things that generate a clear democratic regression, through the weakening of the separation of powers, through the judicialization of politics and the politicization of justice, the persecution of public charges, etc. Those who do not stop hitting democracy have the pleasure of saying that we hit those who want to put the ballot boxes. It is for all this, President, that we want to ask him whether all these threats in the State somehow deter his government from throwing forward the call, the organization and the celebration of a referendum on Catalonia's independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.133.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.134.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, I will begin by the end of your intervention, your question of whether you dissuade us. No, no, Actually, it cheers us up. Because, you see the picture, believe that even those who are not supporters of independence have enough hopes of being able to overcome a Spanish state that, in words of people who are not independent in this Parliament itself yesterday, Mr. Ekaizer, has a specific attitude of a criminal policy – criminal politics – against sovereignism. Or what the exjugation Elpidio Silva said, not known for his independence: "The Spanish State is a state of authoritarian character. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's not nervous, calm – calm. For less difficult claims that these you have set up an investigation commission on Vidal's exjugation. And they should have an interest – they should have an interest – when people who do not belong to the sphere of independence make statements of this magnitude that go all the way to the foundation of the assumption. Therefore, dissuade not, encourage us; it waits for us. And I think a lot of people think that this is a path that began democratically and ends democraticly. Therefore, when the Spanish State, before a democratic path that must end democratically, says that it is willing to all and start to go back to tradition in Spanish politics, it is when and start to worry. Because I think it would be time for the Spanish government and the partners who support it in this strategy to explain to us, I think we deserve it, which means we're willing to do everything. Because it's everything. Is the Spanish government willing to use force against Catalonia? I think there's enough to play with this ambiguity, there's enough to flirt with the ends of the democratic system's seams, to flirt with the... [[Widow's remorse.]] I ask you, please, a little respect. I listened carefully...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.135.0	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.136.0	...everything you have to say. But these expressions, I insist, describe very well what their democratic understanding is. You don't like to listen to what others think. I don't care, because we'll feel the same way. We'll vote and decide. And that day, if you will, you can continue to laugh, but who will have had a good time and who will laugh of happiness and hope will be the people of Catalonia, who will finally be able to decide their future freely and peacefully. Therefore, neither discourage nor rethink, nor rectify or reciprocate: animate. And I invite everyone who feels democratized, even though he does not want the independence of Catalonia, to distinguish between the camp of democracy and the camp of non-democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.137.0	Thank you, President. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, President. [[Member compatibility situation]] [[234-00049/11 and 234-00128/11]] After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. The second item on the agenda is the compatibility situation of Members. The second secretary, Mr David Pérez, will read out the opinion of the Committee on the Status of Deputies, which has also been published in the plenary's file. I ask the secretary to read the opinion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.138.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. « The Commission of the Statute of the Deputies... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.139.0	Quiet, and please. We are continuing with the plenary session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.140.0	The Commission of the Status of Deputies, at its plenary session on 17 May 2017, agreed to draw up the following opinion: "Once examined the new data declared for the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé, relating to the profession she exercises and the public offices she occupies, and in accordance with Article 19.2 of the Rules and the applicable legislation, the Commission, in addition to the provisions of Article 18.2 of the Rules, proposes to the Plenary the compatibility situation of the deputy Rosa Maria Ibarra Ollé. And once examined the new data declared by the deputy Carlos Sánchez Martín, concerning the profession he exercises and the public offices he occupies, and in accordance with Article 19.2 of the Rules and the applicable legislation, the Commission, in addition to the provision of Article 18.2 of the Rules, proposes to the plenary the compatibility situation of the deputy Carlos Sánchez Martín. Palau del Parlament, May 17, 2017. The secretary in charge of the commission, Maria Senserrich, and the chairman of the commission, Jorge Soler González.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.141.0	Thank you, Mr. Perez. Can I give it to you for approval of this point for absenteeism? [[Pause.]] If there is, therefore, no inconvenience, let's go to the next point of the order of the day. The third item on the agenda was: debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the draft law on the creation of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency, but as a request for an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees has been made, this item on the agenda will not be taken up in this plenary session. [[Projects of the law of the Catalan community abroad]] [[200-00015/11]] And the fourth point of the order of the day is serious: debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency on the draft law of the Catalan community to the outside. However, since the deadline for the submission of papers, which is twelve, has not yet expired, I ask you whether, despite this situation, we can proceed to debate this opinion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Yes, the deadline for submitting papers has not expired. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That of the opinion, he forgave, of the opinion of the Guarantee Board, which is delivered by the Twelve. [[Pause.]] We ask you if we can do the debate and the vote of the foreign action law, given that it has not yet expired the term of the Council of State Guarantees, which is completed, ended at twelve. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.142.0	To answer your question, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.143.0	Thank you very much. [[Rialles.]] I can do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.144.0	We're not going to... we're not going to ask the Board of Guarantees for advice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.145.0	Therefore, we can continue with the fourth point of the order of the day, which is: debate and vote of the opinion of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency on the draft law of the Catalan community to the outside. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the Government's request, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of the Councillor of Foreign Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency. It has the word, therefore, the councilman Raül Romeva. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. [[Pause.]] Counselor Romeva, when he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.146.0	Yes; thank you very much. In fact, frankly, I wanted to make an intervention very, very short and very simple. In fact, to speak today, obviously, it is to the rapporteur and to the commissioners of the law, and I in any case would like to take advantage of this adversity to greet also the secretarial of Afers Exteriors, for the work that has been done, especially for the work that has been done for many years, not only the last months. This is an initiative that has been promoted since the government but has been repeatedly worked by the communities and many actors, both from the parliamentary groups and from outside, and we understand that in a very clear and very necessary way we are responding to the greater need that you have at these times in the outer part of Catalonia. It is a proposal that, ultimately, broadens what was until now an attention to the communities, the citizens and citizens who live outside, who reside outside, and they recognize individual rights, at the same time as a few deures. It was a job that was done very quickly. We had a good basis on which to work; I think this is important to highlight it. But I didn't need these last few months to have a job done by all the groups, and let me also specifically thank the work of the lethargy, Mr. Miquel Palomares, and of the Dolors Balagué manager, because I understand that it was, I repeat, despite the courtesy of this period, let's say, by warrant..., that I should take it forward. And, therefore, I believe that we are ahead of a moment that clearly responds to a need from the point of view that the law in force, which is that of 1996, had already been completely out of date. Obviously, many things have changed in economic terms, in social terms, in technological terms, and the need to update this legal basis. And, therefore, it also complements, by another band, that which is a package, that which is a legal thing conducive to external vision, which has, obviously, three key fish: the Law of 2001 on cooperation; the Law of 2003 on the promotion of the pau, and the Law of 2014 on external action. With this new law of Catalonia outside, we obviously complete a legal package that will give a specific legislative basis to some Catalan communities outside, also, in a way, I believe, very relevant. And from this perspective also make clear another time this vocation that we have, as a government, to approach even more this community that he saw abroad, for many different reasons, some willingly, others by necessity, but that, in any case, they must have their rights equally covered, as do the citizens who reside in Catalonia. It's our wish, it's our obligation, it's our commitment, and with this we can do it in a much easier way. Thank you so much again.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.147.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Jordi Sendra, who was appointed rapporteur, then has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.148.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Councillors, Deputies, Deputies, Foreign Secretaries, as well as the rapporteur of the Catalan Community Law Project externally, correspond to intervene today to present the opinion of the work done for the period up to the date. The Romeva Councillor explained the background to this bill and the need to face a new model of relations with Catalans abroad. I appreciate it, because that's why I'm getting rid of doing it; he did it, and so I don't have to do it. This bill prepared for the Government of the Generality was admitted to the Bureau of Parliament on September 20, 2016. On 9 November the plenary of the Parliament agreed to reject the papers to the totality presented and continue with their processing, which took place on the 16th of February 2017 in the case of the Committee of External Action, Cooperation, Institutional Relations and Transparency, with the creation and appointment of the members of the working party. From then on, the ponència listened to the most important voice of all: that of the affected Catalan citizens, that of the Catalan citizens abroad. And on the basis of this and the contributions, with hints, of the different parliamentary groups has been working on improving as much as possible this bill that we are bringing to approval today. I think we've certainly got a better text. On the 25th, the Foreign Affairs Committee considered the report prepared for the parliamentary groups and the papers presented to them and agreed to draw up the opinion on this draft law that we are presenting today. Those groups that have wished to do so have kept alive their text reviews that have not been recommended for posence. As the rapporteur put it, I would like to take a follow-up of thanks that are not people – people – sober. In the first place, all Members of the House: Members Susana Beltrán and Esther Niubó, Members Carles Riera, Joan Milián and Joan Josep Nuet. They've all done a magnificent job, in ponència. And even in disagreement they have been able to maintain a course worthy of the best parliamentarianism, worthy of the Parliament we represent. Many thanks for your effort, but be aware that not all girl contributions have been incorporated. In the second place, to the cast of the ponència and the commission. The legal advice and even the patience of Mr Miquel Palomares have been very important and decisive because this opinion can be brought to the House today. Thank you very much, Iletrate. Many thanks also to the Parliamentary Manager, Mrs. Dolors Balagué. Also essential was the advisory and government visit of the institutional relations of the Department of External Action, Ms. Debora Miralles, and Ms. Tamara Garcia, responsible for the Catalan communities outside the department. Thanks for a good job. He said that we listened to the opinion and the voice of Catalans in the world, and I would like to thank his help to the correspondents: Mr. Antoni Montserrat, Secretary General of the FIEC, the International Federation of Catalan Entities ; Mr. Albert Masquef, President of the Catalan Circle of Madrid ; Mr. Eric Viladrich, President of the Catalan Couple of Quebec ; Mr. Sergi Marzàbal, from Catalans to the World, and Ms. Núria Amorós, President of the Catalan Couple of Montevideo - I must admit that it was exciting to talk to her about videoconferencing, so far and so close. All of their contributions have been valued for the money and have helped us to improve this bill. We have a very good law. Now, ladies and gentlemen, it remains to be approved today in this House. I'll have occasion to refer to myself 'afterward, in my turn as the Junts for the Yes spokesman. And so far, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.149.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sendra. The parliamentary groups which have reserved lists to defend in the plenary will then intervene. In the first place has the word, for the defense of the papers, Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.150.0	Many thanks to the President, many thanks to Members and the general public who are certainly listening to us virtually. The first thing I have to say is that, unfortunately, so, these good intentions, we think it's the law of lost opportunities, right? It was a law or a draft law that seemed very positive to us when it did not only address the reality of the Catalan communities, but also the fact of the Catalans, the people, but in the end, therefore, it did not get there any more. We thought it was a lost opportunity, because it was a good time to talk about what's outside and what's not outside, to talk about the European Union, right? I said it then and on 9 November, and I say it again now: it was a good time to claim the fact that it is already a political reality and it is already a legal reality that in the case of the European Union it is an internal space, it is not an external space. And in the same article 1, therefore, there are claims that for a person who doesn't understand it and who first goes to this law, so, leaves many uncertainties, right? This law has as its regular object, according to the regulations in force, the mark of relations with the Generality, its institutions and the society of Catalonia with Catalans residing abroad and with Catalans and Catalan communities established outside the territory of Catalonia. A person who doesn't know what difference there is between outside and what difference there is between outside the territory of Catalonia. I insist, it was a time like to claim the fact that among the European Union we are among, we are at home, eh? And surely in this Article 1 it would have been very good to say: « external residents of other Catalans situated or resident in the rest of the territory of Spain. But you, therefore, did not want it and what they do is increase this confusion. As far as the register is concerned, it is true that all this time there has been cordiality and I also thank the rapporteur for this, but this is not going to happen, so when we presented our fellows, more than fifteen people, all of them, were rejected, right? And it's a difference in how to proceed from one another. We did vote in favour of the appearances presented by the Juntes Group for the Yes, and we didn't just vote in favour of them, but we listened to them with a lot – with a lot – of interest, and we took note of it, didn't we? I am not here to say, Mr President-in-Office, "Well, you have presented a message to the whole world. We presented a message to the totality, but you know perfectly well that the majorities of parliament were very obvious that they would fall on us, right? And that I don't think you're getting the point, so I'm sure it would be interesting to listen to constitutional law professors, public international law professors, who were thinking about this law, and so it couldn't be. In the appearances that you approved and we listened to in relation to the registry, you... two conclusions were drawn, right? One of them was a thing that was already, the first time that we talked about this bill of law, the deputy Nuet remembers saying to me: "You have a lot of damage, don't you? Because you're seeing something in the register that's not, right? And in the appearances, say, of some of the appearances..., some of the appearances..., of some who spoke about the register said: « Let's hope that this law starts because we want to vote. And everyone heard perfectly well that we wanted to vote. But it doesn't matter. This register was already 9-N and this register, in the end, only served because it was registered, so those who were already convinced about the bonds of a 9-N that, then, now they want to repeat again. No, I am much more concerned, and like Ciutadans, as a parliamentary group, we are much more concerned about what this register will serve. It's a registry that can't grant rights, it's a voluntary registry. Then who exactly is the purpose of this register? There are other articles from this bill that speak of the Generality's virtual electronic administration. We liked this idea, 'cause if it was about assimilating, huh? And if you didn't see differences between the Catalans who are here and the Catalans who are out, then it was a way to increase, to increase what could be the Electronic Administration, right? In fact, our correspondents told us that this register didn't work very well, that people didn't do it very well. Then again I insist, Members: why should this article 5 be used, I think, in relation to the register? It's a law... – and this, as a lawyer, so I'm surprised, but – it's a law that kept a perpetual legal insecurity, huh? You have rejected all the items, not just from Ciutadans, but also from other groups, which make reference to the Constitution, which make reference to concrete laws, such as the State of Spanish citizenship abroad, which was also a theme that even carried the CUP and in the end was withdrawn, huh? And basically what they left behind is: "according to the legislation in force, that saying this and things, therefore, is the same. And I say it's a deliberate legal insecurity, because, if not, they would have voted in favour of some of the issues that they refer to the European Union's right, that they refer to the Constitution, that they refer to the State of Spanish citizenship abroad. And no, and they didn't. On the other hand, we consider it an expulsion law, it's an expulsion law, it's a non-inclusive law, it's a discriminatory law. And, above all, we see it in Article 13, paragraph 3, and I read it – I read it – as it stands, right? : "The people who reside outside Catalonia and who, without having the political condition of Catalans, feel connected to Catalonia, their culture, their language and their personality as at birth can also be members, eh? Those people who are not Catalans, but who feel attached to Catalonia, their culture, their language and their personality as at birth. It's an article that clearly discriminates. And it doesn't just discriminate against all those people who aren't Catalans, understood in relation to their political condition, but it discriminates against all those people who have a different way of thinking, huh? That they think there is more than one language in Catalonia to protect – and it is not just the language – and that they have another way of thinking about the territorial political organization of Catalonia. And this is a very clear discrimination, and it clearly violates the person's rights: rights such as freedom of thought or freedom of conscience. Is that what they want, to leave out all those people who think differently? We, of course, so we can't..., we don't just disagree, but we also think that this should be reflected on. Because, moreover, the fact that this law, which will be approved today, does not have a consensus – because we with many of these articles disagree and therefore vote against it – means that it will have practical consequences. And I'm sorry – I'm sorry – because we got involved. We will listen to the requests of the FIEC that, as the interlocutor, no? from the Catalan communities or as one of the interlocutors of the Catalan communities abroad asked for consensus, huh? because what it's all about is that in these communities outside, so there's everyone and not just those who think in a certain way. I am sorry because we, in many of these articles, have only one way of thinking, that they are not welcoming, that they are discriminating, so we will not vote in favour. And I say that this has practical consequences because now – now – there are so many Catalans who no longer come to these Catalan communities because they feel that they were communities that were only the communities of the separatists, right? The ones who filled with one single idea. We, like Citizens, wanted to get involved. I was talking to the FIEC and I was at the Luxembourg couple listening to them. We liked them very much. And I'm sorry that... and that there were people, so he said to me: "Why are you going there? Because they're the separatists. And we say: "No, it's... Catalan communities must be the communities of all, regardless of the way they think or independent of the way they feel connected to Catalonia. Okay. This law has not been resolved, it discriminates, and it will make those people who thought this would continue in practice without going to these Catalan communities. And that really – really – is a big deal. In short, what would I like to highlight from our reflections about this law? It is a law, in the first place, that has no consent, that returns before the European Union. Or you, perhaps, already feel outside the European Union, because, therefore, the fact that it is an inner space, that we are at home, as members of the European Union, do not have it present. The register won't work. Surely, therefore, the government will spend money in the campaign to encourage people to point to the register and people will not point to it. Many Catalans will not go to these Catalan communities, as they did before. I mean that everything will remain the same, but more so – and it's a difference from 1996 – this law is discriminating against those people who think differently and have a different model of political, territorial organization in Catalonia. It's a law that builds consensus – the 1996 law was approved unanimously – it's not seductive. We do not see that it is a law that attracts those people who until now have not had enough. And it's an insecure law, which is already off and let's go. That a law remains legally insecure, so it leaves much to be desired. What would we like when it's possible? We will try to amend this law as soon as possible, including Europe, which also enters the Catalan communities. The register does not cease to be a wish and I cannot – a wish and I cannot –, and I think that where it has been "pressed is in the Congress of Deputies, it is in the reform of the arrogant vote, because this affects all the citizens of the State, and not only the Catalans, and therefore, to deepen it. And we, like Ciutadans, in the Congress, so we have responsibilities. And we want or would want – and when possible, I insist, we will – to be an inclusive law; to be a law that revolves around democratic values, democratic values that are in the State, democratic values that are in the Constitution, democratic values that we can, at last, share all, that are the values of the European Union, and that do not discriminate against people for reasons of their ideology, for reasons of their thinking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.151.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Beltran. Then, in order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.152.0	Well, good morning, thank you, President. Counsel, advisors, members of the Government who accompany you and honourable Members..., we debate and vote today a bill that will replace the existing Law 18/1996 of relations with the Catalan communities abroad, a law that, unlike the previous one, goes beyond regulating relations with the Catalan entities or communities abroad. In this case, the draft law seeks to establish a standard framework, and therefore to regulate relations between the Generality, its institutions, the Catalan society and the Catalans residing abroad, whether in foreign countries or in other autonomous communities of the State, and also, obviously, of its entities, that is, of the Catalan communities. So this law, if approved, expands the focus, focuses more on the Catalans living abroad as subjects of rights, and with this orientation will replace a law that we understand had been out of date, which does not respond to the current needs and demands of Catalans and Catalans living abroad. And that will do it by treating..., equalling the deal between the Catalans residing abroad and the residents in other autonomous communities of the State, as to the benefits of the law, as we were asked to do, therefore, the IFEC, the International Federation of Catalan Entities. First of all, we understand, as I said, that this bill recognizes citizens and citizens residing abroad as recipients of public policies of the Administration of the Generality, and therefore as subjects of rights and dues in the areas in which the Generality has competences. And this seems to me very positive and a recognizance to the 285,000 Catalans living outside Catalonia, many of whom, therefore, have had to leave the country in the later years because of the crisis on the fence, so opportunities that they did not find at home. And these Catalan men and women of the world must also know that from Barcelona, from the Parliament of Catalonia, we also take them into account and work to guarantee their rights. And, therefore, let us celebrate this recognition, which already sees from the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, on which, in Article 7.2, the political condition of Catalonia to the outside for the first time recognized. The text we are debating sets out a comprehensive policy aimed at addressing the immigrant fact, including the promotion of public policies, access to administrative services and services for Catalans residing abroad, the monitoring of Catalan mobility at an initial moment, where in many cases, therefore, there has been a lack of guidance, lack of information; the maintenance of its link with Catalonia during its external stay, and the encouragement and facilitation of its subsequent voluntary return. And this really seems to us to be the most positive of the law, articles 8 and 10, above all; 8 is a recognition of the rights of Catalans to the outside, the political rights defined by the State, but also of the rest, which practically means that it involves the extension to Catalans and Catalans to the outside of the rights of social character, health, education that already recognizes Spanish legislation but in many cases, therefore, requires an autonomous execution. And it's that the ones we've had the opportunity to visit, to know about some Catalan couple abroad, and so we have a relationship with their members, we know a lot of issues that affect these citizens when they reside abroad, some difficulties that this bill would have to help solve. In this article 8 which referred to the promotion, among others, of the right of access to programmes and services addressed to the great people, young people and children, as well as to the collective which is in a situation of vulnerability, and therefore to the necessary support of the Administration in order to live with dignity; also the right of access to public housing promotions, to health services in their temporary states in Catalonia, to facilitate access to teaching in catalá, to information on the Catalan reality by mediating radio broadcasts and television of information programs of the Catalan corporation. And it seems to us, therefore, important, and it seems to us, moreover, that, having heard the appearances of the people who did, somehow backwards their demands in many aspects. I want to mention Article 10, on international mobility, which, in the new wording, therefore, proposed for questioning, the result of a transaction, among others, with a socialist aim, establishes that the Government will have to articulate the information services, guidance, accompanying, relevant to the citizen who is planning to emigrate, in order to deal with the maximum information, with guarantees, with his project migrants, which has not always happened in the last few years. We know that in many cases many entities of Catalan couples abroad have ended up as a government agency, when they have assumed functions that somehow do not correspond to them, that correspond to the Government, but have offered, therefore, some services of information, guidance, of gathering of Catalans when they arrive to their respective countries of establishment. And this has been done without means, many times without recognition and on a voluntary basis. Therefore, it is the Government that assumes its responsibility at the time of facilitating immigration projects, that establishes mechanisms for collaboration with these entities and women for the duration of certain tasks or to provide these services. And that's why we understand that this Article 10 retrogrades that the Government, therefore, will also collaborate with the Catalan entities abroad that in many cases have provided this service, as well as a service to the receiving countries of mobility. Likewise, we recognize it included in the text of the encouragement of the return of talent. We understand that this is an incorporation – that we understand that it is from Catalonia Yes that it is Pot – that it has been very important. Many Catalans abroad are waiting for the Government's steps in this direction; they have expectations in a return to the country in a very near future, and the Government must promote social, labour, political conditions to facilitate this return; promote support measures for the return. And in this sense, therefore, we will be vigilant. For another band, I want to thank, and I know it's hard not to have made it to the principle, so to the rapporteur putting, to Congressman Sendra, the willingness to negotiate that he has had, the work he has done to reach agreement. We recognize him. And, therefore, despite the disagreements that we had with the principle, we must say that today we feel a great deal recognised in the final text of the opinion, and that is why we voted in favour of the issues dealt with by the question, many of which with socialist points – so we thank it again – that have been taken into account, and also the recommendations. And, therefore, we want to thank him. And, of course, also thank the electorate, Mr. Palomares, and parliamentary manager Dolors Balaguer for the impeccable work they've done. But he said that this provision was in accordance with the agreement reached, so the rapporteur was particularly important for the Socialist Group in the case of Article 5, which refers to the register, where we wanted to ensure from a principle that registration was not a sine qua non condition for access to services and services, that they are ultimately rights that must be guaranteed and that their exercise cannot be conditional on registration or not. And in this sense we feel satisfied with the new wording: public register, free, voluntary, as we pointed out in the papers, and also, yes, promotion of registration in order to facilitate – and not to guarantee, to facilitate – access to the service of services, and always in agreement with the regulations in force. Therefore, this way we are saved our concern and we feel disillusioned if we finally make a bad use of this register. I don't know if I remembered that a register of these characteristics, voluntary, can't be an electoral census. But, come on, I'm undermining it, and in any case, so we've preserved, like at least, the shapes. And perhaps this is why we have also kept alive the 28 and 35 documents relating to Article 5 of the register, because it would seem relevant to us that this register is attached to the Idescat, as also called for by the FIEC, and to promote the establishment of mechanisms of integration, collaboration, with other tools available to the State – agreed to cooperate, for example, between the Idescat and the INE – in order to be able to have the maximum amount of data on the Catalans residing abroad. We have also reserved and maintained two more items, 125 and 127, relating to the exhibition of motius, in order to include in a band article 7.2 of the Statute– for the first time, the political condition of català al exterior, I have not already talked about–, and also the Law 40/2006, of the Statute of Spanish citizenship abroad, which updates Spanish legislation in the field of emigration – which dates from the sixtieth years – which creates us rights of social, health, educational or legal character, for example, for all Spanish citizens residing outside, outside, and until now more than those recognized by the same Catalan legislation. And from here the importance of mentioning them, because they also correspond to us, in the framework of our competitions, to the compliment and application of state legislative provisions. The rest of the statements were withdrawn, with the benevolence that the transaction proposed for the article regulating the object of the law encompasses the set of articles, and therefore assured us that the regulation of this law is done..., it will agree with the current legislation, as it could not otherwise be. On the other hand, we celebrate that in Title IV, relating to the bodies of relations with the Catalan communities abroad, the Presidency has already granted that the election of the members of the council will be carried out according to democratic criteria and that they will perform their function of representation in the framework of their advisory and consultative purposes. And finally, but no less important, let us celebrate that 'nshagi added..., agreed to add an additional provision to guarantee the electoral rights of Catalans to the outside, and therefore, subject to what the future Catalan law fixed on the creation or not of electoral constituencies to the outside, will be the function of the government to veto for an ample participation in all the electoral processes of Catalans residing abroad and will have the right to inform these citizens of their electoral rights, and also to help the different political forces to bring them to their proposals. In this, in addition to being one of the main demands and problems of Catalans and Catalans abroad, we think that the right to vote, therefore, is a fundamental right and that the Government must veto in order to guarantee its exercise. In short, therefore, we would like to thank again the task of the question, which we feel recognized in the text of the opinion. I would ask that the change made to our proposal to speak of Catalan communities outside in plural, which is what they are – they are not in singular, they are in plural – apply also to the title of the law, which, well, is not yet there. And lastly, in order to stand up to the views of other groups..., respect those of Ciutadans, with some exceptions that we will vote against, above all those relating to the register because they want to eliminate them, or some that are very restrictive in terms of access to health services, such as 43, we will abstain from the majority of statements, because, finally, we do not see them badly but we understand that it is their project, and we simply do not add to it, and we will vote in favour of 120 and 121..., which eliminates the term "diaspora and this seems good to us. And, for what it does to the PP papers, except for some who are coincident and arise from petitions from the IFEC, which we will vote in favour, the majority will vote against them, especially for the will to eliminate any possibility of enhancing political relations, for example from the Government, when it is a thing recognized to the same State; because they are very restrictive for what it does to promote Catalan language and culture abroad, and because they are generally few friends of what is Catalonia's external projection. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.153.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. He then has the word, to defend the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.154.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, after the work of the ponència, we could say that this bill, which has as its title the Catalan community outside, has remained a little better than what the Government presented to us at the first moment. That is why I also want to add to the thanks that have been given to the rapporteur, to friend Sendra, to the rest of the speakers, also friends, and to all the chamber workers who have and have worked on this bill. A little better, I said, but only in a few points. Now some questions have been resolved that I have already stated in the debate of totality that they were clearly unconstitutional. There was, for example, a reference to public diplomacy that presented more than reasonable doubts about its constitutionality, since the Constitutional Court kept the suspension of all the articles of the Law on External Action that make reference to it, specifically from article 34 to article 38, because, as the Court's resolution says, this external action, huh? , this public diplomacy, is not linked to the exercise of the generality's own competences and can have a serious impact on Spain's foreign policy interest and its international relations, something else that the current government of the generality does explicitly. As a matter of fact, it's supposed to be, huh? The only external action that really interests the councillor of the branch is one that can harm, disturb, confuse Spanish international relations and not help the Catalans who see it alienating it. In fact, many times, therefore, it harms them. In any case, this reference to public diplomacy now disappears, and I value that Together for the Yes and the CUP, which are the parties that have basically agreed to this law, have accepted these criteria of the Constitutional Court. So does the People's Party, which I kept alive the papers, but with little hope that they could be approved, will vote against the text that is presented today. And we will do so because the main problem with the government bill has not been solved. Because the main problem was already a problem of settlement. It's a project that was only made with..., not only was it made with little legislative quality, as we could prove to the population – possibly it was made to correct it – but it was and is a project that is not planted as a tool to help communities abroad and much less to help concrete people, the Catalans who have had to go and live abroad. In fact, the counselor, from this Faristol, has been unable to say a single measure of this bill that can help the people, the Catalans who have come out to the outside. Nor could the rapporteur mention a measure, a tool that can help those who have had to leave for work outside Catalonia. It's a project that's thought out in communities, but to control them politically through grants, just like it's trying to control people now through the register. The Generalitat de Catalunya's approach is not to worry about the real and concrete problems of Catalans abroad, as do other autonomous communities, for example, the Galician community, to which I will refer later. Catalans abroad, councillors, Members, Members, need long-standing help, even after the worst economic crisis of our lives has been exploited. As I said to the whole debate, if I had thought of the Catalans who had to leave, I would not have proposed this law, now that we are out of the economic crisis and are creating places of occupation; I should have introduced it to the heart of the economic crisis and with other priorities. Now they're late and they're barely there. They arrive badly because they certainly do not want to help the Catalans but to the contrary: the policies of the Government want to profit from the Catalans who have had to leave. This is why they explicitly acknowledge the motivating statement that the Catalan diaspora plays an active and proactive role in the country's national construction. This clearly attempts against freedom of thought, because it is said: "The one who is not independentist, the one who is not with the political project of the Generality will not count, will he? , "with the help of the Generality. This is the counselor's concern when he presents the law, which helps him build a nation. And, look, the Catalan communities outside have certainly needed and need more resources and less national constructions; more economic help and less leadership and less political control. The Catalan couples, associations, groups or centers of the world are a support point, a first network where many Catalans have landed and have had to leave. This was not the foundational pocket of these couples and these associations – a foundational pocket that was closer, wasn't it? , to the cultural diffusion – but they have found themselves with the raw reality of the economic crisis. The fact that Catalans abroad need tools to build a better personal and family future. And this law does not offer economic tools... but offers the contrary, only offers political control. This law, therefore, does not cooperate with the Catalan communities abroad but rather subject them to the departments of the Generality. During the worst economic crisis of our lives, the Generality's priority has not been to solve problems but to create them; the priority has not been to devote money to improving people's lives, as other communities do; as, for example, Galícia, who helps people, the great people with social or health problems, the young people to alienating them with scholarships or those who need it with help to deal with problems of precariousness or subsistence. Not here. Here, during the worst economic crisis of our life, the Generalitat has reported in cooperation; it has reported in aid to economic internationalization; it has reported in aid to Catalans to foreigner, to mention only those parties of the presumption related to external action. And in turn it has multiplied in propaganda and other charges, in Diplomacy and its advertising, in lobbying and third-party payments because it supports the process – with little success, yes – in higher charges, which cover more than a minister and nobody knows what they do, and in travel, in more trips and more cars. For example, we have recently discovered that the Romeva Councillor is staying at hotels of EUR 1 000 per night– EUR 1 000 per night. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah... yeah, no... yeah, man, you'll remember. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You'll remember, Mr. Counselor, you'll remember... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. The day it was self-compared with... huh? They were self-compared, when they went to the United States, with Rosa Parks and said that the process was like the struggle of African Americans for civil rights. That night you slept in a bed of a thousand euros a night, I guess you slept well, huh? I'd do it all in a luxurious ministry suite. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Say it, you say it. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] Miri, Miri, it's an answer from his department. Mr Raül Romeva, five days, 4,300_euros for rent– five days, 4,300_euros for rent – you said, I do not say, a luxurious suite minister. They have detailed in aid to people, but to go and talk about the process, two minimum interprofessional salaries are spent every night of the hotel. One night to the ministry suite, two monthly wages. But the thing is not left here, the social sensitivities of the councillor and the generality are also shown in the register that here it is law, not fool us, the whole law is an excuse for implanting the register; a register that did not worry them when it could have an economic function, a function of helping the Catalans economically abroad. This register is one more tool than the process, which is why it emerged before 9-N, and for this it now comes back, when they want to repeat 9-N. It is a register that has only one purpose: to keep personal data to make an illegal reference. We know that the Councillor has recognized him in some communities abroad and, in fact, some of his colleagues have explained it to us. But the worst of all is that the counselor has already announced that only those who register in this registry will enjoy certain rights. That's to say, the councilman does a catalan chanting on the outside. Tell them: either you point to the illegal reference, or you point to this register, or you won't have the same rights as the rest of Catalans outside. Only patriots, therefore, will enjoy these privileges. Very badly, they do not only squander resources in hotels of a thousand euros a night, but they hinder the rights of Catalans to the outside. Very badly. That's right, they don't believe the old initiative companies that the Romeva Councillor has lost his social anima, he sleeps in ministry suites, from a thousand euros a night, but his entourage, too. That trip of five days, when compared to Rosa Parks, was spent more than thirty thousand euros only in rent, and almost one hundred thousand euros in total. It's a response from your department, Mr. Romeva, minister suites for all patriots. In short, this is a bill that is not in the service of Catalans, that is not in the service of people, but that wants to put people in the service of independent policies. A bill of law that does not intend to bring more tools to the communities abroad, but limits the rights of those who are not patriots of the referendum. This is an unacceptable politicization of the patience of many Catalans who have had to leave for social or economic reasons to other countries. That's why it's also the process: a political elite that goes around the world, self-comparing with Rosa Parks, Mandela, Gandhi, while they sleep in hotels for a thousand euros a night, misrepresenting Catalan resources and neglecting their problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.155.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Next, to fix his position, has the word Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.156.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, as I said the first day this law came to Parliament, more than 300,000 Catalans and Catalans are watching us. Well, not all of them, sure, some of them are asleep, sure, at this time, and the little ones sure they won't watch us, but what do I mean by that? Today, in this globalized world, in which the new technologies and allow us to follow a parliamentary session from Sydney or New York, there is no doubt that many Catalans and Catalans who live outside Catalonia and foreign us observe it. And this debate is a debate that we do especially for them. And, therefore, the first thing I want to say – and I'm sorry, because I can't stand it – is that if there is some parliamentary group that wants to give a little bit to the government, that I give it to it, but please don't give it to the ass of Catalans and Catalans who see it foreign, because these Catalans and Catalans don't deserve it. Then, in the past, if they want to be as messy as you need, but I don't pose, and I tell MP Milián, of the People's Party, I don't put Catalans and Catalans in the middle of this policy because, obviously, they don't deserve it. And that doesn't go with them at all. He said that these Catalans who are watching us today do so with very different eyes from the Catalans and Catalans who were already living abroad in the year 96, when the first law of Catalan communities was made abroad, which was already a pioneer. Today, these Catalans and Catalans are asking for many more things, I can assure them, that they were asking for them a few years back. And, besides, the profile of these Catalans and Catalans is also different; obviously, there are Catalans and Catalans who thirty, forty or fifty years ago living in Venice, Argentina, Cuba or France, but I can assure them that the last supplies of Catalans and Catalans..., some who have had to leave for the economic situation, others who have left for professional projects, simply because the world is globalized..., today the people live and work not only in the country they are, but they have seen and work in the world. And, therefore, they also have a different mindset. These people, it would be very important for us to listen to them. We have listened, in part, to the committee, but if you have ever gone to the Catalan House of Havana, or to the Buenos Aires House, or gone to London, or gone to Berlin, where there are well-organized Catalan communities, they would say things that are in this law. Things they're asking for and sometimes they don't ask so much, but they do ask for recognition. And, in this law, this is present. Our parliamentary group did not submit a statement to the totality of the law, because we already knew that it had been the text presented for the government, so, through the committee and the work of the parliamentary groups, we could improve it and today we can bring a good legal text. And that's what happened. The ponència has worked well, I also want to congratulate Congressman Sendra, has done a good job and therefore, we are happy, because we have been able to talk. And all the groups, all of them, have incorporated items – all of them. We've incorporated them all, we don't have many, but all the groups have incorporated reviews, all the groups have participated in the transactions, which have improved sensitive aspects of this law. And this is an objective fact that I think needs to be recognized, and obviously, so I recognize it, and my parliamentary group recognizes it. To say, of course, that the first demand made by Catalans and Catalans living outside Catalonia is that they want to vote – they want to vote for a lot of things, huh? This is the first one we've ever had. This debate will be particularly important when we debate the law of electronic voting again, and then we can talk about whether this is a vantage point, not a vantage point, it is a good instrument or it is not a good instrument, but it is true that in elections to the Parliament of Catalonia only 6_percent of these hundreds of Catalans and Catalans who can vote is a genuine democratic fraud. But I am not there, because we will have a moment to debate what happens with the vote of Catalans and Catalans, but this is a first demand, because if there is a fundamental political right, it is claimed for these communities of Catalans and Catalans, who follow Catalan politics, not as it has been a few years ago, but today they follow it in a constant and continuous way and because they are aware, like us, that the country sees an exceptional moment, therefore, these Catalans and Catalans, want to vote. And this is a first topic that we need to know or recognize. Second place, you don't want to feel Catalans in second place. They want to feel Catalans first, like they're living in one of the cities where we live... and people, where we live who we are here. And so, this one has to recognize them in a special way. And I am satisfied with the wording of Article 2, in its first part, Mrs Niubó also quoted it, because I think it is an adventure that we are making. Now we no longer speak only of the communities of Catalans and Catalans, we speak of the Catalans who live abroad, who live outside Catalonia. What it says: "The Generalitat recognizes the Catalan citizens residing abroad as recipients of its work of government and its public policies. This recognition involves the consideration of Catalan citizens abroad as subjects of rights and rights in the areas where the Generality possesses competences. So, this is a very important adventure with respect to the past law, because before there were communities, and more. And now, there are communities, obviously, but there are Catalans and Catalans with names and surnames. And in order to keep, Catalans and Catalans, with names and surnames, we need, partners and friends, a register. Because we can't talk about Catalans if we don't have a list of who Catalans are. And, therefore, the register is an instrument. Obviously, with the register, as with so many things, good things and bad things can be done, but we cannot prejudge that the Catalan and Catalan register, this government will make it serve badly. This can't be prejudiced; if he serves badly, we'll criticize him, this moment will come. What we can't say is there's no record, that's not possible. That's not possible, because then we won't know who these right subjects are that we're saying in the law that they exist, and the right subjects, I repeat, they're names with names and surnames, they're people, they're physical people and we need them to be registered. Other rights in which the law also makes a qualitative leap: cultural rights; linguistic rights; rights, obviously, political – I have referred to it –; social rights; also accompanying and advising – a theme in which the Government of Catalonia has to advance and improve –, accompanying the people who have to leave and, obviously, returning. We have a specific law for the return, which is old, but the return is important. The people who voluntarily want to return must find the easy way that their public administration facilitates them to return, perhaps after many years, from a place where they have been living and working, and that they want to return to their land, that they want to return to Catalonia. Therefore, this is also a matter of substance. To say that it is true, Catalans abroad are one of the most important external projections we have. And, therefore, it's a part of our public diplomacy. They think that if one day this country were independent, because of its physical dimensions, the Catalans and the Catalans living abroad, they would continue to feel a fundamental political good in order to be able to have a presence in the world. Therefore, we have to take care of them because, before we say it too, I quote again that it was the deputy Niubó, who made a great intervention and that I will not repeat: « These Catalans and Catalans, in many places in the world are Catalonia. There's nothing but them and them. And possibly in the future we can't even aspire to an embassy or a consulate. Therefore, this law is truncated for a small country like ours, which will continue to feel small regardless of the political process that we are entering here. And, therefore, these Catalan communities are of fundamental importance. I'm done. I think he's done a good job. Our group will vote against the Ciutadans and People's Party statements because they are counterpossible philosophies to which we are defending here. We reaffirm that part of the political opinions that exist in this forum are harmful, do not answer the objective debate of the law that we are talking about, are another visit from Catalonia and another willingness to build this country, but we are with these 300,000 and Catalan and Catalan refugees who, without any doubt, are a bunch of this land. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.157.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.158.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, on the part of our parliamentary group, we can express the satisfaction, the joy that we can finally dispose of, we can have a law on the Catalan communities abroad. That sounds like a..., sense of doubt, a lot of good news. And in this sense, we want to express our gratitude and congratulations to everyone who has contributed to it, to everyone who has worked with it: the Government, the parliamentary groups that have made their contributions to it, the Catalan entities abroad, the people who appear... And, of course, we have been able to appreciate the enormous value of the contribution, of the contribution of the reader and of the parliamentary manager, in this case, a contribution that we also want to aggravate. I would like to make a special mention of the more meritorious task of Deputy Jordi Sendra, who has actually made a very constructive and very positive contribution so that today we can hold the Law of the Catalan Communities on the outside on the table. Well, entering first into the context that motivates this law, we must say that it represents a very important name of Catalan citizens and citizens, who do not live in our national territory, but they do live in other countries of the world feeling bound to our country, feeling bound to their birth. According to the data of the INE, a total of 264.034 Catalans are registered to the Spanish consoles of the world. This meant an increase of 21,964 people in one year, a 9.1_per_cent in 2015, the highest in recent migration history. These figures do not include, however, those persons who have adopted the nationality of the host country, of whom no official data, nor the second or third generations of Catalans, who have normally adopted the nationality of the host country. This represents an increase of 120,032 Catalans residing abroad between the years 2008 and 2015, when the migration from the crisis begins and is consolidated many family situations that move from temporary migration to long-term migration. And still with some data that seems to us to be relevant so as to have a clear awareness of the magnitude, the size and the importance of the issue we are addressing, the Electoral Center Office has published the data of the electoral census of absent residents, the CERA, the first October 2016. And the number of Catalan major members of the division, with a right to vote, stands at 213,610. This represents an exceptional increase of 17,888 voters between October 15 and October 16, and 17,008 voters respect the 196,602 registered voters who were entitled to vote in the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia on 27 September 2015. All this, to reasonably justify a xifra more than likely of Catalans enrolled in the consoles of 284,000 people. If we speak, moreover, of the people hidden in Catalonia and residing in other communities of the Spanish State, expelled, however, the Catalan Countries, are 409,000 people more to add to it, according to the data of the continuous pattern of the same INE. And if we talk about all those people, especially those living abroad, who have not made the step of giving themselves up on a consulate, and that is to be heard because Spanish legislation or in general consular administration, is very little active in making people take the step of registration, particularly in the European context, so surely the xifra is much higher. Therefore, we are talking about a collection of Catalans and Catalans outside important, significant, represented, with an important and growing demographic, who deserve the greatest attention of our country for their recognition, for the support they deserve and for the sake of linking us - there in a way as active as possible. It is obvious that, looking at these approximately 284,000 registered Catalan people who are outside, they are not people who have emigrated for a single reason. The reasons are multiple: there are academic reasons, there are scientific reasons, there are working reasons, family reasons, all kinds of reasons, who are the ones who make that at a certain point a person makes the decision, always complicated, to emigrate. The problem is that if we look at the figures of the PERE, the pattern of Spanish residents in the foreigner, during these later years we see that in the normal years, they understand as normal in 2003 or 2004, that is to say, those that correspond to previous statistical series standard, were years in which in which we could consider the structural emigration from Catalonia was between two or three thousand people. At these times, we're in numbers close to twenty-thousand people a year. As a result, something is going on these past few years to make a paradigm shift so big and that if it is a country, especially in the past few years, characterized to be acquittal, at these times, to the band of continuing to acquit immigration, we follow a country that is also producing a very important emigration. A country that is decapitated laborily and intellectually is a country that has a serious problem that threatens not only the future, but also its present. Since the CUP - Crida Constituent we know very well that emigration, particularly the precarious one that we also know at home, is a structural characteristic of a capitalist system, which uses the mobility of human resources in the most beneficial form and way at every moment for its economic and geographic interests and priorities. Entering first into the text of the law that we will approve today, in general, we have given support to the papers presented for the International Federation of Catalan Entities and we have also added some of our own. We must express our satisfaction because most of our discussions have been dealt with and only a small part of those that were ultimately not possible to deal. We will, of course, vote in favour of the text that is presented today. We shall not vote in favour of those points which other parliamentary groups have decided to maintain. And even though they haven't been traded, as I said, all of our papers, we think that this is a strategic law, that it's a national priority law, and so as to strengthen the consensus and unity around the text that is presented today, we have decided to withdraw the non-transaction papers. We also want to make it clear that this law does not fully satisfy us. It's not the law that we would want, it's not the law that we would have introduced; for two blocks of raons, mainly. One, from the point of view of the social rights, which seem to us insufficiently recognized and collected; from the point of view of the promotion and teaching of Catalan language, which also seems to us insufficient for what it does to the measures, actions and resources that this law previews. Also, due to the insufficient view that it deserves the national mark of the Catalan Countries in the treatment of the law; for the rights of information, which also seem insufficiently collected from us; as well as for the aspects related to political participation, political rights, voting rights, which also seem insufficiently collected from us. But also for one main reason: this is still an autonomous law. It is an autonomous law and we want, of course, to be able to already have a national law, a republican law of Catalan nationality and of Catalan citizenship abroad. However, with all these shortcomings, shortcomings and probabilities, it seems to us that it is a law which, in the sense of doubt, represents a progress in accordance with previous legislation and which effectively, despite our criticisms, is a law which, in the sense of doubt, also represents an adversity for which it makes social rights, recognition and support to the Catalan communities externally and to the Catalan citizenry externally, and also represents, in the sense of doubt, some hopeful advances in the field of participation. As I was saying, it's an autonomous law. Some parliamentary groups have said that everything is going on, then that they are in conditions of doing it, they will want to modify it; we too. We hope that in the next few months, as soon as possible, we will be able to make a new law: a new law from the Catalan communities to the outside, a new law from Catalan to the outside, a republican national law from Catalan to the outside, where in reality our citizens, Catalans and Catalans in other countries of the world, can exercise their political, civil and social rights fully as citizens and citizens of a new independent republic. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.159.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, has the word Lord Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.160.0	Thank you, President. Let me, first of all, thank all the spokespersons who have been kind enough to recognize the rights of the rapporteur. We wouldn't be here today if you hadn't been through everybody's work. Therefore, here all the spokespersons, all, absolutely all, those who voted in favour of it, those who voted against it – all – have a lot of merit and nobody has to be personified, but it's everyone's job. On November 9, 2016, he intervened in this plenary, when the parliamentary process of this law began. Then he explained that since the Law of 96, which had passed twenty years ago, had changed many things in our house, they have changed many things in Catalonia, and that somehow that Law has become obsolete, because the reality and the needs of Catalans to the world have changed and we have to adapt it to Catalan law. We needed to regulate not only Catalonia's relationship with its external entities, but also with the citizens individually. And we did. This new law guarantees Catalans outside access to the service in the same conditions as citizens residing in Catalonia. The Deputy Nuet said: the citizens abroad, the Catalans abroad are not second-class citizens, and therefore they must re-enter and re-enter the service in the same conditions as the citizens who reside in Catalonia. In this work we have reflected the rights of which Catalans residing abroad are subject, which add to the rest of the rights recognized for the current legal order. We have approached the fact of emigrants, the return of talent; respect for human rights in relations with the outside world. We have also included the various forms in which these Catalans organize their lives outside the country and as the Government of Catalonia has to relate. And we have taken special care also to recognize the reality of those communities that live in the Spanish State, that do not... somehow feel discriminated against and that we have also looked to implore them into this law. Because it is obvious that they are also Catalans who deserve all our respect and that they probably, without having the political condition of catalá, consider themselves enough in this country to have special attention on the part of the Government and on the part of this Parliament. We have also revealed the need to renew the impulse to the Catalan Register abroad, so that we can identify them. We need to know who they are. Mr Nuet said: "We need to know who they are. And we need to know who they are to facilitate them more easily..., make them easier to access the services and services they, as citizens of Catalonia, have. The register works, we have to push it, it has to work better. And that's why it was also important to deal with this issue in the law. How important it was to talk about the information needed for Catalan citizens, information through the information programs of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation, or on distance education with the use of information and communication technologies, or on services that allow them to live in a dignified way, or on the teaching of Catalonia's own language, etc. We have also made clear the transcendental role that the Catalan communities outside play in supporting our fellow citizens living outside Catalonia. And, therefore, we have endowed them for the law with an official recognition, and a support of our government. I'm not going to be in the law anymore, I'm going to be in the graces. If before, like the rapporteur, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their task in the sense of the question, now, like the spokesman for Junts for the Yes, I have to make an explicit thank you – I return the pilot – to the deputy Carles Riera, spokesman for the CUP - Crya Constituent, that at all times and after the good beginning of the work of the question has shown a clear predisposition to find a solution to every problem that was raised, that has not been raised a few. We've always found a way to the mig. His complicity and willingness to come to terms so as to approve the law has been very clear and coughing, I appreciate it, and it is important to make it known. Also, to the Catalonian spokesman Yes, it is Pot, Joan Josep Nuet, who has also been, as usual in him, able to make two passes back to make one forward, and who has given constant support to Juntes for the Yes and to the CUP in these jobs. Also, to Congresswoman Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, who has been able to dialogue to find the solution at some point where we were stuck. On the subject of the register we could not find it fit, and, finally, therefore, on the basis of dialog we have obtained a writing that has been satisfied by everyone. Today Together for the Yes, the CUP - Creed Constituent, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and Socialist Party have, they will exercise a very and very qualified majority to approve this law: 100 deputies out of 135. I'm an islander. I thought the People's and Citizens' Party, which they have shown in the work of voluntary collaboration, is today's summary to this majority. But, as I said, I know an illus, because you continue to live in the world of good and evil – the good, the not ‘indepes'; the sorrows, the ‘indepes'; you continue to speak of discrimination and of not making a law about democratic values; you continue to feel victims of the process until you start talking about things that don't come down, today – Mr.Milian, there are things that you have said that don't come down, today, here. Listen, we've made a law for all Catalans abroad, which will help all Catalans abroad. Discriminators are you. And doubting this law – doubting this law – is precisely lacking democratic values on its part. Today is a day of satisfaction for our citizens living outside Catalonia. We have a better mark. Definitely not the best possible. Surely we could have done better; we will have had occasion. As Deputy Riera reminded the Deputy of Ciutadans..., she explained to us that as soon as they could look to change the law. I don't know when it'll be. Anyway, I'm telling you, when we look at her changing, it'll be when we're already in an independent country. I repeat, and in the end, it was a meritorious job on the part of all members of the ponència. I want to thank them all for their work. And, like it's a day of satisfaction for 300,000 citizens living outside Catalonia, I think it's worth celebrating. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.161.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sendra. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs Beltrán, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.162.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.163.0	Thirty seconds, Miss Beltran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.164.0	Well, I am grateful, therefore, for the cordiality that this question has had, but the rapporteur did not try to negotiate the more than forty points that we have presented by the Ciutadans Group, which we are also representing the citizens of Catalonia, as they have done with other groups. I believe that this is to be highlighted, in the same way that there are articles in this law that objectively discriminate, such as Article 13.3. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.165.0	To see, in the first place, we will vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans; then, those of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia; in the third place... No, I forgive, in the second place, those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. Firstly, those of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group; secondly, those of the Socialist Parliamentary Group; thirdly, those of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia; secondly, we will vote on the two technical points, and, finally, we will vote on the text of the opinion, which also, at the request of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we will vote separately, and, lastly, we will vote on the remainder of the opinion. Okay? [[Pause.]] We call the vote for the last time. [[Pause.]] First of all, therefore, let us vote, as we have said, on the opinions of the Group of the European Parliament in Ciutadans. Vote the exams number 4, 8, 9, 17, 18, 20, 37, 38, 60, 68, 71, 72, 74, 79, 88, 95, 116, 117, 123, 124, 130, 131, 132 and 133. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on items 26, 35, 43, 81, 89, 91, 107, 109 and 134. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 36 votes to 96, with 1 abstention. We will then vote on the 120 and 121 items. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposals. Vote for exams 28, 34 and 125. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 106, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 127th. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 52 votes to 70, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the parliamentary group of the People's Party of Catalonia. First of all, we'll vote for Emena number six. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 27 votes to 81, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on items 13, 40 and 122. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 52 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 14, 15, 16, 25, 76, 80, 90, 93, 108 and 118. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 37 votes to 96, with no abstentions. We will then vote on the number 53 and 55 items. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 36 votes to 81, with 16 abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 66 and 101. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the technical papers, the number 1 and the number 2. The vote begins. The technical papers were approved by 107 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote on the text of the opinion, but in accordance with the request of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we shall have two votes on the joint text of the opinion. First of all, we will vote on the group of articles which are Article No. 2, letter e; Article 7.2; Article 13.3; and Article 14, letter i. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 96 votes to 37, with no abstentions. Then we will vote a_second group of articles, which are articles 2, taken from the letter e; 6 and 7, taken from paragraph 2; 8; 9; 10; 11; 12; 13, taken from paragraph 3; 14, taken from paragraph i; 17; 20; 22, and additional provisions 1, 2, 3, 5 and 6. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 97 votes to 11, with 25 abstentions. And now we will vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The draft law of the Catalan external community was approved by 97 votes in favour, 36 against and no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] I would like to point out that, taking into account the change in the order of the day and taking into account the Government's request, the proposal to make a change that is to substantiate the question number 12, concerning the planning and management of the airport of Barcelona this late, in ending the question number 8, on the model of tourism, and tomorrow, you said, we would substantiate the question located in point 13 of the order of the day, concerning the freedom of expression of the elects and the separation of powers to the Kingdom of Spain; we would continue with point 10. Therefore, tomorrow we will substantiate the following questions: 9, 10, 13 and 11, in this order. Can I pass the order of the day by acknowledgment? [[Pause.]] All right, all right. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon. At the government bank are the advisers of Territories and Sustainability, Culture, Enterprise and Knowledge and Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.166.0	It's part of the session. [[Proposition of law protecting whistleblowers and other anti-corruption measures (totality debate)]] [[202-00049/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The fifth item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposed law on the protection of whistleblowers and other anti-corruption measures. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.167.0	Well, good afternoon. He was talking about counselors, but how there is no counselor..., deputies, deputies, thanks for being here and listening to our proposal for law and debate on this issue. Good afternoon to everyone. Well, today we'll talk about one of the..., which is the second problem of Catalans, which is corruption, and it's the first problem of many political parties. But, no doubt, political corruption is one of the enemies of democracy. First, because it always brings economic damage; an economic damage with which we lose millions and millions of euros that end up in the pockets of the corrupt and that cannot be devoted to social policies. And that translates into data, real data; it is not a vague speech, but quite the opposite. Can you imagine how good we would be, for example, the nearly 7_million_euros of the Palau case? This would mean, for example, that seven times more could be spent on the energy poverty fund, for example, or about 1,300 children's education places per year. You can do the calculations, with 7_million_euros that have literally been stolen from Convergence, in the Palau case. In addition to economic damage, this scourge directly affects democracy and the credibility of the institutions. Citizens lose confidence, you know, in politics, in the ability of politicians to change things. And because of corrupt politicians, our system, which, as I say, not only costs us money, is greatly damaged, but it is hard for us to lose confidence in what we can do from our seats and from our parliaments. On the other hand, we have a third problem, which is the one that concerns us today, and is that it shields public administrations. Corruption makes public administrations opaque, often turning into nests, into real nests of corruption. Nests of corruption where it is difficult for light to enter from outside and that on many occasions the only solution to find problems comes from within, comes from people who realize such cases of corruption. Today we will see that that is not as easy as it seems, it is not as easy to say what to do then, and we will see concrete cases where in the end this is a battle between David and Goliath, in which David goes naked, without weapons, and goes very alone to fight the corruption he finds in the public administrations. We will try, modestly, to make proposals to help these brave ones not fight alone. And I say'modestly' because I am convinced that we can improve this text. Unfortunately, little is being said about these issues in this Parliament; more should be said. We have already introduced two anti-corruption laws; this is the second. The first has to do with Anti-fraud, and it's for the corruption whistleblowers. I believe that the fight against corruption must be fought by working, working hard in parliaments, talking with the different opposition groups, improving the proposals and, ultimately, doing our parliamentary work and demonstrating that things can change, especially from parliaments. This is the first bill we have tabled in this Parliament on corruption whistleblowers, but it is not the first. We have brought a proposal to Congress, a comprehensive anti-corruption law with very broad proposals, which has been the first anti-corruption law that has been introduced in democracy. And, therefore, we have also used part of that study, of those meetings, of those meetings with associations and with front-line whistleblowers, which have helped us to set up this proposal that we bring you here today. I think it's better to hear real testimonies in the first person, because we often talk about hearing what they tell us, and I think it's good to bring real testimonies of people who have seen themselves in this situation, who have been..., have wanted to denounce corruption and have basically committed the crime of being brave, of being honest and of protecting the interests of all citizens. I will tell you two specific cases, with which we have had the opportunity to be conveyed their concerns and their situation. In the first case is the case of Isabela, a public worker who has been working at the moment when the case of EREs, the case of training courses, is highlighted, and the truth is that it is a testimony that I want to share with the other Members, because it is really clear and places us in what we want to tell them today. He says: « I was very drawn to the attention of a company that owes our Administration money..., how the board could give it 180,000_euros. And then I saw that there were a number of training-related grants. She says: "I found myself real ruins, garages with shutdowns. It was so gross, the fraud, that they created companies that had just been set up, that they had just been discharged, collected the subsidy and were immediately terminated. How can they give a company that has just been set up, that the social administrator is collecting the active income of insertion..., and give them 3_million_of_euro? Then," she says, "we wrote that there were a number of companies that were receiving subsidies. And they told us what competition we were calling for to get us into their affairs. From there," she says, "I had been without sleep for a year, and I was not willing to give up on this. I was absolutely determined, even if I lost my profession, even if I was sent to the last corner of the world... that this was embarrassing and had to be said. My family never wanted this to transcend anywhere. It is essential that there be regulations in relation to all this, because it produces defencelessness in the citizen and in the official. Another case of another complainant, in this case Azahara, in the Aquamed case, in the detection of a number of irregularities that were being committed in improper auctions or improper payments to contractors, she says: "I am a witness to the Aquamed case, because I decided to report alleged irregularities. I studied the complaint with my technical team, but no one apologized to me, no one thanked me or the people we denounced. What they have done has been to continue to resort, until, of course, you run out of money and run out of will. If we don't get protection, then all this is going to remain the same. I have never regretted having denounced and I would do it again, I would do it again as often as necessary, but the price that is paid is a very high price. As we see, in the face of these testimonies that we hear... There are only two examples; there are many more examples, of course, unfortunately. But in the face of these testimonies, the only thing we can do is, first, I believe that thank all those who dare to plant in front of organizations that act as authentic gangs organized in the opacity of the administrations, thank them for fighting without any interest, beyond that of justice, for our rights and for the public money of all citizens. And I also think you have to thank them for playing if your profession, for playing if your salary, for playing if your savings, for playing if, on many occasions, your health, for having a fairer administration. But giving thanks is not enough: it looks very nice – we make a speech, we give thanks – but politicians can't stay and thank them. You have to do concrete things, you have to change what doesn't work. Because these two examples are just examples of the many cases of whistleblowers who suffer from these harassments because they dare to tell themselves the truth, because they dare to say: "I did not pass through here. Therefore, as it cannot be otherwise, we believe that what we have to do is change what does not work. And the only way I think about democracy is by doing it through democratic laws, improving them, modernising them. So far what has happened is that in this country, and in Catalonia specifically, the corrupt have been protected and those who dare to denounce the corrupt have not been protected. And I think it's time to protect those who dare to report and punish those who steal. Therefore, to protect them, we bring this proposal; a proposal that seeks to make this law more secure, with concepts such as legal compensation, so that denouncing it is not a problem for the complainant, but a problem for the corrupt. I believe that it is common sense: that the complainant should not lose his job, his salary, his health, his savings, and then the corrupt should go out of his way, if I may say so. He who denounces does not have to have responsibility, neither personal nor property; on the contrary, he is doing a service thinking of everyone, not of him, but of all citizens and thinking of everyone's money. To guarantee the secrecy of personal data – also seems common sense – during the processing of files, so that no witch hunt is done precisely for those who dare, as I said, to denounce the cases of corruption that they detect in their administrations, that they detect in their jobs, and that they do not want to pass over their rights. As I tell you, this is our contribution. You have the text, you can analyze it in depth. In the time we have, it does not give me time to get into more concrete measures, but it does tell them that this is our contribution and that I am convinced that we can improve it, of course. Today we come here with a proposal to reach out to the rest of the political parties, so that we do not make mistakes of enemies, so that we do not make mistakes in the crossfire. And I say this because I've seen these days reproach those who put forward a proposal to fight corruption, I've seen nerves, I've seen press briefings to three bands... I ask you to save energy, save energy, because the enemy is out, the enemy is within administrations, the enemy is within some of your parties as well. Therefore, save energy and let's work elbow by elbow. When you want to do a joint press conference, you can count on Ciutadans to talk about the Palau case, to talk about the Bárcenes case, for whatever you want; but what I do ask you not to shoot the messenger. I respect all the proposals made by the other parliamentary groups, and there is a Faristol, there is a democratic parliament where we can debate. From there, I understand each other's political interests, I understand each other's strategies – more when no proposal on corruption has yet been put forward by any of those groups that were in the press conference – but, in any case, what I ask you to do is not get confused. I also tell you that in politics you have to cry from home and you have to endure being told everything, even if we are told that this proposal is marketing, the same ones that to fight against corruption stick stickers on a bus. But in any case, what I want to make clear to you is that the aim is to reach out to all political forces to improve this proposal, that I am convinced that we can do the very best of all, of course, as it cannot be otherwise. But the aim of this proposal, the objective of our measures, is clearly not to get away with the usual ones, not to imprison those who dare to denounce corruption, not to have to hear more testimonies like those I have briefly read to them, of these two cases of corruption, of two complainants who have lost almost everything by daring to take action. And what I ask you is that, when we fight corruption, we should all agree absolutely, because it is not a benefit to any of the parties that are sitting in this Chamber, it is a benefit to the citizens who are out there, it is a benefit to the tax money that all citizens pay and so that we can invest it in better social policies, in a state of well-being and, among other things, to earn a little more dignity this profession, especially for those who do not believe in corruption and especially for those who want to fight it every day. So thank you very much, and thank you for your attention. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.168.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.169.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counsellor, Members, Members, our parliamentary group will support the handling of this legislative initiative presented by Ciutadans, because the mechanisms to act against corruption must be or must be successful and, in view of the accumulation of cases in Spain, also in Catalonia – I won't talk to you about it, eh? – it does seem that these mechanisms at our disposal have not acted in an effective way, has it not? I won't talk to you about any concrete case. Yes, I will talk to you about an issue that seems scandalous to me, from my point of view, that is the tax fraud in this country, twice as many of the European Union's countries, and that I believe today that we all were amazed to know that precisely that figure that has to pursue many of these issues, the anti-corruption prosecutor, therefore, had a company based in Panama, right? I still don't know how you didn't resign this gentleman, did you? Someone had him fired. But, back to the topic, all the experts who have gone through the different commissions created in this Parliament, commissions that have affected concrete themes of corruption, or the later Commission of Study against Corruption and fraud, tell us..., to the band of other questions that have asked us that they are rules through laws, one of the themes that has originated the most consensus of the experts who have appeared is the real need to protect people who can report irregular or directly susceptible practices of corruption. Therefore, from our point of view, it is necessary to establish a clear legislation, an institutional framework that protects performance..., that can suppose a damage from a point of view of discrimination or disciplinary towards those people, to those workers and public workers that reveal suspicious acts of corruption or action. Therefore, we also have to fix how the hierarchical officials of each administrative unit of the Administration are to act, be in this case the Generality of Catalonia, be together, eh? , so that such acts of reprisal do not occur on those persons who decide to report irregular attitudes to their administration. We believe that the workers in the public sector should be protected, but also those in the private sector who contract with the Administration, not only those who are fixed staff, but also people with temporary contracts, former workers, consultants, contractors, anonymous, normal people, who have knowledge of irregular actions or actions of the Administration, I repeat, directly likely to implore them in the definition of corruption. It is necessary to guarantee by law that protection is solid, that it is regular, that I repeat, the sanctions to be imposed if the chain of protection is broken and if objectively there has been reprisals, because, of cases, all of us have not arrived, all of us have come to see people who dared to take this step and then found themselves difficult in their place of work. It is also necessary to guarantee the complainant's freedom of expression, to protect his identity throughout the process, to protect the guarantees of continuity of his professional career, to guarantee for him his own..., we must give economic guarantees, in such a way that his struggle against corruption cannot suppose an economic detriment. It also regulates the right to free legal assistance. It cannot be that those people who decide to take the step, who decide to denounce, have to compromise their assets in order to face up to some of these complaints. Also regular independent offices, beyond the Anti-Fraud Office. We probably have to have independent offices within the Administration and in each of the administrative units of which we have or which are part of the Administration, so that we can control this type of illegal, irregular, or politically or technically responsible activities in each of the departments. It is time, from our point of view, to have specific legislation that clearly regulates the situation of the whistleblower, the whistleblower, who contemplates all these characteristics and cases that I have exposed to them. We... I think this one's going to pull you forward, and I'm going to announce to the congressman that we're going to submit papers with the will to try to improve this text, aren't we? Therefore, we will give support, I repeat, to start the process so that the Administration of the Generality rules in its functioning manage all the right that the alerters have, as other parliaments have already done in the Spanish State. We also say that we believe that it would be opportune that, beyond having a legislative regulation in Catalonia, there is also a regulation at the level of the State that makes a parachute of all these questions. And they just said that all the measures to fight corruption must be welcome to strengthen our democratic system, because the corrupt practices that they are going to laminate the flotation line of the democratic system. And tell them that it's obvious – and I finish as I started – that this is one of the conclusions that the Commission of Study against Corruption, which we were debating a few weeks ago, I think two or three full steps back, is one of the conclusions that we approved all the papers in this committee. Therefore, welcome is this initiative presented today by the Ciutadans Group, but it was already on the agenda of the dues that we had to make all folds in this Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.170.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, to fix his position, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.171.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, today the Citadans Parliamentary Group brings us a bill that addresses one of the many aspects of the fight against corruption and, as has been said, this is a problem that romans in Catalonia, as it happens in the State, among the first causes of concern for the citizenry. And there's no shortage of reasons: from the Gürtel plot to the Lezo operation, the scandals happen and ride, and we have three-wayers, senior leaders of the Spanish ruling party accused, and the same PP, as in such political formation, and the same president of the government, who will have to declare before the National Audience. There's been talk about our prosecution's eccentric situation. But here, in Catalonia, I would say that the situation is not to throw coets either. The party of the President of the Generality has its embargoes and a whole series of open judicial proceedings– 3_per_cent, the case Palau, ITV, Pretòria – gives the measure of a problem that for its systemic proportions hung, as was well said in this Faristol, the credibility of democratic institutions. And speaking of credibility, let me make a parentheses to announce that we will ask for explanations as to why the lawyer of the Palau de la Música Consortium finally refused to accuse Democratic Convergence of the last opportunity the prosecution offered him today, huh? It is seen that there are practical powers that are much more powerful than the same will of the Parliament of Catalonia. We'll talk about it. The recent life of this chamber, therefore, has already been shaken by debates as intense as the crisis of the Anti-Fraud Office or the government's refusal to exercise its right as a particular accusation, which finally someone has achieved, on the subject of the Palau de la Música. It is therefore clear that this Parliament must respond with effective measures to combat this situation. The purpose of the law we are discussing is to focus on one aspect; one aspect that has been receiving, is certainly, each major relevancy, and is that of the complaint on the part of people who, many times, singularly, since the same Administration, have knowledge of irregularities or allegedly criminal practices and want to put it in knowledge of the competent authorities. And the experience of the same ongoing investigations has shown it. The usual mechanisms of taxation – accounting unions, audits, parliamentary controls, and even the most recent transparency measures – are insufficient and come, if not, to be mocked by corrupt schemes. Therefore, neither the investigations nor the action of justice can be successful without the cooperation of these witnesses. Therefore, without undermining at any time the right to honour any person or to question the principle of presumption of innocence, and therefore from the requirement of rigour, honesty and good faith on the part of the complainant, it is necessary to give guarantees and full legal certainty to the persons who like to take this step. And the experience and the cases that have been explained to us prove that it is not easy. And it is not only a matter of protecting these people from possible reprisals, that also, obviously, it is a matter of sending a very clear message to the citizenry and to all public servants, the message that the fight against corruption and the practical evils on us and that it is our duty to fight them and, therefore, the law must facilitate and give to those people who comply with their civic duty. Therefore, all those measures and initiatives that respect legality contribute to it are welcome. As an example..., because in the political calendars, laws and actions, and arrangements, as an example to the Barcelona Assembly, after a long period of preparation to design the computer device and a set set set up a suitable standard, a secure channel of electronic participation was opened named "Ethics and Good Governance", which leans from the Municipal Office for Transparency and Practical Goods. This channel, of course, does not interfere with other lives, such as the Barcelona heavy goods union or the civil service offices, which also collect complaints or reports of possible practical ills for which it does to the municipal administration or to any of the bodies that hang or are responsible for the assembly. The bust, and this from a conceptual point of view is important, has strict protocols to verify the data that I answer in order to guarantee the rights of the people to whom it is attributed a conduct that does not conform to ethical rules, and also preserves the confidentiality of the complainant, with whom it establishes a communication system that allows him to follow up providing information and, if the case so requires, its processing. A processing that can have as consequences from the simple correction of certain actions of the Administration to return the case in the hands of the prosecution if there are reasons to do so, if there are indications of crime. The information of the compass is managed for a direction of analysis services that acts with total functional independence and without being submissive to the management hierarchical order and that has the legal responsibility to protect the personal data that pervades it. Now that this is the only asset that securely guarantees the protection of the complainant, and it is an innovative experience, the first of which we have..., is a pioneer in Europe, and currently the Generalitat of Valencia is studying to develop a similar service and we would also like the Generalitat of Catalonia to be able to develop, study and develop an attention, a tool of this type. In a way, landing in the project, in the proposal made by Ciutadans, rather than sorting out this or another similar tool article 4 of the proposed law we are discussing, claims precisely from the public authorities – I quote – « programs of detection and persecution of practical ills, irregularities, fraud or any kind of lawfulness of administrative or criminal relevance, and raises the need for channels that guarantee the confidentiality of the complainant. Some programs managed for which – I also quote – "does not have any functional, hierarchical or any other type of dependence on the people and organizations they should supervise. It's all common sense, but it needs us to put it on paper and put it mostly in practice. As is also the common sense of the concern contained in articles 2 and 3 regarding the rights of complainants, such as the right to full legal compensation in their contractual or legal relations with the public authorities involved or affected by the practices complained of, or the safeguarding of the confidentiality of personal data during the resolution and processing of the consignment. All, as I repeat, elements of common sense that invite us to work, invite us to elaborate, to build an effective tool, which is the opposite we have in front. There are, of course, questions that, I think, merited discussion from the original proposal, as you may refer to the channel proposed for the parliamentary follow-up of the investigations of the Anti-Fraud Office, which perhaps deserve to be given a few turns, but in any case – in any case – more specific aspects or better than the work around the proposal will certainly enable us to achieve, welcome, therefore, a project that invites us above all to address a debate that, as you have seen, is rabidly up-to-date, sad, and certainly out-of-date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.172.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Next, to fix his position, on behalf of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word "Mrs. Esperanza García".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.173.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members... Well, it's one thing I've said many times, not to regulate anymore and in quantity the democratic quality we have, neither here nor in the rest of Spain. And we can understand from the People's Party that the difficulties of those who denounce corruption, for they are extensive and often go beyond a headline. That is also true of the legislative proposals put forward here. It is clear that this proposal requires improvement. [[Rialles.]] Don't laugh because it's true. Of course it requires improvement, and nothing happens. And we're going to be there, because, with five articles, we want to solve the difficulties faced by those people who report corruption in Catalonia, so it's complicated, isn't it? And it is true that there are many important elements that need to be addressed in that regard, right? From reprisals to the media exposure of people who report corruption, to job loss, which often happens or often happens when they work in the public sphere, not so much in the private sphere, and also a number of risks that are not included in this bill, which are the risks of false complaints, that I am sure that, in the paper, we will certainly be able to put it into practice, right? To be more concise, this proposal for a law, which you have presented in Congress and which is already being dealt with, has consequences; that is, it is less concrete, less detailed, and sometimes even leads to some mistake, which I am sure can be solved. First of all, there is indeed protection against anonymity for persons who report corruption. But that does not have to be reinforced in the Anti-Fraud Office, because remember that anyone who addresses the Anti-Fraud Office and denounces possible irregularities, be they administrative, be they possible criminal cases, are already protected by the right to anonymity. Therefore, it seems a certain repetition of something that..., for something that is already good, then, you have to claim it, right? But the worst part of this bill, the worst part and what we are concerned about, is that competences are invaded. So let us try to use the powers we have to improve that protection for complainants, but not to make it difficult. What the government does is normal, what an opposition party does miss us a bit, especially when it is the most critical when it invades competences. I have said this on other occasions: Criminal Code, Criminal Procedure Act..., there are a lot of proposed legal texts that are invaded with this proposal. But, however, we cannot oppose it, among other things because we already support it in its day, we support it in Congress and we are working on it. But we believe..., and I believe that it is important to reschedule the matter, I think it is important that we work on a common basis, that the common basis that serves as a common system for all Spain can also serve us in the autonomy, and that, therefore, being there in the process of amendment as it is and about to finish the presentation, I think it would be good to try, in the end, that for once there is some coordination between the legislative proposals that are approved in the common chamber, which is that of the Congress of Deputies, and those that can be applied here; among other things because... and not being anything suspicious of having any affinity with our party, even the citizen platforms that have dedicated themselves to denouncing matters of corruption and the fight against corruption, even members of control bodies who stand out or even members of the legal career, so tell us : it is better to develop a common standard, a common framework, and, through there, to use the umbrella to develop within the competences of each autonomy those institutions that can be improved and operate in operation. And I think that's a challenge that is very far away, sometimes, from a headline, but I think it would be very good to improve democratic quality if that's what we want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.174.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.175.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, well, we agree with the title of the law. I think it's hard, at least if you maintain a position in favor of fighting corruption, you might be against protecting alerters and establishing measures in the fight against corruption. But beyond the title it costs a little to see in this text something concrete that, technically and from the perspective of legal rigour that I think should be held at the time of planting these projects in the chamber, actually serves in the fight against corruption. Yes, I'm talking about legal rigour because I don't know who wrote this, but really, and that's what I'm going to try to explain during these two minutes, I don't share that it's really a law proposition that fits legal standards, like at least, that we're used to in Spanish law. From the start, there's a problem that in this case it's curious that I don't put on the Ciutadans table, which is the question of the areas of competence, isn't it? There is a..., I think, at least those that we have known the fight against corruption in the courts, in the administrative proceedings, so that you do not propose a modification of the Law of Criminal Adjudication, do not propose a modification of the Law of Witness Protection, do not propose a modification of the Law of Public Service, a modification of the Law of Contractation... That is to say, all that you say here is without effect, is a sea to the sun, because the conjunction of the legislation that details, that concretely, is mostly state legislation, that is not the competence of this chamber, and that, therefore, beyond the good intentions that may have this text, has no sense of effect. But it's that, besides, there's a barrage of concepts that cost a little bit of a pair. I'm so sorry. Well, that's my opinion. That is to say, you have at the same level irregularities, bad practices, fraud and any criminal or administrative offence. This, for you, these five concepts are exactly at the same level, because they appear in the law article side by side. Clearly, for us they are very different concepts and that each of them has a necessary legal complexity. From the start, you barricade concepts from the malicious perspective with concepts from the guilty perspective, because a bad practice doesn't have to be malicious. You sweep concepts that are persecutable from offices with concepts that are not persecutable from offices. You sweep concepts that are from the public realm of Administration with concepts that are from the private realm, because when you talk about fraud – "fraud, in your text – do not place an adjective on the side, nor do you just talk about fraud in Administration; you talk about fraud in general. And fraud in general, for example, would mean that it also includes bank fraud; it means that it also includes all those sets of fraudulent attitudes developed by private actors. I ask: does this also fit into the concept of fraud that you are planting? Use an inaccuracy that is quite surprising; for example, when talking about the local police. I am not clear whether the local police should or should not be receiving complaints in this area, but it is you who speak..., curiously said: "State bodies and security forces and local police. Ah, but that the local police wasn't a state security force and body? Because the Organic Law regulating the security forces and bodies of the State obviously included local police. What's going on is that you guys do a whole riot here in the middle, and well, and like what it's all about, it's basically about appearing and not solving, so you find all these complications. They present us with a concept, such as "legal compensation", which I don't doubt can be well-intentioned, but in the way the rule is, therefore, certainly naive – it is certainly naive. Why when they say ‘the non-conformity with law' – which I suppose they mean ‘the non-conformity with law' – ‘of acts, legal affairs or practices...' ‘Acts? 'Acts are administrative acts or are they not administrative acts? « Legal or practical business. « Practices? What do you mean "practices"? What are they, "way of fact? What are they, administrative acts that don't have legal coverage? I mean, what are we talking about here? From a legal perspective, I'm sorry, this doesn't go beyond a minimum... I don't know, a minimum rigor. When you say that this will not be in accordance with the law, what are you referring to? What will be nullified by the right? What will be voidable? What are we referring to? , the concept that was previously in Article 62 and Article 63 of the Law of Administrative Procedure? What are we talking about, when you say it won't be right? Who's going to say he's not right? What, a court of law? , an agency of the Administration? An independent body? And exactly with what procedure? By what procedure will this body, which we do not know who it is, proceed to declare that it is not in accordance with the law, that we do not know what it means, that it is not in conformity with the law? And when you say, in addition: "And all these measures can be left unanswered. Can they stay on hold, if you say who? Who can declare these measures outstanding? Who will appreciate the use of these criteria which you have here, saying that 'for objective and justified reasons'? Who values this? And who are these motivators? They make a minimum number to say which are the reasons that leave the rights that you articulate. Some rights that there is someone who does a little bit of shame, because you say they guarantee as right – attention, huh? Attention! –..., "right to the proper processing of your personal data in accordance with the rules on the protection of personal data. Home, therefore, to say that you will treat personal data in accordance with the Organic Law of Protection of Personal Data may not have to put it in a law, because this is already foreseen at these times in the Organic Law of Protection of Personal Data, it is already what the Spanish law says at these times, it is not to put it as a right of the alerters; it is not a right of the alerters, it is a right of the citizens' and citizens' joint, that we have, precisely, the protection of our data. So, well, I don't know, we're talking about the alerters and the fight against corruption, but, if we want it to have legal effects, we're going to talk about the concrete legal regulations, we're going to change the Criminal Law, we're going to change the Witness and Perity Protection Law, we're going to change..., in this chamber there are very few, that are still modifiable from here, but there are some that are, in the matter of contract, in the matter of public workers, and we're going to build guarantees; guarantees that they are real, that they are defined, and that, in the end, we can actually look at the faces of those who are alerters and give them tools to protect them from truth. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.176.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.177.0	Thank you, President. He'll advise, deputies, deputies, well, not present a totality statement and talk the last one makes it practically all said, right? But you have, in fact, had an ability, which is that you have put everyone in agreement to say that this law frankly is much better, let's leave it that way – let's leave it that way. Because you read it and say, "Host! Well, we don't know if it's a law, if it's a species of, uh, you guys, who are already presenting, right? candidates for possible autonomous elections, so, if it's a diptic that I have collated and presented it as a proposition of the law... well, we don't know that, do we? Because you really don't have a substance, do you? You don't have a solid head. And, from the start, say, it generates a little bit of stupefaction – a little bit of stupefaction. That said, clearly, in fact, I practically share everything that Congressman Salellas said, right? And he made the same list that I had pointed out; so I don't want to add much more to respect. But, indeed, we agree with the title, "protection of whistleblowers, absolutely agree. It seems that this is thanks to you, but it is surprising, because, among other questions, it is already at the conclusions of the anti-corruption committee that we were going to approve all the papers. In fact, it's one of the questions that has been repeated in the different appearances that there was in this commission and it was one of the objects that was marked by a lot of fellows, and I especially remember Mr. Llinares, right? , which also spoke, in fi, but also the new director of the Anti-Fraud Office, etc. It was that he went out repeatedly and there was a higher degree of, say, compromise on the part of everyone to pull him out. It is more – it is more – to protect alerters is not only in this Parliament or these parliamentary groups that we find very important here, that I am sure it is, that they are international recommendations, that this is why the United Nations, the Council of Europe, Transparency International, the OECD have not talked about in different international agreements. If there is an international commitment on the part of trying to legislate around this issue. Therefore, we... compromise is everything, as we also expressed it in his day at the Cemcord. But, of course, you usually do the same, don't you? What is it to come here and say: "No, we are the first; until we have arrived we have done nothing, etcetera, that we find each day, right? , and you have a point of grace, let's hide here, you have a point of grace, because there were different motions; there were different motions of respect. There was, for example, the coordination mechanism, which is also one of the conclusions and which was approved in one motion in this Parliament and which, moreover, is being put into practice. He has been working very hard on this issue in this Parliament, fortunately; he has two legislatures that have specific commissions to deal with and address all of this in an integral way. So, we... the compromise is absolute, it's total, it's firm. That's why we haven't presented the whole thing. Let's work it, let's work it a little better – let's work it a little better – because I think it's a lot better – I think it's a lot better, I think it's a lot better. But, in fact, our commitment is all there is. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You were talking... I know they're getting a little nervous. They're very nervous today, aren't they? In this House, I don't know why, because, really, we say, all the points are quite normal; but, well, I see that today they have the guts. That's all right. In any case, why does Ciutadans say that, say so..., that any day they will say that you have discovered the law of gravity, right? Because we've already seen it with the Mediterranean Corridor, we've seen it with endless fears that it doesn't seem to exist until you've arrived, which is, say, empirically false. But because you say, "You know," that you need the law better, it means that you yourselves are aware that what you have presented, say, is enough..., is quite right. And yes, we talk about cosmetics and we talk about marketing, that's true. You've talked about different witnesses, you're fine, but I don't think you've listened to the civil, social entities in Catalonia who are fighting corruption, which, in fact, we've also generated consensus with them, right? , to say that this is a marketing operation and that this does not address in depth, say, the problems that really exist in this matter. You have presented an initiative at the Congress of Deputies – the past year, at the end of the past year. And it's that all the groups, I think, except for the GNP, which he abstained, we've already voted in favour; all of them. If the compromise is already there! More than that, Madrid has the skills to do it. Unfortunately, not in this Parliament. But, of course, you intend to go, in the end, giving turns, as always, and trying to bow medals; no re. Actually, you... and that's funny, huh? I wanted to go over it, because I had a record of a young woman you yourself presented and what we already had, say, a chance to ask each other, right? , where you..., one of the points of the motion was talking about this law protecting whistleblowers. And, if you remember, my parliamentary group has tabled a motion. You were talking about making a bill, and my parliamentary group was asking for a joint statement. Do you remember? You rejected this – you rejected this. In fact, I took the transcript, and I said, look at it – I read it textually –: "Yes, we would have liked it if we had not accepted the slogan concerning the creation of the law, because we simply proposed that it was not the government, but it was the parliament. That is to say, we believe that to make a law in the matter of corruption protection of whistleblowers it must have such broad consensus because it was a joint submission. You didn't accept our message. We asked to do it together, because we think it's a good way to work together, if there's a higher degree of consensus! But you turned it down and said no, that you wanted it to be the government, that you wanted the government to make this law. Well, okay, so let's get to work: the government has already opened the public consultation to make this law, it has already made the public consultation to push this law, as a motion from this Parliament called for. But, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! Then, when the government begins, you say: "Ep! We present it to you, because we are the only ones fighting corruption, when we made a request to ask that it be the Parliament that you pulled this bill forward. So, of course, it's that you're seeing a little bit of the plumer – you're seeing a little bit of the plumer. And it's, say, colloquially, a shroud, if I may. [[relays]] , this law, because, finally, it is that it leaves the majority of things and there is an absolute legal insecurity – absolute. And Congressman Benet Salellas, so he did a good, say, diagnosis, right? And he went over point by point, article by article... he didn't have much work either, because with five articles... you want to bring all the whistleblowers, so to speak. All right, all right, all right, all right, all But, well, she did it very well, didn't she? Congressman Salellas, and he went over it point by point. Indeed, there is no model of protection, there are indeterminate legal concepts, they confound evil practices with corruption... In other words, you have an "important lie". Legal compensation is absolutely poorly regulated... You are oblivious to the control bodies of Catalonia, the right ones; they do not arise, they do not appear, it is incredible, right? They speak of the good faith of the complainant, who is certainly one of the international standards that is marked in this sense for the protection of alerters. They block data protection, but they do not say anything about the Data Protection Act that is in force. Anyway... they talk about plans, but they don't say who's to do them; they say that, so, all the administrations... So, yeah, it's a spot, right? When a man takes it, he reads it, he looks at it, he tries to see what it is, doesn't he? , and what solid it is, so, effectively, it means it's a spot. And it's hard to say it here, but it's just like that. And, indeed, there are many problems in this sense, many. Do we want to change this? Indeed; if we have not seen many in the Spanish State! We've seen how investigative commissions are blocked too, we've seen the anti-corruption prosecutor, who has, after all... the anti-corruption prosecutor of the Spanish State, who has a say in a company in Panama! Say, the person who has to veto the state against corruption! We have seen scandals in Madrid, in Murcia, with EREs in Andalusia, etc. Of course, we're not the ones who can stand the government in these autonomous communities – I don't know who you have to do it... But in any case, and in spite of – and in spite of –, therefore, we do see that it is, say, a marketing campaign, nothing happens, we will give it..., we have already given it, go, support, we have not presented the goal to the totality. We have a lot of hopes to be able to work with you to improve this text. You said, in fact, I'm much better at it. So we'll get to work. And I'm also telling you one thing: you go with it, you go with it because, of course, you've introduced here a law that skips the Constitution and the skills that you have, say, this minute Autonomous Parliament to which you like so much to limit your skills. I'm saying, you didn't find a fight to try to skip state laws from this Parliament, that there are a few in this Parliament that have passed us the same. Be aware, that it is not that you have also been charged for this matter. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.178.0	Thank you very much, Mr Gomez del Moral. The debate is over, and as no papers have been presented to the whole, this legislative initiative can continue its processing. [[Asking the Government about the book and creators]] [[300-00170/11]] The sixth point of the order of the day is: it asked the Government about the book and the creators, presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.179.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good late. This question, counselor, refers to the unfortunate situation in the world of book and retruc, and above all, that of the creators and creators, who are the first and the weakest trunk of the chain throughout the process that passes from an original text to this up to the hands of readers and readers. And I want to make it clear that I don't do it as much as the writer, as well as the educator, as well, but mostly as the reader. And it's that our times aren't good for lyric, as Bertolt Brecht would say. But it's not the German poet and playwright I want to talk to you about, but Ray Bradbury and his novel Fahrenheit 451, which I'm not sure you need to know. But allow me to do four brushes for whom I didn't get it. Fahrenheit 451 is a dystopian novel– a dystopia is the antithesis of a utopia– written by Ray Bradbury in 1953; the title refers to the temperature, expressed in degrees Fahrenheit, to what the books believe. I was there in 1964, when I was thirteen years old, and I was in a state of shock: a world where the books no longer interest anyone, it's a matter of a lot of strange people who can't live in a tech society, who are unworthy to live there; a world where the firefighters don't turn off fires anymore, because the houses are fireproof, but believe the libraries that still keep these things so strange. After fifteen years, I saw the film that on the novel made Truffaut, and from that moment I decided which book I would learn from memory, to keep it for posterity if one day a Fahrenheit 451. Bradbury's novel is in 2010. Now, 2017, I've read it again and it's got me a lot flattered than the first time, because unfortunately it's no longer a dystopia, but it's describing our world. On the news people interact with a screen all day long; Ray Bradbury was not able to predict that the pants would be so small that we would carry them inside the butxaca and imagine them as the walls of the room. People don't listen to anyone, they just talk to their pants. Study plans have long since been independent of history and philosophy. From little to little, the language and grammar have been abandoned. The diaries don't exist anymore. Is it not dystopic, is it very real? Says Bradbury: "There were no orders, no statements, no censorship – it refers to books. "Technology, mass exploitation and pressure from minorities caused this situation. We, counselor, are late, but we still have a sigh of time to try to avoid completely reproducing the Bradbury world. I know that you see it that way, because I know you have a personal library and because you have just published a plan to increase reading activity in Catalonia; a plan for which I feel partly responsible, because some of the ideas that contained them had been raised to you, counselor, before Easter. But there is not enough, counselor, to encourage reading, which is certainly a very laudable objective. It also promotes love for the book and interest to build a personal library. Love for the book, yes, already building books are in libraries because someone has written them, someone has edited them, someone has distributed them and someone has come to them. Without this chain, libraries, librarians and libraries would not exist. If we look at the book buying habits, counting the text books, we will notice that, despite the fact that the percentage of Catalans that bought some book at the length of 2015 increased until 47,9_per_cent, the average of books purchased – set in 2015 – has not stopped downloading in the last five years. In short, in the last few years more people understand books, but they understand less. In global terms, the segment that you sell most has lost in the last few years has been that of the children's and youth's book. According to the study of the Association of Publishers in Catalan Language, the sale of books for children and young people continues to fall free. Not the surprise, counselor, if I tell him that most Catalan writers have very precarious entries and if I tell him that in the last three years more than a hundred books have been delivered to Catalonia. That is why there is not enough to encourage reading, I insist, to encourage the personal library. In 2011 the European Commission published a study entitled The Teaching of Reading in Europe; the third chapter talks about how the family definitively influences the reading performance. Certainly, there are variables that cannot be changed; for example, the cultural and professional level of the peers. But there are variables that can change, such as attitudes to reading, reading activities with children, and the time spent reading and reading by diversion. Variables that surprisingly, according to these later studies, are as or more important than the first ones. For example, an alterable variable that has a huge incidence is the name of children's books at home. The study indicated that the students of the Scandinavian countries and the United Kingdom were the ones who had the most. In the contrària band, the one that had less was, among others, the one of Italy and the one of Spain. This is why, as is already the case in some other countries, they offer family literacy programs to help parents and seas in this task. Most of these programs focus on gathering reader interactions between family and creatures. The initiatives that are most strengthened are to give books and read high with children and children. This chapter also insists on reading during the reading time and reading for the pleasure of reading, i.e., disconnected from school tasks, since reading for the pleasure increases the reading level. Children and young people who practice reading as a leure activity see themselves as a community of readers who interact socially around books and share their love for reading. On the other hand, research has systematically shown that people who read the most are better readers and that by increasing reading time they improve the reader's abilities and this, on their return, increases the motivation to read. And, lastly, there are many studies that establish a relationship between the name of free people at home and the best academic results. If they look at the results of the PISA tests, they see how the countries match with the best scores with those who have the most books at home, and the other way around. Obviously, this is not the only variable, but it is not one with a definitive influence on reading competence. Now let's look at what happens to our country's primary and secondary education centres. I know, Counselor, that this is not his negotiation, but it is clear that it affects, and in what way, the cultural level that the people then have, and this is their land. It turns out that the schools acquired a very good ability to significantly increase the time devoted to reading during the school day. On the other hand, they lost a very good habit that they had for many years: to have each student buy three literary books per year. This modification was produced from the hand of the promotion made by the Teaching Department for which it makes the reuse of text books. I don't want to go into the question of the textbook, because it's not the object of this inquiry, nor do you, counselor, have skills. I want to talk to you about the fact that from the hand of these books the families also passed the literary book, with the apathetic connivance of the centers and sometimes, even with a galloping enthusiasm. What does this misunderstand society consist of? I will give you the most frequent example: the centre takes advantage of the money it should spend on the school library to buy twenty-five books of the same title for the classroom, and does the same for each level – first, second, third, fourth. These books are from the center, that is, a purely school material, and the student's eyes are untied from the light and pleasure. Can you imagine how this question has influenced the fact that the book has been devalued to students' eyes? If, in addition, you take into account that after reading each book they get an exam..., I, if I'm doing an exam after reading each book, I'd hate reading, I assure you. Besides, does it have an idea of the state in which volumes are found when they are only—only—five years in the hands of creatures? Fastic fan, I assure you. On the other hand, the teacher is obliged to read the same title every year, whether he likes it or not. In the 1980s, at the expense of pedagogical renewal movements, the faculty did a great job at the time of getting children and young people to build the personal library. At that time, the writers were working at the centers. If they asked the student how many books they had at home, an important part of it was that there had begun to be there from the moment they had started the primary school and the teachers had not had them bought. At that time, the school and the institute complete the egalitarian function expected. Now the writers and writers continue to send messages to the centers, less than before, because the editors no longer pay them, because they don't count them. The creators depend, therefore, on what the Catalan Letters Institution pays for, in order to be able to make speakers. But if they ask who has books at home, the answer is very heartbreaking. You don't surprise them that the kids say they practically don't have it, and you don't surprise them that creators and creators aren't writing because, like no one buys books, they can't live off their work anymore. When I was a little girl, in the fifties, there was no Catalan children's and youth literature. If there wasn't, there wasn't a castellana either. I was in Guillem Brown, who at the time was William, and I was eating balls of rudeness, and I was playing at the back garden, where there was the old shed, but I had no idea what kind of taste I had of rudeness, nor what look I could have of the old shed. Literature represents a mental universe common to all speakers of a language. If Catalan children's and youth literature disappears to be colonized for other mental universes. I'll go over the questions, and then I'll say more than I wanted to say. My question is, counselor: what do you plan to do to introduce the book and the value of reading newly among families? What do you plan to do for the country's creators and creators? What do you think you're doing because you can have a decent life and you can keep creating? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.180.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.181.0	Very late, very honorable president. The honourable Member, ladies and gentlemen... well, you started with an unbeatable literary reference, didn't you? I will try to match it to another one, as proposed by the fifty-year-old of the Sitges Fantastic Film Festival, which we will commemorate inguany. When the Stoker writes or tells Dracula: "I have dug up oceans of time to find you, haven't I? We carry a whole legislature talking and discussing, and indeed, in your questions, with what you ended your intervention on what we can finally do to promote the reading habit and, I understand, the world and the world of the book, so I must say that the government's answer is the 2020 Reading Plan; a plan that, in effect, has the firm, has the seal of many citizens and citizens, also its own, huh? Indeed, we have been working on initiatives, measures, some of which have already been implemented in the past year, and I am absolutely convinced that they will have a long time to go. It seems to me that, indeed, this parliamentary initiative that you have today, finally, therefore, concrete and that will translate into a motion that will surely be enriched by the group mix, is inscribed, I honestly believe, in the objectives, in the proposals, in the battery of the measures that have been included in this Pla of the 2020 reading. A reading board that has very explicit, very concrete objectives, which, without doubt, have to be seen with the prestige of reading, with increasing reading indexes; a reading indexes that at these times in Catalonia are comparable to our continental environment, to our European environment, but that does not only have objectives and propositions, but also has a real strategy from the point of view of one-twenty strategic lines, of one-five years' length of action and, novelty, a compromise that is very explicit: more than 105_million euros in length– i.e., within four years that comes before 2020, rather than before the end of the term. Therefore, clear objectives of prestigating reading, favoring the index of reading, prestigating reading activity in general and the book in concrete, also compromised from the presuppositional point of view. We have taken advantage of this 2016, the year that lies behind, with jobs and initiatives as you have promoted today, and with the continuous dialogue with Members and Members and with institutions that have an interest in it, but also with the task of carrying out the reading process, as you know, the book map, which allowed us to update the whole situation of the world of books and books in our country, and ultimately, also, favoring, seeking a job that must be inter-departmental – you have referred to the Department of Education – ; it is obvious that favoring the reading process in a society has to see, above all, as well as our children, our young people, our other administrations, obviously, to our young people, but also to our young people. Therefore, this is an inter-departmental plan for the occasion, but also inter-administrative – inter-administrative –, which will assume from the first moment the commitment to work with the local world and especially with the members, which they have done, for example, in the field and in the library sector. Let's note that this is a plan that pretends to be the initiator of a job, ultimately, motivating many other initiatives, many other actions that in an open form can be incorporated. So, we don't have to see in this document a locked document, huh? The authors, creators, librarians, editors, and the library world, who have already come up with some conclusions, and who, therefore, hold a work programme, but only an invitation to conjure us up and involve us all from all the instrumental perspectives, but also from the prestige of the reader, to create more and more readers, to increase the presence of these types of policies from the territory, not only to the great cities or to the media, and also, above all, to favor – you have referred to it a lot – the authors, the creators, librarians, editors and the universe of libraries. The same as if he tried to hold this sensitivity, and I fixed 'that the plate has already materialized in the form of a book. And, to put it this way, we have incorporated this reflection of more methodological types, of diagnosis, of historical precedents, of battery of measurements, of objectives, of concretions of assumptions, but we have also invited a dozen people, of citizens, among whom you find yourself, honourable Member, because they tell us why to read and, ultimately, because they invite the conjunction of citizenship to find out how, as one of the authors of this text that as a young woman in the fifties, sixty, said to read was the only possible form of freedom that he had in that context. Thus, in the end, to link the habit of reading to the achievement of full freedom, individual freedom, personal freedom, moral freedom. From this perspective, therefore, I believe that this document, this book will be interesting because we find authors, we find creators, we find libreters, we find editors, we find academics, we find politicians, we also find photographers who have been interested in capturing moments, moments, in the wider XX century linked to the hebit of reading, from Ricardo Terré, the Colita, Oriol Maspons, Gabriel Casas, Català-Roca, El Forcano, Xavier Miserachs, also stretching from what is a photographic heritage that we have from the Macba to the National Historical Archive, etc. Well, in this sense, therefore, I would like to emphasize that I believe that the work that has been done so far is a job that can be perfectly assumed, I hope, for the conjunction of the parliamentary arch and that, therefore, the great master lines are designed and will only depend on the compromise, ultimately, presuppositionary, that each presuppositionary exercise has and, therefore, the governments and this Parliament consider it opportune that it may have greater or lesser ambition. I think, moreover, that we are in a moment, I insist, reasonably positive from the point of view not only of the reading habit, but also of what we could say to the universe of the book. For example, it should be noted that we come not only from Frankfurt with an important Catalan presence, but above all from a branch such as the Fira del Libre Infantil y Juvenil de Bolonya, where Catalonia has been invited with more than fifty editorials, with authors, with creators, and where, in this sense, creation linked to the world of the book has remained very good and many contracts have been closed, etc. The government, as a result, we thought that, indeed, and they were also aware of their concern, the time had come to take a step further, and when I enter with detention in the analysis of the plan they would have more than all the battery of actions that some of them have, if necessary, in the second round I will refer to it – expressly directed towards favoring between our children and children, between our infants the own personal library, and therefore the praise of the book, eh? , as an object in itself, therefore, beyond these actions we have also dedicated ourselves to basing various actions of instrumental type. One of them has already been published, the creation of the Directorate-General of the Book, of the long-claimed Directorate-General of the Book, a work that we have already begun from the point of view of administration, which already counts on the green light on behalf of the Department of Governance to expand, in short, the organization chart of the Department of Culture, and which we anticipate, therefore, will be able to culminate in a few months. Here the policy is nothing more than the cost of the administrative processing of the generation of this general direction and the organization of the various services linked to it. I also want to highlight, in this sense, the creation of the commission, a commission to precisely promote the impulse of the reading plate, huh? a commission that will be a natural person of recognition that will have as its main mission the public incarnation of the impulse of the reading plate. And also a national reading board where we would combine all the actors from the institutional point of view involved in the field and also from the academic point of view. It seemed to us that the combination of academic world and other institutional actors, therefore, was the guarantee of continuous evaluation, huh? , execution, implementation of the plan. As far as concrete measures are concerned, more than I am now able to mention again, I insist, this plan is being taken as an open document and, therefore, dynamically, it will be possible to incorporate those initiatives that we can all think about, regenerate and respond to these objectives, which I believe are shared by all of you. Thank you very much, and I'm at your disposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.182.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Vila. Then there's the word "Mrs. Lienas."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.183.0	Thank you, President. You said it yourself, and I am glad that we are moving in the same direction: there is not enough to encourage reading, which is very important, also to encourage the book and the personal library. From here his "Six years ago and start the personal library, which is magnificent, because if not, I insist, creators and creators cannot live from their work and can suffer not only to stay without child and youth literature, but to stay without prose, without poetry, without theatre, without thirst, without nothing else. Look, to give us an example, because I would like to point out that the fact that we are left alone, that we can be left unfree because of the fact that creators and creators cannot live from their work, would harm not only readers, but also those who do not read. To give you an example, Virginia Woolf and Simone de Beauvoir. Both then and now there are very minority quotas of readers of these authors, but there is no doubt that they are a reference of well-established cultural, political and social currents, for example, feminism. Promoting the book is, therefore, not only to provide more satisfaction to readers; satisfactions that, as I said, the recently disappeared Rafael Chirbes, "can be the result of a violent effort on the part of the author and his reader, but also to produce new ideas and generate imaginary collections that surpass ancient ideas. What I see very necessary is that Culture is going to negotiate with Teaching. If that were possible, I'll explain some questions about the center, the faculty and the families. The socialization tactics misunderstood, one I have already explained, the twenty-five titles, but there is more: photocopy books and that the creatures read from photocopies; log books to a Dutch company than buy them from second hand, a company that is in Holland and that log books from second hand to our students; buy a single book and read it in high-class, not first-class, if primary; ask the writer if they can pass the book in PDF, because our students are no longer used to buying books... It is possible that if he speaks to Teaching they will tell him that they can't change it, because they respect the autonomy of centers. I do not doubt that the department believes that, in fact, the only one they achieve is to respect the autonomy of AMPAs, because there is a very important number of families willing to buy anything less free. Anyway, we know that there are families that can't buy books, which is why we also ask for scholarships for this. There is also an important number of teachers who don't like to read, who say it without any modesty, you don't have to look like strange people not to read. And for what he does to creatures, when adults don't buy books because, not to know, they won't even know where to buy. I'll explain a sharp situation for me last week's dive. I've done two errands to children in five-and-a-six primary schools gathered at the Library of New Barris. In the first row there were eighty creatures; in the second, one hundred and fifty. You know, counselor, how many had bought a book? One, two-hundred-thirty. You know, counselor, how many people did you have at home? Few students. Do you know how many mobiles they had – five and six of primary school? 80_per_cent, says for the faculty. Do you know how much a book of children's and youth's literature is worth? De_euro menus. Do you know how much a mobile's monthly connection is? EUR 20. It's obvious we have a value problem. It is not uncommon, at the expense of the surplus food law, to complain of the comparators that the food has lost its value: no one links a supermarket tomato with the hort where it was produced, for this reason it is so bad to eat. The books have passed the same, they have lost their value. First, families no longer give them any value, because our society is only worth money, not cultural level. And, second, no one remembers that books are not in libraries by magic art, but are the result of the work of many people, starting, of course, for the writer. Of course, you know what the people you write see: they don't have a penny, they charge a two-per-cent of the price for each book they come. It only charges if the book is coming, not if the book is just reading. That's why I'm telling you that reading training plans don't pay for governments, families, or libraries, we pay for creators and creators. If we want a socially sustainable book sector, from which not only libraries or reading prescribers can live, we can guarantee that creators and creators have tickets to live, because the responsibility to promote reading cannot only come from them. They don't want subsidies to live, they want to live from their work. And lastly, I want to tell you, counselor, that I'm very pleased to know that this is an open plan, so that's why the motion we're going to put forward, and I hope that with everyone's papers we can approve, you can incorporate it into this plan. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.184.0	Thank you, Mrs. Lienas. The word has the councilman Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.185.0	Thank you very much, President. So, honourable Member, in order to finish a little, in fact, the shared analysis that we are doing on which moment we find ourselves, obviously you speak of some example that robs us all and that you also have to see with some changes certainly and all housing, demográfices of our people, and that they make everything that sounds like physical objects, so each time we have more difficulty in appreciating them. In this sense, the plan provides many support measures for the book as object – the book as object. And, therefore, the book, even as a physical object that, therefore, beyond its electronic versions, therefore, must be appreciated, appreciated. There are also many actions – we have mentioned – designed to enhance reading activity and generate your own personal library. In relation to Teaching, the Honourable Irene Rigau reminded us a few minutes ago, a few minutes ago, of the precise success of the reading plan due to completion at the level of the Department of Education, where one thousand and three hundred centers involved in making the reading possible, compatible, effectively, with these circumstances around which we all have to fight. Remember that date I already shared in your parliament, referring to the campaign«You are six years old, sort a book, which the year also surprised us all, when 35 % of the families who went to collect the book for the child or for the girl who completed six years during the year, so they recognized that they had never climbed before a bookstore, right? So it's obvious that we have certain circumstances around us, that some of us may have been led astray by an idea of modernity linked to a certain technological expression, so some good practices have been carried forward that I think we need to be regenerating. This plan is conjured, huh? And, therefore, in line with your expectation of the motion to emerge from this reflection today, so, without any doubt, a major impulse still linked to the impulse of the reading habit. Think, in this sense, that with the Department of Education we have already granted pre-vacation meetings, because they are an angular piece. And the Teaching Department is an angular piece to promote the reading habit there where it is, which is at its earliest age, just when it takes over this habit. There are also specific measures not only in the six years, but in the seventeen years, that we have detected that it is when effectively many of our young people stop reading and do so, therefore, because they have other concerns, or for the reasons that follow. I'm also left with something that I think has been of particular concern to him, which is the situation of creation, of the authors. You will be able to trace on the board some initiatives linked to favoring creation, in general; to favoring especially, specifically – and it is new to encany – translation; to raising the promotion of the classics. And so, in this sense, I think we'll find ourselves in the world of authorship again, so we're feeling, huh? , because in the end we can, therefore, go little by little regenerating the paper of the authors in general. At all events, I would not want to end up without underlining that the vocation of this plan is to be effectively integral. That means we have to take the whole chain into account, huh? , of value linked to the world of the book: from the authors, creators effectively – you have referred especially to it – but obviously also the world of editors, very powerful to our country; the world of libreters, which at these times are true prescriptors. Here surely we have still remained short on this plate, we will have to do more for the librarians, even though we have a map of booksellers in Catalonia reasonably consolidated: 806 booksellers on 948 municipalities, unequal from the point of view of their ability to do things, but all with a vocation to go much further than the simple exercise of buying and selling books. And obviously, therefore, I also believe that from the point of view of distribution, from the point of view of the paper and the support to the fire, here we will find. We are not oblivious to promoting the readability of the smallest municipalities. Here the local libraries have played an important role and we will have to look at what is now a 94_per_cent of the population, from the point of view of the libraries, so it's culminated in this plan in the cent_per_cent, huh? This is what will cost us the most for mathematical reasons, always the last percentages are the hardest to achieve, but I think that if we can guarantee a sustained investment also in the extension of our library network and with other strategies linked to the library or with other initiatives that can be planned..., I think it is plausible that we have achieved this goal by the time of 2020. In any case, I will pay attention, therefore, to what they approve of in the motion and I am absolutely convinced that the consensus will be the one that will preside over it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.186.0	Thank you, Counsellor Vila. [[Asking the Government about the strategy to boost the green economy]] [[300-00172/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the strategy to boost the green economy presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.187.0	Good afternoon, Counselor. MPs, MPs, we are starting a path of economic recovery in our country, but it is also accompanied by more emissions of greenhouse gases in the conjunct of the Spanish State, also in Catalonia. In contrast to the commitments reached at COP 2015, the emissions subject to the European Emissions Trading Directive are gradually decreasing. We have already expressed it in some parliamentary intervention that we can walk towards a system of production and consumption that is more efficient in the use of resources, low in carbon, that internalizes social and environmental externalities. That is, a substantial change in the current production and consumption system. The strategies around the green economy must be based on the recognition that the current economic model cannot cope with the challenges that we have set for societies and that, if it goes on like this, we can even question the future viability of the planet. These times are not us, but they have been evident in the later years, which have led, moreover, to an increase in the awareness of the impossibility of unlimited growth. I think the diagnosis is shared. The economic growth based on the indiscriminate consumption of resources has produced impacts that affect the functioning of natural systems, we have consumed in a few decades most of the fossil energy resources that are available at these times, and which, moreover, we have produced an impact of gas emissions with winter effects that, if we do not continue to do so, can put at risk the living conditions as we know them today. And Catalonia is no exception. Miri, the economic crisis of the year 2008, which has global characteristics, even though it started as a financial crisis, from my point of view put black on white something that was deeper, right? : that we were before a crisis of the system, a more systemic crisis. And despite the resistance that is still visible in some sectors, the way forward to a more competitive economy is through an efficient and sustainable use of resources. In Europe, the finding of reviewing, of making profound changes in order to remain competitive is shared by most economic and social sectors, also by the institutions. I believe that Catalonia also has this, we are not rich in natural resources or energy. In Europe, Spain, Catalonia, we import more than half of the materials we consume, dependence is growing and not just energy. We are convinced, from my parliamentary group, that changing the model into a fossil fuel economy or a low carbon economy is not a cost, but an opportunity to move towards a new industry 4.0, the creation of a new occupation. We are convinced that the challenge the country has to face at this time goes further. When we define 'green economy', it goes beyond the environmental sector and requires the incorporation of sustainability across all economic sectors. Incorporating criteria of estalvi, of efficiency in the use of resources in the conjunction of the productive economy will, from our point of view, make a more competitive product with less environmental impacts. We bet clearly on the green economy and we could also put in other ways, but I think if we have this definition, we understand each other perfectly. And this policy, I repeat, goes beyond the impulse of environmental policy. And we stand out in the country's economic, industrial and energy policy. The green economy can make Catalan businesses more competitive, both for the internal market and for internationalisation. But for this to respond quickly to world trends, very often of great technological content. Being pioneers brings benefits. We therefore urge the Government of the Government of Catalonia to give clear, explicit and presuppositional support to innovation, so that they can be part of the green economy. Concepts such as "ecodisseny" should be... we could also make an inquiry about ecodisseny, huh? , I will only make it a very quick definition, but concepts such as 'ecodisseny' must be present in a strong way in the business policy to be promoted. The green economy, by definition, has to be sustainable through transition to a low carbon economy, but also smart, with more investment in education, research and innovation. And, therefore, to whom we urge, counselor – not to you in particular but as a representative of the Government – is to recover the level of expenditure we had, not just percentages, but quantitatively. It is essential, it is a pot of the green economy, to make more investments in intelligence means in education, in research, in innovation. And, in addition, there must be an explicit compromise in this new model, from the point of view of the creation of occupation and the reduction of inequalities. Do we have the skills to start this path? The answer, from our parliamentary group, is yes. The Statute links us to a wide range of expertise in sustainability issues, environmental issues, planning and implementation of energy policies. I'm sure not everyone we want, but, uh, god-in-law. We have skills in the areas of education and the implementation of business measures. Before you recite to me the list of initiatives that the Government is pushing or wants to push, let's say that, notwithstanding this, we do not see a global strategy that integrates objectives, assigns responsibilities and establishes what are the resources to accomplish them. Several departments use similar concepts, but to which you enter, eh? – and we can go into more detail later, if you want to – they don't always want to say the same, or as we least interpret that they don't say the same, and this can create or generate confusion about which model the government wants to push. And having a clear strategy, from our point of view, in the green economy, is essential to having a shared _framework, not just with parliamentary groups, which would be the least, which is important, but with society, with businesses, with citizenship in general. We, the brand we propose and defend, believe that it must guarantee the effective participation of the various economic actors of the country, obviously businesses and also the unions, eh? That they'll tend to say things in this camp, the universities, the research centers, and also the local authorities. The green economy is the business and industry of the country. Yeah, that's it. Now, the role of the government and parliament as legislative bodies is instrumental in establishing laws that bring economic activity to this transition. I don't want to talk... because sometimes this word, if it doesn't explain well, can have connotations not understood, huh? I therefore resisted talking about the public-private partnership. But the idea I want to convey to you is that, I am aware that sovereignty lies at the time of establishing the norm, which is in Parliament, at the proposal of the Government or at the initiative of the parliamentary groups, such as to advance in the line of the dialogue, of the consensus, of the conviction of the joint society. Why are we playing a superior good, huh? Certain measures, if they are not shared, not only in the diagnostic phase, but in the implant phase, can end up creating rejects. And that's what I think at this point is what the least we should be interested in. If the world, also Catalonia, does not begin to reduce its CO2 emissions from year 2020 and not up to 2050 with a reduction of 50_percent of its emissions, the already visible effects of climate change will be accentuated, with unimaginable destruction for mankind. That's why we..., the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we have insisted on a law that is still in process, that is the climate change law, that incorporates the need to work with carbon assumptions, assigning emission reductions to each sector, and that the government would... – back, huh? , not yours, the one that can be there at every moment –, you will have to incorporate [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – I conclude, president – the proposal of a committee of independent experts; economy, therefore, industry, services, energy. The energy transition is the key back, I'll talk to him on the second return.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.188.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.189.0	Thank you very much, President. Congressman, congressmen and congressmen... you're right, Mr Terrades, you're right that we agree in the diagnosis, and we will certainly agree with a good part of the actions and actions to be taken. Because, it is true, we are in a context of pressure, and growing pressure, on natural resources, as a result of many things: demographic changes, patterns..., different patterns of consumption, and an increase in urbanization. And so, sustainability appears as one of the great challenges we have today and in the future. And, you said, many times it's a lot about sustainability, many times it's a lot about green economy. We usually talk about sustainability as an adjective, accompanying many other things. And we should stop talking about sustainability as an adjective to get it to a substance. Sustainability, it itself, and sustainability policies must be a strategy; a governance strategy, not only a governance strategy, but also a country strategy, because it is the country that we play with and it is the country that owes these actions. Therefore, a strategy of all sectors and affecting all sectors. So when it comes to the green economy, we're not just talking about that sector more directly related to the environment, no; we're talking about the whole economy of all sectors. And you said, "And perhaps we will all have to work together here. And we will have to work with what you said about the public-private partnership. So, look, if we take as an example those actions that make the countries that we want to take as a model because they are more developed and have done more actions than we have done, such as, for example, the case of Holland or the case of Denmark or other Nordic countries, they have done so with public-private partnerships, yes. There is the collaboration, necessary and absolutely insufficient, of the public sector, and there is also collaboration, which is necessary and also if it is for itself insufficient, of the private sector. Therefore, this collaboration is what it can do to end up summating and summating in a correct way. You said: "I do not see that there is a joint global strategy of the whole government in the matter of the green economy. We could talk about sustainability, green economy, circular economy, what you think. But, look, I'll tell him yes – I'll tell him yes – and I'll give him the examples on which the government is basing this policy that we think is cross-cutting. The first..., and you refer to it, with emissions policy, and also with an essential element, which are energy policies, energy policy and the energy sector. So, well, here the government seems to me to have donated exhibitions..., donated the exhibitions with the National Pact for Energy Transition, which must be the basis of the agreement not only of government, but of all society, and in "the whole society I also incorporate this Parliament as a legitimate representative of all society, so as to define this new Catalan energy model, a model that is based on energy efficiency, on the ability to generate energy through renewable energies, and on what energy access becomes a fundamental right, basically for the quality of life of all citizens and also for the competitiveness of businesses, as you said. That is to say, we do not have to be seen and we do not have to..., we do not have to internalize, and this is the pedagogy that has to be done from all spheres, also from the point of view of politics, we have not..., to this pedagogy we do not have to consider all the investments that are made in the matter of reducing emissions, reducing the carbon footprint that can make the actions of transforming this linear economy into a circular economy..., this is not to be seen as a cost, but as a reversal, as a long-term reversal that has to end up giving more possibilities of future competitiveness to energy; therefore, the National Pact for Energy Transition. This national pact I myself introduced to the commission the 31st generation of this same year. And now it's at Parliament's hands, so there's this debate and this will of work to finally achieve a document that has the highest political consensus, which is what we're looking for. The pact document is here in Parliament, and we want this pact to be discussed here in Parliament. And we expect this debate to take place and we want it to take place as quickly as possible. A_second is with the National Pact for Industry, which is moving and negotiating. And here you said: "In the definition of these objectives it must be the entrepreneurs, but it must also be the unions. Okay. In the debates and discussions that are taking place around the National Pact for Industry there is one of the axes..., one of the axes is the axes for sustainability and the circular economy. And here are the economic and social agents, the technology centres, the universities, and the municipal authorities and professional colleges that you have mentioned. The third..., the third pot? The third pot would be the push strategy for the green economy and the circular economy, which was approved in May 2015, which was ratified in the government plan for this legislature, and therefore the government is implementing it. That is to say, we are doing this in the market, because this strategy has been designed closely linked to the European 2020 strategy, which has adopted various initiatives on green employment, after a green action plan for peppers and major opportunities for science in the use of the resources of the construction sector. And the translation of the European 2020 strategy into Catalonia was made to the Ecat 2020 strategy, which has a strictly priority area of action linked to the transition to a more efficient economy in the use of its resources, and, more concretely, in the field of RIS3CAT, in which it defines who are the priority sectors; there are two, there are two areas, the energy and resources area and the area of sustainable mobility, which are fully part of what is called the green economy. But there are only two specific areas in which RIS3CAT puts emphasis and therefore resources and therefore actions, basically in aspects and in areas such as innovation; innovation that, in this case, the collaborative and cooperative woman, because to access the RIS3CAT project, it is not necessary that..., not only must it be a company or a technological centre or a university, they must present projects that are joint, projects in which everyone participates in an integrated and joint way and that the project is working for all the areas – businesses, universities, research centres, technological centres or other entities – that are the ones that must innovate in these camps. Therefore, we have two spheres, two camps – mobility and energy and resources – that touch directly on the subject; but then the concept of sustainability is and is also presented in a cross-cutting way, in a vertical way, cutting out all the other sectors that are considered priorities for this strategy. Therefore, all sectors participate here and all sectors participate. And, also, on the legislative ground, which would be the fourth..., one of the four friends, there is the Climate Change Bill Project, which you made reference to and which is going on here in Parliament. And then there would obviously also be other concrete initiatives already, which are more concrete, more punctual, than the government is pushing, already through the territory..., basically through the Department of Territory and Sustainability, through the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge, but also through the Department of Agriculture, in the matter of green economy and in the matter of circular economy, which are the areas in which we are doing, huh? So, in these areas, they're where we're working and we're driving action. I left'm who put it, now yes, some examples. In the field of the development of electric mobility, what is being done is to generate an environment that is favourable to consolidation and also to the growth of electric mobility over the next few years. And that's what we're doing with the Electric Vehicle Refuelling Infrastructure Board, the PIRVEC, which has been called up and that we're about to solve the help to put refueling points in the different joints. And another plan that is also important is the Energy Efficiency Action Plan in industry, which wants to be an open plan, a participatory plan and a plan with the same sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.190.0	Thank you, Counsellor Baiget. The word has Mr. Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.191.0	With the presupposed commitments, counselors, poquets, huh? Not enough, poquets. I've taken a rest from the guinea pig assumption and I think the lack, beyond the words, of making a more clear compromise respecting the fears that you here have announced to us, huh? He said to us..., I said to him: "We need to work for a strong industry, don't we? , ability to cope with digital transformation and to continue generating stable and quality occupation. I read that the pes of the activities linked to the industry supposes in the gross domestic product of Catalonia, approximately, 50_per_cent, eh? Beyond this percentage – tenth up, tenth down – industry generates quality employment, generally well-paid, and is above all a factor of resilience and territorial balance. And who has the responsibility to design policies to face this digital transformation and orientation of environmental sustainability that industry has to face – also services, tourism, trade – must be the government. Transformation that cannot put at risk the increase in productivity, but neither the creation of employment nor the wage evolution. You were talking to me about the National Pact for Industry; let's hope that the energy transition, which I'll talk about later, is a little faster than the National Pact for Industry, because it's slow running, huh? I think there is already a certain consensus among social actors; I don't know if the difficulty is now on the government's side, but it is the government's responsibility to set a clear strategy on these issues. And I told him that energy policy is one of the friends of this model change for us. We are defending a 100_per_cent energy model of renewable origin, distributed, with the leading city, a new system of clean and renewable energies that we believe will reduce the energy imports of fossil fuels and the emissions, therefore, of CO2 and the overall costs of energy. And we encourage him that, beyond the words in which we are moving at these times, one of the Government's priorities is precisely an energy strategy aimed at energy transition. It is true that you came here to Parliament a few weeks ago to lay the foundations for the National Energy Transition Pact, and you said to us: "No, this is in the hands of Parliament. Someone has to lead this debate process. If it is not the Government, it is not a concern, that we will already encourage from my parliamentary group that this debate is produced, because we believe that it is essential to have these bases for a national pact that allows the next legislature to deal with an energy transition law. Because with the appearance he made, from our point of view, there's not enough. A pact means dialog to seek the highest possible consensus. We encourage you, the government and all parliamentary groups to open talks. We encourage them to seek solutions to issues that I believe are complex and controversial, I will not deny, but which we shall find majority agreements and which are not subject to the interest of the moment or the need to seek majority parliaments. And I put three in this national pact that we will have to address: what do we do with nuclear energy – we already say that we are defending that the last reactor should be closed in 2027, but let us talk about it –; how do we deploy renewable energies to Catalonia – because I do not have the impression that there is the same vision in the joint parliamentary forces – and how we face mobility in the country. There are three issues that are clearly a national pact for energy transition. Either the dialog on your work, or it indicates us... or all the folds, then, we look at how we open this debate; but it is necessary to close this legislature with this topic. And one last question: starting the path to the green economy also means changing the tax bases of the system. We will already propose that at the end of one year the government prepares and presents a law in this global sense, not taking advantage of each of the laws that pass through here to introduce small modifications. We need an open, serious debate around this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.192.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. There's a word from Councilman Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.193.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Terrades, look, we follow the strategy that Parliament has designed for us and that Parliament has indicated to us through various resolutions and motions approved in this. In other words, we had to work and actually worked on a national pact for energy transition, long-term work, and worked with consensus with an important number of civil society companies and entities, and we got that consensus. From the acquiescence of this consensus, we presented it in Parliament, because of the approval and consent to the widest possible extent of all the political forces of the parliamentary groups here in Parliament..., it is what should be determined after further actions, subsequent basic, basic actions for the country, as can therefore be the law of the energy transition of Catalonia; a law of the energy transition that must be made on the basis of a basis of pacts. And in this law of energy transition is where we have to put all these aspects that you have told us, as they are: that in terms of nuclear energy, that in terms of..., as well as renewable energies. That's one aspect that makes us suffer and we worry, and we want to enhance the presence of renewable energies in the country, huh? Now there's been a sub of renewable energy, more than three thousand megawatts, and to see how many of these are going to Catalonia, how many of these are going to other territories..., to other territories of the State. It seems lied that sometimes..., most of these megawatts will go away, because here there is no..., or the same ones that we defend or defend a strategy, then, when that same strategy is located in the territories, then they defend the opposite position. So, here the coherence should be maintained. But anyway, I'm the one who says we're moving forward and we're working. I have put the example of the PIRVEC, I have put the example of the Energy Efficiency Platform to the industry, but also as we are advancing in an aspect that is important, such as that of the Energy Renewal Strategy of buildings to improve its efficiency, which we are now carrying out, for example, a call; or development– which we do here in a coordinated way with the Department of Agriculture – from the energy valorization of forest biomass, which is taking action to increase the presence and production of biomass in our country; or the self-consumption, which has taken place through the establishment of the Impulse Table to the Photovoltaic Self-Consusion of Catalonia, but which is not limited to the actual use of images in such a way as to enable them to be used. You were talking and talking... I see you're talking about resources and what's happening with the National Pact for Industry, and especially with the sustainability group. So, miri, now that we are in the phase of presuppositional realization, I will say to you: in this context there are performances in the presupposition of 2017 worth 27_million_i_mig euros; the year 2016 there were performances in the value of 14_million_i_mig, which we hope, these are already subsidies or are already in the way of mobilization of resources, which can be mobilised a presupposition in the years 2017-2020 of the around 150_million euros in these areas of the green economy, the circular economy and all sustainability. This is the effort that the Government is making, this is the effort that is making the whole joint Government, because here, in the National Pact for Industry, it is working, it is working in a coordinated way and without difficulties, because there is a great collaboration between the whole Government. And, therefore, let's hope that soon there may be..., and that we can bring the results of this dialogue here to Parliament, so that you are fully aware of all of you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.194.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Baiget. [[Asking the Government about the tourism model]] [[300-00178/11]] The eighth point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the model of tourism, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it has the word Lord Sergi Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.195.0	All right, thank you, President. We have put forward this proposal..., well, this inquiry, for the time being, which will result in a motion in 15 days' time, addressed to the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge, to talk about the tourism model, if we can say that there is, in fact, and with an objective, therefore, to denounce the policy that, from our point of view, has directed the Government these last years, with a drift, from our point of view, there is insistent, neoliberal. To expose our proposals, too, on the basis that we understand that it is not the problem of a sector, the tourism sector, that it is not a concrete problem of certain territories, the municipalities or tourist areas, but that we understand that it is a country problem, caused by the continued extractive and speculative activity, territorial, social and economic – after which we will refer – before the alternative we understand that it must be the touristic decline; if not, from the outset, the containment, it should be. And at a time, therefore, to develop socio-economic alternatives to break this monoculture, especially in certain tourist areas. I'll show you a series of data related to the touristic context, so you can get rid of them and see if you can get in, so, at the end of our landings. According to the annual balance sheet of 2016, of the Observers of the Work and Product Model of the Generality, currently in Catalonia there are 61,500 and a little more tourist accommodation, which add up to a total of 918,862 places – in addition to hotels, campings, etc. – and all this without taking into account the habitats of illegal tourist uses, which are not accounted for by official statistics – we will also mention. And what we can say, that, in relation to the number of tourist trips, 2016, we had a total of about 36.2 million tourist trips, of which 18.1 were foreigners, 12.9 were Catalans– a 42_per_cent; that is, we also move and fem tourism in our territory, in this case in the Principality – and 5.2 were from the Spanish State– a 13_per_cent. Catalonia, together with the Islands and the Valencia Country, we set up a territory, say, of first destination, especially in the area of our geographical environment, right? Catalonia, in the State, is the first destination in the first visit of foreigners. The tourism sector employs around 400,000 people, with oscillations, because... – we will also mention it, right? –, the high seasonality of these places of work, and represents approximately 13_percent of the occupied. Tourist spending last year was 20,900– almost millions of euros, and we can say that tourism accounts for 15_percent of GDP in Catalonia. From this point of view, macroeconomics, and if we were to do a simple analysis of these data, we could say that tourism is still good news, that it works wonderfully, that it's all right and that it's good for the country, right? If we just take these data into account, then a priori we could say it's good. But reality isn't always as beautiful as it is if we want to paint. To begin with, a given. To generate the same level of tourist entrances, especially at the foreign level, we need to move every year more tourists. The year passed, for example, the increase of foreign tourists was 4.2, while the increase in tourist spending of these foreigners was only..., or if not lower, with 3.9_per_cent, and this takes into account current values; if we take into account constant values, the real economic impact would still be lower. All this, moreover, we understand it framed in some public policies that drive a tourism model based – in fact, like all capitalism – on the privatization of the winnings in a few hands, often, and the socialization of the losers and the negative impacts by the joint of the city. In the tourism sector, we all know, there is a high level of job insecurity, with lower wages and a higher temporality than in the rest of the economic sectors. Tourism generates high environmental and territorial impacts, with high water and energy consumption, enclosing the pool of resources from the water of the Ter or the Ebre, for example. With a high, also, concentration and territorial pressure, especially on the coast. Catalonia, therefore, is a destination basically, historically, and today too, of sun and platja tourism. One given: except for the reduction of the Ebre Delta, we have urbanized the 70_per_cent of the beaches of the Principality. This is a date that I think we should think about, because to a good extent this has been provoked, if not encouraged, by tourism activity. This is not always the case, but the tourism sector has an important part to play in the degradation of these coastal areas. Tourism too – and above all recently, therefore, has begun to be news of this issue – causes the prices of the habitats, which make it difficult to access, when not expelled, the veins that inhabit certain barrels or territories with a strong tourist pressure. Some data to hear the magnitude of the tragedy. At the end of 2016, Catalonia had 55,550 tourist flats, with 305,718 seats. In 2006, the tourist apartments captured the hotel spaces, with an annual growth of these tourist use habitats of 18_per_cent. In a year sun, between 15 and 16, 8,308 tourist flats appeared – 8,308 tourist flats in a year – with nine seats of 45,706 new places. All this in a single year: it's an 18_per_cent increment, we said. All this only counts the legal ones, because if we count the illegal ones they would still add much more. To give an example: in Barcelona it is counted that more or less there are about seven thousand touristic floors, of which a 40_per_cent– according to a report commissioned for the Barcelona Assembly – represent 40_per_cent, the illegal touristic floors, of these seven thousand touristic floors. These seven-thousand touristic floors in Barcelona's municipality represent an 8_percent of the city's logger park. It is a fact that we can say: "Well, then, not above 10, it is not 15, but a characteristic of these touristic floors, for example to the city of Barcelona, is that they are concentrated in a 65_per_cent in two barrels, of the seventy-three that the city has, basically to Ciutat Vella and the Eixample. Both here and in Palma, say, the situation is already unsustainable. That's why, as the Palma companies say, the city, isn't it? That's where she lives, and that's where she visits her. [[Some applause.]] But it's a problem that we don't only have in the city of Barcelona, but in the Catalan countries. Some of the policies promoted by the government might say that they are of stone, in tourist matter. They want to sell a series of products like very spectacular, but in reality, they don't hold onto each other. They are, at times, a misrepresentation of public resources of many million euros. To put three examples, of this tourist policy of apparador: Circuit de Catalunya, rescued with 7,5_million euros in 2016, and 2,5_million euros that have already been paid, or have been rescued, has been advanced the year 2015. It is an installation that has been kept systematically with losses since the year 2009, when it was rescued by Avançsa, which is a public enterprise of the Generalitat, theoretically dedicated to industrial promotion, but also acts as a rescuer of things that do not work. A lost circuit, which now, more so, they want to make an urban director plan to continue with this speculative process of soil. And the serious question is: isn't it better to invest these millions of euros in a real industrialisation plan in Vallès to recycle..., encourage industrialisation, reindustrialisation, recycle industrial spaces that are obsolete, or that are underutilized or that are simply not used? The Territorial Councillor recalled in a committee that 70 % of the industrial polygons in Catalonia are empty. So, it's like, we're just industrial already. Ski trails. Six of the new Alpine ski slopes of the Principality have been rescued by the Generality, and especially since Convergence and Union, now PDECAT, entered the Government in 2010. Since then, we have not rescued four, between 2011 and 2012, basically. Five tracks are from Ferrocarrils de la Generalitat : Vall de Núria, La Molina, Espot, Port Ainé and Vallter 2000, and one is capitalized through Avançsa, this company that is theoretically dedicated to industrial promotion, which remained 7,3_million euros to rescue it, but which has once let it run to a private company. It's, like, public spending, investment, losses, and benefits for the company that runs it. It's a ski trail that... the one we give, isn't it? , have been rescued and that, in addition, accumulate some losses of exploitation of more than 60 million euros, which we have to add to the promotional expenses. The year 2015, for example, was spent 650.000 euros in promoting skiing. And, more than that, continue to be wrong, in the presupposition of 2017 there have been 6,5_million reversals to the ski slopes, and the question is: it would not be better than, in the accounts of rescuing the climate change with snow cannons, rescuing, right? Or do we invest all this money in the effective promotion of the people who live in the territory and in activities such as rowing, forest management or conservation of nature itself? One more example: Barcelona World. We think they've made a good laugh, an authentic snitch. They promised the creation of an international-level, game-based tourist megapol, which they said, even at the time, that would generate up to forty thousand jobs, all from an idea that was never even just a project, no one has ever seen a business plan, which we now see was all smoke. They have confided the people to justify a sale operation of a toxic land that the Box today doesn't know how to get 'em out of the world. I will continue on the second part of the question with the completion of some elements of the proposal which we will also make concrete, therefore, to the motion fifteen days from now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.196.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. [[Greetings.]] Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.197.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, yes, you said when you referred to the data: the tourism sector is an important sector for our economy, is that right? All the data that you have said is true. I'll tell you one. You say: "The economic impact of foreign tourists: there is more movement, but there is less expense. Well, what's left is less of the tourists who come here, less of a summer, because if we count on the daily expense of every foreign tourist who sees here, then the latest data tells us that the tourist spending per person has increased by 12.8_per_cent. And this is also going in the right direction: that there are fewer people, that there are fewer tourists and that these tourists spend more on the country. Because fortunately tourism is not a monoculture to our economy. The Catalan economy is a very different economy, it is an economy in which there is a balanced presence of the industrial sector. The industrial sector now accounts for more than 20 % of gross domestic product. In the industrial sector, there is no dominant sector, but there are some sectors which are practically homogeneously divided. And tourism is an important sector, but we're not a monoculture, are we? Tourism in our economy is important, but we are lucky to have a much larger and more diversified economy. But, it is true, the tourism and the figures that you have told us indicate that it is a pillar of economic activity and a source of occupation. And the data that you said they showed us too. It's obvious, I don't want to take refuge that..., despite the beneficial effects of tourism we can't overlook other aspects that aren't so much and that we have to correct, huh? But the question is not whether tourism is yes or tourism is not, or the question is not whether we need to make a decrease or we need to make a conflict, what we need to raise ourselves is how we manage the number of tourists visiting us and whether the way we do it will lead to an evil or a good government of this tourism. Countries are touristic or are not touristic because of their promotion, or not because of the promotion that the sector or institutions do, but because they are touristic because of the attractiveness that they can have, and Catalonia and Barcelona have this attractiveness. And, attention, attraction is not just for tourism. A country has the ability to attract talent, and can capture industry, and can capture events, and can capture activity, and can capture investments and also capture tourism. This is the consequence of being attracted to the world and being present in the world, that's it. Tourism is not a phenomenon that we can wing, it is a complex phenomenon, it is a phenomenon that interrelates between all other activities. Therefore, there are constant changes, it generates opportunities and, it is certain, it creates risks. And here's what it's about, and it's about managing this complexity, and it's not about subscribing to the conviction, which is what some fans of the only entry sector are. That's what we don't know, we don't agree. Because we cannot forget important and positive aspects that tourism brings to the economic level, which is not only the generation of wealth, but also the fixation of economic activity in the territories, in the territories, in some territories in which, if not, there would be no other types of activity, that there has been tourism activity is good. And that explains some of the decisions the government has made and the government has taken in certain actions that you have expressed in your intervention. What's up with Boí-Taüll today, huh? Boí-Taüll is the first company in Upper Ribagorça. If there has not been a continuation of High Ribagorça, many people who are living today and who can continue living in High Ribagorça may not be there. And, therefore, it did well – it did well – the Government of the Generality to intervene and to stay and to be active in Boí-Taüll. Why is it, with a difference, the first – the first – company of the region, eh? And this is also our responsibility. When we talked about Delphi this morning and we did everything we could to re-industrialize... when we can talk about Covestro in Tarragona, which we don't want to shut down, because it's important to keep working places, it's also for Upper Ribagorça and the business and industry of Upper Ribagorça is said to be Boí-Taüll, and we are and we are still working on it. So it's obvious that... And, besides, the activity... the tourism sector is a sector or are activities... When we talk about the tourism sector, we can't just talk about hotels or we can only talk about accommodation. We can also talk about how it affects trade, how it affects agribusiness, how it affects transport, how it affects... According to input-output table data, they have more effect on agribusiness and trade than on establishments and housing. Therefore, it is a set of activities that is not limited only to a sector, it is not limited only to an activity, but it affects a very broad set of activities. And it's about this, and it's about this joint where we have all the responsibility and we want to act. So, as the government, who are the guidelines that we defend in the field of tourism? So, if we defend a country, a project of an international country, a good project of a country open to the world, also the defense in matter also of tourism. We defend Catalonia as a destination. We want to take advantage of what we have: a diverse country, a varied country and a rich country. We are aware that there are certain rights in which there may be aspects to be regulated. Yes, they have to be regulated and they can't take refuge, there has to be a regulation and a concretion. But, at the country level, tourism and tourism-related activities are also activities. What do we have to empower? The product, the quality of the product, the quality offer and an offer of quality that is also oriented to a demand for quality: this is what we are doing. A direction of tourism also transversal, we need to put more intelligence, more transversality, because tourism is not just a sector, but a combination of activities. And you've given these data, which are absolutely true, but they're putting together all the data that we have in practice to know about the sector and we need many more. We need a lot of data on what the effects are, what they're doing, what the real impact is on the territories or territories. And this is what we, for example, are now trying to develop: a system of tourism intelligence with the collaboration of all the universities in the country – of all, eh? – more closely linked to the study and to the investigation and tourist research so as to achieve a real system of tourist intelligence, that can tell us and help us to make decisions not based solely on the data we have donated, that they are the ones we obtain by third parties and that, on the other hand, they are the obvious ones. We want to look for and we want to thank what is behind all this reality with other data that can be offered and found and, from here, help to make a smarter system also in this aspect. And then advance in excellence. And excellence we can only find, tourism excellence, if we base it on training, innovation and new technologies. Is it also the way to achieve that in the sector..., this sector of bass below and in this sector of temporality growing them below and reducing the temporality, and with that..., is it denounceable that there are some bass below? Yes, it is denouncing that there are some downsides to the tourism sector and it is denouncing that there are downsides in other sectors, which is also passing through. So, based on these assumptions, what do we define? So, we define a model, a model that we think is what we need like the country, huh? We have a powerful tourism sector, which also integrates an important part of Catalonia's economic structure, which is related to other sectors, a fair remuneration, a continuing training, a use of the new technologies..., in short, all those aspects that improve or help to improve the competitiveness of the sector. And a sustainable sector, yes, but we will have to let this, "sustainable, follow the words mantra that accompany all sectors and all policies; we have to turn it into a strategy. And yes, socially – socially –, that avoids..., or that can combine the tourist with the view, with the resident, but also culturally, is to say that it enriches the possibility of the visit of our culture, of our own culture, in the world. And also mediately: through the entrances of tourism, we can also have more resources to protect the environment. Well, later, in the second part, we'll move on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.198.0	Thank you, Counsellor Baiget. I've got the word Mr. Saladié.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.199.0	All right. Thank you, President. We'd been talking about Barcelona World, this slick in which the government decided to get involved, which is nothing more than a smokescreen to end up rescuing some toxins from the Box, which today doesn't know how to untie itself. The Generalitat has a purchase option of 110_million euros over one hundred_Fifty_hectares. The question here is whether it would be better to allocate..., it is to say, to forget about this question and to allocate all these money to continue with the different plans of diversification and tourist seasonalization that during the last thirty years, therefore, carry developing the different agents of the territory. One question. Could you tell me in what way – of the Generality, of the Diputación de Tarragona, of the joints of the Costa Daurada – is the game considered as one of the touristic products to develop and promote? Because I've been looking at it, I've asked agents, and no one can tell me that the bet for the game is planned in any way. With all these arguments that we have put forward, from our point of view, tourism, as we have said, is a country problem, because of the overexploitation of the territory, because of the unsustainable burden that generates many times to the resident population. We can't continue with this policy of growing up more and more, but what we have to do is develop, anyway, right? Growing up, we can grow up to certain limits, but we understand that these limits have already been exceeded. If not, what we generate in the end are important imbalances: with barrels impossible to live, as we have commented, or commarchs, also, inside and in the mountains, with a very large share of empty habitats throughout the year, but that, in change, people have to leave because they cannot access the price that marks these second residences. And, before this situation, the Government, in working accounts to generate productive alternatives to the tourism sector, continues with expansionary policies; promotional policies– this year is predicting that the Catalan Tourism Agency will participate in fifty-three international fiefs –; apparador policies, as we have commented, with misrepresentation of public resources; deregulation policies of the sector that will ultimately benefit the return speculators, with a series of deregulations, right? : the decree on the regulation of tourist accommodation, which is not so simple..., of such a deregulation that it does not include neither the method of tourist accommodation of the hostels; the deregulation of the travel agencies, through a proposal for the deletion of Articles 54 and 55 of the Tourism Law – certainly, a law of the year 2002 which has been dedicated to manipulating and distorting, through the back door, through modifications of the accompanying law –; the amendment of the regulation for the declaration of tourist municipalities, extending the range of situations, with which any municipality will probably be able to declare touristic, or the impulse – recently, no? – the Project of the law of ports, that favors a private management, extended of the territorial teixit, that limits the access to the harbour fronts and marginalizes the less impacting uses, such as sailing, fishing, etcetera, all encouraging basically the creuers and the great iots. And it is all this – and this will be done with the motion of fifteen days from now – that we ask, ask and ask the Government to put this situation, which is making a comprehensive rethink of tourism policy, starting with the withdrawal of urban planning plans that deepen in the destruction of the territory and in the destruction of public resources – in particular the Catalonia Circuit and Barcelona World's CRT –; the withdrawal of the proposal for a decree to regulate tourist accommodation, and the establishment of a moratorium on new buildings intended for the tourist accommodation in all the territories; the annulment of the classification of tourist accommodation; the removal of the proposal for a regulation of tourist accommodation, and the establishment of a moratorium on new buildings intended for the tourist accommodation in all the territories; the cancellation of the designation of tourist accommodation; the restoration of the dignity of tourist accommodation in the tourist sector, and the establishment of a moratorium on the use of tourism accommodation in all the territories; the removal of the designation of tourist accommodation in the tourist sector, pre-precstutually, in the context of the application of tourism in all the territory; the country; the possibility of the designation of the location of tourism; the location of work; the location of the location of the location of the location of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of work, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the location of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the location, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, of the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, the tourist, of the We will also plan to reconfigure the Catalan Tourist Agency, which is basically dedicated to tourism promotion, with an agency that we could call "touristic work, or even "touristic damage", and that you manage this other 50_percent of the fund to apply these policies in the line we have just commented on. Also, to carry out a public audit from the situation prior to the rescue of the ski resorts until the present day, debugging all the responsibilities that need to be debugged; to present alternative – economic – proposals to tourism, based on the local economy, the economy of territorial resources, already in the primary sector and all the secondary ones, and to stop subsidizing with public money those cultural events directed basically to tourists to the detriment of the development of culture directed to the residents. These are some measures that we defend here, but that we also defend in the street, and with the will, right? , and the idea of working for a republic that we want to build, which is not based on territorial spoli, which is not based on the precariousness of work, nor on the ethics of casinos, nor on public bailouts of failed private investments, nor on the expulsion of the veins of their home, nor of their barrels, nor of their municipalities, nor on the promotion of port culture, nor that which encourages the enrichment of speculators in the perjury of the majority. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.200.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. There's a word from Councilman Baiget.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.201.0	Thank you very much. You in your intervention referred to Barcelona World, the CRT, and how it is and how it does..., how you think it is a project that is only linked to the game's surroundings. No, look, in the CRT project, the game is just a little bit more, actually, it'll end up occupying a 4-per-cent of everything that's the project, huh? – it is small, of a much more global project that integrates other elements; other elements because, in fact, it is a space that will only use, of all the space that has been available, 37_percent of the soil that could be occupied, therefore, is not an extensive occupation of the soil, and there is: a more important part is the hotel part; then, there is the commercial part, which is in a 6_per_cent; the share of actions linked to the reading, which is a 16_per_cent, and the share of the game is only a 4_per_cent. And, listen, when we talk to the territory – you talk to the territory and you do the politics on the street, but we also talk to the territory – we see how the professional colleges, the unions, the businesses and the municipalities in a majority way – in a majority way – have expressed their support for this project. So, listen, they must not be too far from reality and they must not be too far from what it is, from how strategic this project is for a series of regions in the country. And that reminds me of what happened with Port Adventure to middays of the eighties, beginnings of the nineties. Now it is a reality; a reality that is regarded as an actiu, an actiu turistic, an actiu that is important, that helps them come..., that is believed to be rich, that comes quality tourism, that, for example, it is possible to deconcentrate a part of the tourism that comes to Barcelona; now it has believed that they will tend their origin and end and destined, from this year, to Tarragona. And that's in good part thanks to Port Adventure. Listen, when did it start, huh? I was also talking about if there were any doubts, if there were any doubts, if it could be done, if it wouldn't come out. Listen, it was a success. It was a country success. And things went on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on And you can be very, very proud of it. And, therefore, from experience of doing these projects we have and will continue to apply it and we will continue to do it in the CRT project; a project that has continued, that is open and that I hope that at the end of June, therefore, we already have the result of its..., of all the process that has been done and of all the competition that is opened at these moments. And you were talking to me about the model. Miri, experience the rest of the world about the coexistence of this touristic model or this CRT model with others are there, and there are no conflicts; they do not generate conflicts either, for example, when you have a space with enclosed spaces like the creuers, where there is a family tourism that is permanent and there is a space linked to the game. Here there is no conflict between the activity of the game and a space of tourism or family lleure. Listen, and at the Costa Daurada 55_percent of the clients on the Costa Daurada are clients with families with children under the age of thirteen. And none– none– neither operators, nor brokerage, nor hoteliers, nor this action that can be more affected and more linked to family tourism than Port Adventure, no one has complained about this project. So, listen, it's not... we don't think it's a negative project, on the contrary, we think it's a positive project, a project for the country, huh? We do regulate, and we do regulate in a way... the instruments of tourism policy. Through what? Through a strategic plan, which we will now renew, and through a marketing plan. Because, yes, all countries, in one way or another, are promoting; even those that are sustainable tourism, and all those that are also captivating in what they want to put on and with the label that they want to put on "sustainable tourism, they are also promoting. What do we want? We want to make a promotion that yes, that extends from areas that are concentrated, and that passes them out of certain periods and out of the period of Barcelona. Miri, this week, this weekend, we're going to be happy to pay off, that what you want is to bring people from the capitals, from the cities, to the camp so that they can see what life is like in the camp, and that this is also a wealth, and to help people in the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.202.0	Thank you, Counsellor Baiget. [[Question to the Government about the planning and management of the airport of Barcelona - el Prat]] [[300-00176/11]] The twelve points of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on the planning and management of the airport of Barcelona - the Prat. To expose it, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.203.0	President. Counselors, Counsellor Rull, especially... well, what I'm about to really expose is a shame that has touched him to live in our country these past few weeks. There is still a problem with the implementation of the new legislation on the implementation of the new Schengen border control code, which was to enter into force on 7 April, which has been known since many months, months and months. And the absolute lack of forecasting, and I would say win, on the part of the Spanish State, and even certainly intentional on the part of the Spanish State, has converted what should be a normality and a continuous good job that is always at the Prat airport into an absolute chaos and has generated numbers of up to three hours of delay, when the maximum acceptable in these cases is twenty minutes. Moreover, this situation, apart from warning of the same Schengen regulations, had already been previously warned by the General Council of Airport Routes. To hear what really happened, I think the best thing is to try to read, huh? , some of the complaints or witnesses of people who actually saw it, because I think it's what really reflects it best. I'll read some cases of people, passengers, going through this situation. Some said: "There was neither single nor tape to distribute the skins; there was only one civilian guard trying to order the passengers, but as he did not speak English, most tourists did not understand anything. Another goddess said: "There have been moments of anxiety. That's where we're moving. We didn't know what was going on. The children were crying. The parents had to push them to collide because, if not, they were suffocating. There were people very anxious because it was really impossible to move's. A girl travelling to London explained that the British who took the flight with her were shocked by the malfunction of Prat airport. Some Argentines, for example, said that they had been more than two hours simply because they looked at the passport and that there were only three windows open, and they were very slow, when there were very, very many people. A French couple said it was a shame, that it had been three hours just after they got off the plane. Other phrases that are repeated a lot were: « Hundreds of people – that's what it said for the same passengers – « trapped in the passport control, seeing how their planes drifted towards the destination without them being able to be among them. Or another witness explained that there were four control tapes to go through, and there was only one working. Well, and so we could continue; in most cases there were only one or two people who attended the arrivals or departures of the planes that were to arrive from Prat, let's remember, one of the most important airports in all of Europe, that held, I repeat, one or two people, only, attended the majority of arrivals or departures from this, so to speak, airport from first to international level and one of the best in Europe. Even there have been episodes of tension between the passengers and even there has been, to say the least, trouble. And even arrests of passengers because, say, the tension was too high, and even got hurt by a cop. I mean, there have been moments of absolute chaos. Therefore, this is a chaotic issue. And in the end, the only answer that the Spanish Government has had, in this case by Mr Millo, as the delegate of the Spanish Government, is that we have a little patience. The response of the Spanish State is that we have a little patience. It is a clear lack of forecast, which has not really been planned at all. The only reaction was precisely the call that you made, as a counselor, just with Councillor Baiget, to try to concentrate, therefore, the Barcelona Assembly, the Prat Assembly, AENA, Cambra de Comerç, and which were asked for explanations. This meeting was convened by the Government Delegation, which did not attend. I, the first question I would like to ask you is: to know what you deserve, I say, the fact that the main officials who do not operate the Prat airport are not present without a meeting convened for the Government of the Generality – for you yourself – to try to solve this problem. The second question I would ask is whether the Government Delegation to you has explained anything to you, and whether it intends to remain at some point, or what measures it has undertaken to do with the Government of Catalonia for this, indeed, to deal with this chaos, this problem and this bad image, so to speak, of the Prat airport. And, therefore, also, this bad image of Catalonia, in line with what we talked about before – precisely, in the previous inquiry – for tourism and tourism promotion, one of the main industries of our country. As far as the government delegate promised me, I know a lot about it, I know it's... I know it's progressing, I know it's down, I know it's down, I know it's down, I know it's down, huh? We constantly suffer from the shortcomings of the Spanish State and know that the commitments of the Spanish State are absolutely silent. You know, I don't think I'm gonna say it, and then I'm gonna comment on some of the ups and downs we've got in our region. But really, counselor, what I'm afraid is that apart from this lack of forecast, what really... what's behind is no longer incompetence, but really the feeling is that this is a boycott of Prat airport. We can give examples, today we have not even met one through the press: a convenient signed with the Russian State, with Russia, on behalf of the Spanish State, in which it is expressly forbidden that there may be flights through the transsiberian air space that do not depart from Madrid, that do not depart from the airport of Barajas. Only flights through Russia are allowed if they depart from Barajas. Therefore, we prevent, for example, from Barcelona being able to go to Japan. I don't know if it's random or not, or I don't know if it's part of these incontestable favors or secrets explained by the Spanish Foreign Minister, that just months after this agreement it turns out that we found a Russian fleet heading to Syria, that it had to stop putting fuel on Ceuta, huh? Casualities of life. Then, months after the signing of an agreement, there appears to be a secret clause, an incontestable secret, an incontestable favor on the part of the Spanish State, that the Russian fleet going to Syria must stop putting fuel in Ceuta. Even raising complaints from NATO, huh? I mean... and even the European Parliament. Power is... I, therefore, when I see these things, clearly, here what you see behind is a clear will to boycott our infrastructure and our country. Well, in the end, the key, it seems to be, for what they explain, is the lack of police. I do not know, I, the truth, have the feeling that police to make false reports – I could explain to us Mr. Guinó, that we have him here – or police per..., there are no envelopes. Or police, even, to control other airports: the airport of Madrid...; the rest of the country's airports have not had this problem, only two: the Prat and the Mallorca airport, a little less than the Prat airport. So I'm asking you two questions, too. The question that is asked everyone: how can it be explained that, knowing from a few months and months ago, that April 7th hinders the new measures, has not been done because there are these measures in force, the minimum to guarantee the minimum set time of twenty minutes. And the other question, if I can answer it: how is it explained that there are sufficient effects for all airports in the Spanish State and that there are not, precisely, for the Barcelona airport? Jo... really, I can't wait to hear it. I repeat, the only explanation, or the only purpose, if you just look at what has been going on in the main infrastructures that pass through our country, is that there is a clear willingness to boycott. That envy, there can only be two explanations. Envy, because it is also true and it is known that one of the main economic and competitiveness bases of a country is its airport. We have managed that Barcelona airport is one of the main airports in Europe and it has also been the airport of Europe that has grown more in the last two years; it has grown as long as it has increased its number of passengers by 63_per_cent, reaching up to 44_million, and it has increased until it reaches forty-one direct international connections this year. And that's exactly what happened in the same period when Madrid Barajas had twice as many investments as the Prat airport. But, yes, by chance, twice as many investments..., the Prat airport, the Catalonia airport, grows a 63_per_cent and the Madrid Barajas airport has a 12_per_cent less benefits than the Prat airport. It gives the feeling that you can without wanting – or wanting –, someone is trying to make Barcelona airport less competitive and less advantaged or less famed than Barajas airport, which is the jewel of AENA's crown. Power is random – I see too many randoms, but, well – we see many randoms, that passed the same with the port of Barcelona, that when the expansion of the port did not arrive neither the road investments nor the railway investments... Well, counselor, say so, before I go on, I'm pretty clear about the feeling that this didn't happen, or much less, by chance. Here at the end there is a willingness to clearly harm Catalonia. And behind this attempt to harm Catalonia, in the end, what happened is to harm the people who go through it worse. Why is this good work that's been done since our country, huh? , with all the institutions, from airport and port of first, what ends up generating is just competitiveness for companies and better able to get foreign investments. When that goes wrong, because there is a very clear boycott on the part of the Spanish State in this sense, in the end, what happens is that we have less economic competitiveness and it also ends up harming the people who are looking for work and not finding it. Therefore, this defense is not only of the passengers I have explained and put in view to the principle, who are going through poorly in an undeserved way, but also to ask you what the government is doing and how you think we can get out of it, just to keep this spirit competitive and this airport that is so necessary because our country is still moving forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Couples. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.205.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Member, thank you for raising this question on a question that is absolutely strategic, phonenal. We need an airport that is very powerful, very competitive, and we have always explained it: Barcelona airport, physically, the new terminal, Terminal 1, is designed to be an airport with the will to be a large hub. Physically this is designed, a terminal between tracks with much ease to guarantee connections, to guarantee the ability to work in the network. Physically, that's what we have, with a reversal planted with very reasonable terms. We are talking that the reversal to the airport of Barcelona, the T-1, which is extraordinarily profitable, was of about 3,000_millions, the half that the T-4 of the airport of Madrid, which has less benefits than not the airport of Barcelona. We have this first element. One_second element we have is, let's say, the geographical location of the airport of Barcelona, drawing a very powerful virtuoso triangle between port, airport and the Free Zone, and the ZAL, also of the port of Barcelona. And also the extraordinary proximity you have with the city of Barcelona itself. This is rare in other airports. We've got it. So, physically we're talking about an airport conceived, designed in its moment to be a hub, with all the consequences; second, very good location in geographic terms; third, the power that Catalonia and Barcelona have, which was extraordinary, that pulls a lot, a lot, and that's why the data you pointed out. And that's why, within the AENA network, the extraordinary benefits that Barcelona airport has. This is a third element, a third variable of this equation, the result of which we do not like. But there is the fourth element, which is the difficulty of being able to make strategic decisions in time with all resources at the bottom. And this is the problem that we mainly have at Barcelona airport. That it is a claim that has not only made this Parliament on various occasions and with various political colors in the government and with various compositions, and that it has also made this government, the government of President Puigdemont, but the joint venture of civil society in a very broad sense. We believe that Barcelona airport has the capacity to take its own decisions, an individualised management. Here's the gentleman... we have Mr. Germà Bel, who has written a lot about this subject and has made a strategic vision about this subject. That's what he misses in a very – very – strident way. In a double sense: in a first sense, we, at the time of getting intercontinental flights, we had a lot and we had to create an instrument that was extraordinarily useful, which is the Roads Committee, to which you refer. The Routes Committee, integrated for AENA, Barcelona airport, for Cambra de Comerç, for the Generalitat de Catalunya, for the Assembly of Barcelona, which has had a very significant ability to go looking for customers coming to the airport of Barcelona, but without practically any margin of being able to make a powerful commercial policy, own, that marked radically the difference. What do you mean? In the following sense: Barcelona airport has some benefits around €400_million; Barajas airport has some benefits around €30_million. But Barcelona airport taxes are only a little lower than Madrid airport taxes. What does that mean? It means that with these levels of benefits, with the ability to make decisions, with individualised management from the airport of Barcelona, we can offer the best taxes to those companies that are interested in occupying the best slots, the best slots, that hold as the basis the airport of Barcelona, that in addition to low-cost companies, that may be interesting, but we need to expand the abst. There is a fact that currently only in round figures of the order of 6_per_cent of Prat's passengers are connected to other flights. Therefore, we are far from being a hub with all the consequences. We must have the ability, it is a very graphic, very practical demand, to be able to do an individualized management thinking about the territory itself, thinking about the interests of the airport of Barcelona. And, therefore, when you make this reference to the increase in intercontinental flights that has occurred, you have a heroic point, to say the least, and it is very good thanks to the muscles that Barcelona and Catalonia have. But now imagine if beyond this element of inertia, because the country had a lot and the city had a lot, we could fully deploy the ability to make a policy, let's say, commercial, powerful, bold, that you allow us to anticipate - there. Therefore, first element. I'm seconded. There are some basic questions for the Barcelona airport, which you described in your inquiry, in which, let us say, there was a glaring error in planning, which is all that refers to passport control from the moment that there is a change in regulation at European level. And you were asking the question of the million, or so, if this came into operation on April 7, why didn't they make the decisions that correspond when they correspond? The Routes Committee, in which there was also AENA, already warned before May 1, that it was the first day that an obvious col·lapse was expressed, that this could happen, because the name of the intercontinental offer this summer will increase in a very significant way. And, therefore, it is important that you make an advance. This is the basic idea and this is the key point: why didn't there be this planning element? You asked concrete questions: "What has happened? First, I insist, we do not have the capacity to take decisions at the Barcelona airport level that would correspond. But, second, there's a structural issue. I quote the title of a book by the deputy Germà Bel, Spain, capital Paris – it seems to me that it was exactly that title. There is a conviction that the airport of Madrid is the great airport of Espanya and that the rest of the airports are subsidiary, and that, therefore, the airport of Barcelona is subsidiary, from this perspective. There was a former socialist minister, Magdalena Álvarez, who, one day, in an exercise, let's say, in sincerity, said: "Serious countries only have a large airport of reference. This is a peculiar concept of what it means to be a serious country, isn't it? And, therefore, the great airport in Spain is said Madrid; the rest must be feeders. And you asked: "Why did this happen in Barcelona and not go anywhere else? Why didn't he come to Madrid? – why didn't he come to Madrid? So, because Madrid is designed from the base to be a great intercontinental connecting airport, and that's why there's this anticipation. And this anticipation did not occur in the case of Barcelona airport. You explained what is the account of the concrete facts and what happened. At these times we want solutions, and that's why we decided to go further than the lament, the complaint, and take the initiative. And we did it the Generality of Catalonia, the Assembly of Barcelona, the Assembly of the Prat, the Chamber of Commerce, to say: "We are looking to reverse this, we are looking to see 'engaged', that we..., the political confrontation is very little profitable. The people who make it to the airport of Barcelona, or the loss of reputation that the airport of Barcelona has had, this, let's say, weighs a lot and, therefore, what we want to be « we can solve it, we can solve it. And so, finally, after having, pressed, negotiated, dialogued, made possible, it was created a follow-up committee that gathered last week, and this follow-up committee that established, basically, there were two things. The first, a few standard exit and entry times. To the exit operations, twenty minutes; to the operations, let's say, from the entrance we would be talking about forty, forty-five minutes as maximum, topall. Therefore, some standards that can be followed and credible. And then, do all the follow-up – this is going to be as serious as ever. What we say is exit operations there is a time when 2,200 passengers converge, which means that there are several flights. And we have to keep the whole operation ready. And second, material and personal, that means so much police stuff, that there wasn't, that there wasn't with the intensity that it was supposed to be, and, on the other hand, the whole informant thing, that if it looks to the second part of the inquiry, we can go deeper. But I wanted to point out that what has happened is a punctual expression of something that is deeper, that is a certain conception, very intense, radial, of what the Spanish State must be at the level of infrastructures that someone has. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.206.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Some applause.]] There's a word from Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.207.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, as always, also, counselor, for your always very good explanations. And the truth is, I also think it's up to me to explain something that's why I'm here and not Germà Bel, that's really what he knows most about all this. And it's because in the background, like my Lower Llobregat partner, that it's where the airport is, but above all it's because it's definitely the region, or one of the regions of the country that sees more clearly what the Spanish State has deserted, directly. I mean, he defected from Catalonia. I mean, you're walking through the region, and you see, you don't seem to see, so, you're up to date. That's to have deserted, it's not there. I mean, where the State should be-there's not there, directly. It is a great advantage, but we must say this especially to my region, because this absolute desertion ends up hurting us in our day-to-day in things as basic and absolute as the freedom of movement is in the end. We are talking about that the Schengen Treaty also forms part of the freedom of movement, and with the ability to be able to get someone economically and a country to pull forward, and what happens with these fights at the Prat airport, for this boycott, left behind and desertion on the part of..., is more of this desertion. You go there and there aren't so many cops who should watch the right step, that people can move with absolute freedom. But you also explained something that I also think is very, very important and very key, and more so at European level. That is to say, all the major airports in Europe and the world have a great capacity for autonomy and that is why they are trained and able to compete. And you explained, in the end we find ourselves before an absolutely radial mentality, that it is an ancient mentality, of the 18th century, of how a country should really face itself. And in the end, it's what's happening to us, this mindset of the Spanish State is what brings us badly to having, let's just say, these three-hour coves, and everyone who visits our country through the airport really sees where we are, that it's almost a third world country and that, I repeat, has deserted our country. I, above all, would also like to know what we need to do right now, because we are willing to present a young man where we clearly ask to demand, apart from explanations of what he has been through, also in the face of his own months and especially this study there is not the least of them but what we really deserve and pay for. Why, then, don't we forget that we're also paying taxes so that there are these cops covering these infrastructure, that we're paying them, huh? But apart from that, what I'm most concerned about is that more than the figures we've donated, that we've reached 44_million passengers through the Prat airport, the forecasts say that in the next fifteen years the Prat airport will double its capacity. What's very clear is that if we go on like this now it's impossible for us to get ahead. Home, as a parliamentary group you know, because I believe a lot more, we are very clear as we have to. Let's just say, we're building this new state, we're in the process, and we'll get independence, because most people in our country want it. But also, even though it is symbolically and to prove to these people that they suffer every day by doing these things, for example, let's say, at the Prat airport, what it is that, for example, is passing through the management skills of the Prat airport, that it is a historical competence that has made this Parliament and the great institutions of this country unanimously and that they have not even listened to us. And in the end, even though we are working for independence, which will solve it, we have to put on the table in this Parliament these constant shames of the Spanish State, huh? Why in the end, now that they're telling us... that it's something I'm really surprised at, huh? Let me tell you what ministers now tell us that we have been struck, that we have been told by others, that we have always fought for freedom, or that we defend precisely the ballot box. Just the ones who defend democracy and freedom are the hit. But I, the feeling that I have, I repeat, passing through my region or the country, is that the only one there is the State constantly hitting our country, the institutions, the infrastructure and the day-to-day lives of people, really. They hit because we can't move forward, that's really what they do. If we're talking about hitting me, if they want to talk to us, they'll come here and they'll know what it's like for people a state that doesn't work, not that it doesn't work, but it works just to see that we don't pull forward. And I think it's worth taking advantage of, don't you? Let's say, these weeks, also last week – we're talking about airports – the one that passed with the letter as well, President Rajoy's response to the petition for a dialogue and a pact by the President of the Generality. In the end, I am very clear that it will be the last time, I hope, the young lady that we are doing, that we will ask that the Prat airport is passed, because we have actually already arrived at..., we are on the flight, right? We're already out, and we've already arrived, after last week, with this answer, to the point of no return. And Spain, on this flight, which is the future of Catalonia, did not want to be or want to be there. And in any case, if it could have been there, it would have been stuck in this as long as they themselves had generated so as not to ask for resources, because in the end, if Spain was left without being able to be in the flight of Catalonia, it is because of its own contradictions and its lack of wanting to think about us. And the proof is that the passengers are staying on the ground because Spain doesn't do what it has to do to our country; in this case that will be on the ground will be Spain and who will fly out or who we are flying out without returning to us, our country, Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and soundings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.208.0	Thank you, Mr. Couples. I got the word Councilman Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.209.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Now what you're talking about, Mr. Congressman, is that things go well, that's the point, because here, I insist, we play a lot. Look, there's a date, it's a very moving date. There are more than 4 million intercontinental passengers who do not have direct destinations to fly to Barcelona or from Barcelona, which means that they have to use other airports of interconnection, scale, in order to access their intercontinental destinations. That's why for the last few weeks, I, as a territorial and sustainability advisor, had to do nice and interesting things, which is to give welcome to us, huh? Direct flight to Shanghai, direct flight to Chicago... And what do they always explain? There is a market that is extraordinary – that is extraordinary – but why these 4_million_i_mig passengers with destination to Barcelona or from Barcelona can operate on direct flights, not scale, which is, let's say, capable of making decisions and above all does not misrepresent the good reputation that the airport of Barcelona has so far. That's the basic idea. That's why it's so important that we can get out of it; that's why we did the commission. And in that committee, what did they tell us? There was a compromise to count with 144 additional state police for the summer season; equipped with what we have in green jackets, which is civilian personnel to facilitate the control of automatic passports. And let them know, I'm sorry, because what's unheard of is when there's this control on ABC and it's asking for some attention, there wasn't anyone with the ability until now to give a minimally solvent explanation in English. This is catcher, to hear us – I know very well at the time of using the adjective. Acquisition of eighty we equipment verifiers: fifty manuals – there were forty-six in April – and thirty automations – there were twenty-four – and better telematic connections to speed up the verification and control process. These are the elements on the table. If they have these elements it is possible to prolong the situation. We have already warned that this past day was the test of fire and the first test of fire seems to have passed. Now, this diver will have the second meeting of the follow-up committee; in this case, with a more technical nature. We want to be on the data every week, monitor the data, see exactly what has happened. They point out that in the operations of the diumenge, which is the most complex day, in the morning at T-1, there is, let's say, connection between the cracks and the terminal, terminal 1, and on the evening above terminal 2, is where the maximum voltage levels are produced. It seems that the medium – now we just have to believe it –, this divender, from the start it was twenty minutes and from the start it was thirty minutes. What we need to look at is that... this, we can consolidate it; it's very important that we get out. And, therefore, the Government of Catalonia will be very much over there – very much over there. I insist, we must go beyond the complaint – absolutely logical –, the claim, the complaint to believe that there are solutions on the table. That's the idea. I recall that at the first meeting that we had..., and I keep words from the mayor of Prat de Llobregat, who said: "We, the institutions, the four– Assembly of Barcelona, Assembly of Prat, Chamber of Commerce, Generalitat de Catalunya –, may not have direct competences on this issue, but we do have a direct responsibility in relation to the citizen of Catalonia and the economy of that country. And, therefore, we assume this responsibility to, folded, form part of the solution; try to articulate solutions. But they can't always be on top. Now, I insist, let's see if this goes back. This diminution of things went well. We'll be a lot on top of it, we'll have to believe that these commitments are complete by and large. Because – in your opinion – when you explained what the situation of the cots was, especially at the time of entering, there are no benches, there are no washrooms, there is nothing. Three hours right there is a situation of a tension that is extraordinary – close parenthesis. We have to be on top, there can be no incident again of these characteristics at the airport of Barcelona. They're playing a lot of us. And here what we can't do is every time there's this going to be cell and earth moving, shaking, reporting, looking. This has to come from offices. And that's why we say: we want to take our decisions; we want an individualized management of the Barcelona airport; we want to be able to decide the full extent of the issues. And it suits what you're referring to is the second expression of that. So, that's the idea. In any case, we want to give a message, especially to the international community, that "we will be working on it because the Barcelona airport continues to have the highest levels of reputation that it has so far. This is a country that wants to open the world and we need a powerful door to access the world, and because the world is accessing Catalonia, which is the airport of Barcelona. Thank you, Mr. Deputy, Mr. Members and Mr. President. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-31-3601.210.0	Thank you very much, all of you. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
