ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Assumpta Laïlla of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, who at yesterday's sitting delegated her vote to the chairman of her parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Turull, today the delegate to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Marta Rovira. [[Asking the Government about the balance of a year of government]] [[300-00130/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the balance of a year of government; presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.2.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies and deputies... It has been more than a year since they arrived in the government, and, according to Citizens – I suppose you won't miss it – the balance is desolating. I'm going to give you a little review of several of the departments where the government's activity has shined because of its absence. It has been an inactive government. In Catalonia, we are suspending social justice for the weakest in society. According to the UGT, in Catalonia 19_percent of the population lives at risk of poverty, and 12.2_percent of workers have insufficient wages. An attempt was made to make a guaranteed income; you have been dizzinessing the loss for more than a year, and the laws of disconnection, on the other hand, were passed in two days. We do not yet know whether this guaranteed income will be possible to match that with employment income. There are many children, children of part-time parents, many children of single mothers, and this social priority of your Government has been absolutely neglected; for the benefit, yes, of many other things to which you devote yourselves, which are not in the interests of all Catalans. Vice-President Junqueras himself, with regard to guaranteed income, did not want to include any items in the budgets, as in the programme of protection of children, because he said that there was no law to support it. But they did include matches to repeat 9-N again; those are their real priorities. Fix it, in dependence, for example. The report of the Unit Observatory of February 2017 is global, territorial and compares all the Autonomous Communities. Catalonia is fatal with the waiting lists that are in dependence. On the other hand, Castilla y León has zero waiting list in dependency – zero waiting list. And why? For, first, because they manage better, and, second, because they dedicate to dependence a money that supplements that which the State is certainly not putting in. But they, in Castile and León, provide remedy; you have other priorities. The social services portfolio, since 2011, without updating itself; we have repeated it on several occasions, they have never done so. That's in social matters. Education: we continue with barracks for thousands of students and teachers. The barracks..., I remind you that a motion was tabled in July, to end the barracks in four years; it was approved in this Parliament. You should have made a report that should be ready by October. They have not done so, they have not presented it; something that is approved, which is a mandate – this yes – legal. Or do you only fulfill mandates that are not in conformity with the law? When they conform to the laws, as it is to put an end to the barracks, is that not a democratic mandate to be fulfilled, for your government? Look, we were meeting with parents of the Fluvià school in Barcelona, that their children had to go to school. All primary education in a Barcelona school in barracks. Now they come to a high school and have more barracks. And the parents feel swindled. They say: "My children will not have met a normal school in their entire student life. Do you feel it is normal for the Government to engage in other things, and for a report on barracks to be requested and approved here, and have not even done so in the report? Zero-to-three education is essential for equality and equal opportunities, because it affects children from disadvantaged families more precisely. How much money does the Generalitat spend on teaching zero to three, one of these priorities? Zero. Nothing is done for the education of zero to three of our children, nor is anything done to improve the working conditions of female educators. In health. Look, I remember what our first health motion was, presented by our colleague Jorge Soler. We asked them to reactivate the ambulances that were parked by the cuts. Do you know where these ambulances are? Parked where they were; they're still there. I remind you that you promised to improve the waiting list. And the flu has come and the hospitals have collapsed. It has been a year and health personnel are still fed up with unfulfilled promises. Hospitals are visiting, things are promised – that things are renewed, more units, more promises – and then budgets arrive and nothing, nothing at all. Look, what your government can say proudly is that there are already more than six hundred doctors who have emigrated from Catalonia, as well as from other groups, such as that of nursing. That's right, they also allocate more resources to computer material than ever before, in that bubble where they put the 400_million_euro money into computer technology, which I don't know very well what they're spending on, if it's not in making databases. In promoting occupation and labour issues, an increase in exponential labour sinestrality in 2016. And it is not because of economic growth, because it has risen more than economic growth, labor sinestrality. And that also exposes a speech, if I may, something... maybe we could say even supremacist, about your government, right? , i.e.: "We, what we manage, do very well. If we managed the rollers we'd be the pear, us. Uy, it's just that Catalans do everything very well! For, look, exclusive competition in labor sinestrality since 2010, and go from bad to worse, and it has always been managed by its governments of Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. Finally, there is a lack of autonomous measures, for autonomous ones, in Parliament. Companies, which is the creation of wealth from which in the end everything is sustained..., because the whole welfare society is sustained thanks to economic growth, thanks to the efforts of companies, the self-employed and all the workers who day by day raise the blind and work. You, in that, have distinguished yourselves by making a law of chambers of commerce, which, well, absolutely blew up the sector of chambers of commerce with the first draft that you sent them. They wanted to make you a great chamber that you could control from the government, with an interventionist vocation, the truth, worthy therefore, surely, of your governing partners. And, well, there's all your business initiatives left. The pact «More industry we pushed forward thanks to the opposition, because you were dizzying with that. A table has been made, thanks to the fact that they were told from the opposition: "Listen, look, feel, feel and already start with the pact. Universities: Spain's most expensive rates. You, of Parliament, have a mandate to reduce them by 30_per_cent. Where is this 30_per_cent reduction? Look, we would continue like this, talking about public service, that you don't return the pay to the officials, 2013, 2014; you don't schedule it or say or say anything about it. But, yes, you officials care to go to the demonstrations you call. Subject 'transparency. Well, even under the cover of the Bureau we've been given, so you don't answer. Have they done anything for Catalan infrastructure? Have they done anything to finance Catalans? Have you done anything to improve the relationship between the Government of Spain and the Government you lead? No, they have done nothing; they have done nothing to reverse the improvement of the living conditions of Catalans, they have only focused on the monotheme of the process. And you..., the worst of all is that I now ask you, as a member of the government, and, truth, what you tell me will also have to question you, Mrs Munté; we will also have to question you, because you do not tell the truth. And I was talking to you about government contacts between you and the Government of Spain, and you have not given – you have not given – a true explanation. You appeared before the citizens and said something that has turned out not to be true. And that's what happens. Now you'll go out, you'll talk to me about things, you'll talk to me about numbers... but, really, where is your government's credibility? They don't have it – they don't have it. You're denying everything about the Vidal case, and I'm telling you: you can now deny the Vidal case... you were the first to deny the Vidal case. Well, one day I must admit that what they said in the Vidal case was not false. So, Mrs. Munté, what I'm telling you is that your government... I don't know if it's worth asking you at this point; you're at the end of your path. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.4.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs... Mr. Carrizosa, if I understand correctly, you ask me, as a member of this government, to speak of the balance of this first year of the government of Junts for the Yes. I ask him to do it as many times as anyone. You are a party..., the main opposition party, and your job is this: to ask the government about what they consider opportune. And don't make any progress on what I'm going to answer, 'cause I'm going to try to make this happen for good. Starting from the base that I believe..., and all the people who accompany us today, to the hemicle, surely, therefore, have followed with the same attention that I his intervention, that it could be summed up basically in two ideas: you accuse us of being a government that is obsessed with a single theme – with the monotheme –: the processism; that he sees winged and disconnected from day to day, of the problems of citizenship, and that more than anything else we do not do, more than we do not do anything about it. So, look, the one I have to tell you that I disagree, and that's not true anymore, I'm sorry, because I can hardly think that a government that acted in this way, with problems and needs of citizenship, would hardly blame this government, on the part of a 72.2 of the citizens in question, an approval between a five and a god; I'm referring to the later issue of the CEO. It is difficult, in a government that has seen and done nothing – that has done nothing, as you have said so many times – therefore, in the twenty-three public policies that are valued in this CEO's opinion, they would promote in civic appreciation respect for the latter. Therefore, it is a positive appreciation of the citizens, which contrasts with what is the mantra of Ciutadans, that is, of you. And before you tell me – before you tell me – let's not work because no one applauds us, because this is not the top government pocket, nor are we a cofoist government in the top aspect – in the top aspect. We aspire to more – we aspire to much more. And that's why we're here, with a very concrete mandate, with a very concrete objective, that it's to be able to hold a referendum, and it's to aspire to have a state. Another mantra of his... I said two, but there wouldn't be a third, which is to always counter social justice to the proper state. And it's all the opposite. We are convinced, sadly convinced that, without a state, this social justice, the welfare state, the opportunities for the conjunction of citizenship, are not possible with the current status quo. And that's why we oppose what we are today, the enormous difficulties of context that this government has, but which also have our citizens..., you have spoken of different indicators; you have spoken of indicators that affect the rate of growth, that affect the rate of poverty, we can talk about the difficulties of social entities, of our assemblies. And we believe, honestly, that I say it..., and we have, moreover, a warrant in this sense that it is clear, that it is explicit; a warrant that you do not share – and that is very legitimate. But let us act in such a way as to compliment the electoral program with which we competed in the 27 September elections and the government program that we approved in this chamber. And I'm telling you this because we haven't fooled anyone – we haven't fooled anyone. We were very clear in the election program, and after the ballot box gave us confidence, in the government program that President Puigdemont exposed in this chamber. And so our plan of government speaks of getting a country more just, precisely with more welfare for everyone – you have made many references to welfare, then I will mention – with more and better work – you have talked a lot about the difficulties of the working world; I can't agree more – and also from the perspective of the good practices within the framework of democratic regeneration. And precisely we want all this because we don't live alone, because we have listened to the city. And it is all these aspects that we prioritize in our government action and also in what is the presuppositional priority; of the assumptions that, in fact, we were not able to approve 2016– you did not contribute to it either – and those that we hope we can approve this year 2017, where the priority of social investment, of many of the questions that you have mentioned in the first part of your intervention..., are perfectly identifiable in objective terms. And that's all we want to do – that's all we want to do – but that's not just what we want to do. It is also obvious that we want to make a reference, if it is possible to agree with the State. But this reference, therefore, has a name, which is "the reference to give the city a voice in order to be able to decide on our future political collection, which has so much to see with all these questions of social justice that you have considered and that they start from the base that they give the skeleton; so, no, I assure you that they go well and well from the hand. This is an exceptional legislature; it is also the government – we say it always – that is resisting a lot of setbacks, Mr. MP, and that is kept just as firm and committed as the first day. If you're interested in talking about everything that this government has done, it'll accept that I can't, no matter what, agree that the government has done nothing. You are not a participant, precisely, in many of the things that this government has done, because we have discussed them here or decided them among all, because there are a lot of questions that go beyond what was strictly the plan of government, which, as it cannot be otherwise, is an open and dynamic plan that has adapted to the different needs of the citizenry, mandates that arose from this Parliament, which the government is developing. And I'll be able to tell you, so many of these questions. Let's talk about what this government has done well, what it has done very well, what it has done regularly and what it has done wrong; but the government has done many things. And, therefore, they ask him not to come here with another mantra, which is this one that the government has done nothing, because this does not stand the test of the elbow. I start with some of the aspects that you refer to in your intervention. You were talking to me about the area of dependence. He says Catalonia is in a fatal outage; he compares us to Castella and Lleó. I want to guess it's not a comparison, let's just say, mass – mass – lucky. In Catalonia the prices are, as a matter of fact, a 20_per_cent more cars than in Castella and Lleó. The resources per liquidation on the basis of homogeneous competitions are, in Castella and Lleó, of 2,617_euros per capita; of 2,196, in change, in Catalonia. In Catalonia we have a fiscal capacity of 117,6_per_cent, and in Castella and Lleó of 99,5_per_cent. So, it doesn't seem like an example to me, let's just say, but that's why you're here to me. On the other hand, and in the field of dependence, that I know a little, it should be analyzed what is the percentage of public funding on the set of places. Because, as you know very well, there are public places, there are concerted places, and there is also what we call the linked economic benefits, which is the economic percentage that arises to cover a certain percentage of the concerted place. You know perfectly well – you know perfectly well –... I'm not talking about Castella and Lleó adding resources to those who don't come from the State, because he knows perfectly well that this is happening in Catalonia too, and it's happening in a bloody way and many years ago. More than 80_percent of the resources used to cover the Law of Dependency are laid by the Government of the Generality. And the contribution of users via copaying exceeds the contribution made by the State. You, with your influence at the level of the Government of the State, could work so that things would return to what they were to be, to which the Law of Dependency mandated, that it was a financing on equal parts. And I would say – and soc of letters – that an 82_per_cent are not equal shares, in relation to the contribution in which the State is located. Therefore, in the field of dependence, little demagogicness. We are talking about the patience of many families, of many in the locals, of an entire sector that is capable of generating occupation, and I assure you that also of the patience of a government, of successful governments in Catalonia that are making a great deal of effort to be able to place this support with dignity to people with dependence. You're talking to me about the road network and the infrastructure, and you're telling me that maybe if we manage it, we'll get the pear. Home, a bit of rigour when we talk about the rolling stock, about the constant incompliments, because I'm sure it wouldn't be the pear, but the rush that represents the management of the current rolling stock by the Government of the State..., I assure you that we would greatly improve it, because the Generality Railways management in this sense is model, Mr. MP. [[Greetings.]] And you have another thing to do when you talk about computer science. Oblivious data bases. Do you know what the Information Technology Centre of the Government of the Generality, the CTiTI, is doing? So, one thing as simple, but also as important, as it is to provide information solutions, information systems, together with departments, together with the Administration of the Generality. That's basic, it's like the air we breathe, it's like oxygen, you don't see such strange things. And, honourable Member, if you are so interested in asking the government about the alleged encounters between the two presidents, the president of your parliamentary group held an excellent occasion yesterday at the monitoring session for the president. It's very easy to do it for the networks, it's very easy to do it after, before a microphone of a communication medium; but his obligation was to ask here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Munté: Barracks, what? ; Zero to three years, what? ; waiting lists, what? Ambulances, what? Officials, what? ; university fees, what? He hasn't answered any of that – nothing. You've talked about resolutions... you've talked, for example, about dependency, huh? , and you have referred to the per capita financing index you have..., the per capita money you have in Castile and León compared to Catalonia, and the price difference and... Well, listen, you go and discuss a better financing system and don't leave the Catalan chair empty when these issues are discussed, for example – for example. If you want to do something for the Catalans, go and work, and don't say: "As I don't like it, I break it; that the financing system was agreed by his Republican Left partner and it seemed to him that it was the best financing system that could be agreed. And, thank you, I gather your invitation that we work in Madrid with the influence we have. We already do. We have already imposed a lot of conditions and we are already beginning to do that; which you, from the henhouse of Congress, cannot do, unfortunately. You mention me – you mention me... [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't worry... You mention that you would do very well to manage rhaelies, because« it fixes how well we manage Railways of the Generalitat. The Generalitat Railways... it's true. But it's true that the Generalitat Railroad network is much more like a subway network than one of rolling stock; that's true, the management is different, huh? And besides, you're not – you're not – precisely... Hey, the management of metro line 9. The cost of line 9 of the subway, to whom is it due? To the state? All the money that has been spent there and the time that has been invested and we do not have a 9_de_metro line in condition. And finally, Mrs Munté, in this balance sheet, in the end, what we have left is that your Government is going to pass into history by inaction, by instability, by uncoordination, by disloyalty to more than half of Catalans who did not vote for them and to those who leave you without government, without barracks, without zero to three years, without waiting list, without ambulances; half of those who did not vote for them and all the others. Because, with respect to all the others, you have perpetrated a monumental political scam and have repeatedly lied to your own voters. And don't talk about the referendum and this about the referendum, because on their agenda they didn't carry the referendum. You here voted against the referendum; so don't tell us you were carrying..., that you are now carrying out a program with this of the referendum, to which you have re-engaged with the..., with the spiral this, the endless loop. Look, you have deceived your voters and have repeatedly deceived them from the government. And I referred earlier to the meetings that you denied and that then existed. You also appeared and denied to the citizens that there had been a pact to arrest the leader of the UPCs with the Mossos, and then it was shown that that pact had existed and that they remained friendly and called them before and took him to the National Court. You... you were part of a government that said you were going to disobey the Constitutional Court. And then we found out in the judgment that they did not – that they did not – believe that they were not disobeying and that they were complying with the law. They also tricked us with their sophistication. Turns out not. Careful, Mrs. Munté, because now you're denying..., came out the first to deny, too, the issue of Judge Vidal. Be careful, because next week will begin – or in a couple of weeks' time, in early March – the trials of the Palau case by the 3_per_cent commissions, which Mr. Mas and other members of his party have so many times denied and politically disengaged from all that immense corruption that has occurred. And in the end, do you know what's going on? That the truth leaves many with their feet changed. When the truth comes out, everyone becomes aware and they end up knowing the lies that have been told since their government. And you don't just tell lies to this opposition, you don't tell lies to this Parliament, you lie to all Catalans. And they do nothing and they are a government that does not care for the interests of all Catalans. [[Someone says: "Very good!]] [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word Munté Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament... if an inquiry into the balance of the first year of running the door to you, without further argument, to talk about the Palau case, then listen, shut down and let's go. Because I thought, Mr. Congressman, that you wanted what you wanted. [[applause]] Of course, it was talking about the barracks, the law of dependence, the lists of waiting for salvation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, I've already answered some of these things: we've talked about dependency, we've talked about rollers, we've talked about computer systems. I haven't had time to do anything else. Allow me to order time as I seem, don't tell me how we have to do things. Okay. Mr President, you asked us to talk about different aspects of social justice, which have to do with social aspects. I remind you that this House celebrated a monogram on the situation of social emergency, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response; that was its name. A lot of resolutions were approved in this Parliament, 83_percent of which are already being applied or in progress. And, therefore, there are many questions relating to the vulnerability of the people who are being treated; currently within the framework, unfortunately, of an extended presumption, but with the expectation of doing so more forcefully from the approval of the own presumption. You were talking to me about the guaranteed income of citizenship and said, "They're not doing anything, they're killing her. No, Mr. Member, we are working so that we can agree on these measures with you, with parliamentary groups – they don't make it easy for us, it's true – and also with the promoters. But, listen'm, the minimum insertion income coverage has been expanded by 70_million. I don't think that's a bad thing, or a bad thing, or a bad thing, or a bad thing, or a bad thing, or a bad thing. And, obviously, we will continue to seek the necessary consensus for what makes the figure of guaranteed citizenship income. You said "the local workers..., that it is true that you are a subject that you have worked with insistence and made many proposals in this sense; I recognize that. So, miri, programs of support to the autonomous worker have been consolidated; lines of help have been opened, precisely to incorporate the young people who have joined the program of youth guarantee. A support work plan has been approved for the corporate atelier. He has worked in the field of youth policies, attention to childhood and adolescence; a subject which you, too, repeatedly – and it seems very good to us – bring to this plenary by way of questioning or asking the Government. So, listen to me, the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood and Adolescence is unfolding, a strategic plan has been launched to promote family bonding. In the area of social protection, a new programme contract has been signed with local authorities, with an investment forecast of EUR 850_million over four years. There has also been a game in the new pressupost, in the pressupost 2017, so as to be able to increase the number of residential places and also in day centres in Catalonia. We have worked in terms of equality to achieve the deployment of the Law 17/2015. For what it does to housing policies, I think it is undeniable the step forward that we have been able to take after the setback imposed on us by the Constitutional Court, to the institutions of its partners in Madrid, of the People's Party, approving Law 4/2016, of measures to protect the right to housing. We have also increased the benefits to avoid habitat loss, so that 2,800 donations could be avoided thanks to the 5,5_million euros available. To say that this is not to make or say that this is to marish the loss, directly, Mr. Member, is to miss the truth, and to miss the effort, not of this Government, but of the local world, of social entities, and on many, many occasions, of the assembly of parliamentary forces of this Parliament, or of most of them, which have supported many of these initials; initiatives of which, moreover, you can do the right thing. He was telling me about the school environment. Listen, we've made a great effort to strengthen, to give more resources to the high-complexity centers, and the councilwoman has made a lot of it, to explain it in her parliament. With four hundred additional teachers, with a reduction in the ratio in the groups of P3, and with the reinforcement of the inclusive school, improving the criteria of the feeding scholarships, and signing a very important agreement..., and this is very recently, perhaps you don't remember, but an agreement with the unions to increase with 5,511 endowments of teachers that will incorporate the coming course. And we are making an important effort, too, for what it does in the areas of prefabricates or barracks. Also in the land of salvation. The presuppositional priority that this Government has in the matter of salvation is undeniable: the Universal Law of Salvation Project, which was approved in this same chamber, and aspects such as the same Tuesday – I finish, President – we approved, as agreed by the Government, in relation to the revision, the renewal of the National Pact for Immigration and the Catalan Refugee Programme, listening, too, to what is a clam of the majority of the citizenry. We would hardly have gotten any money like this, or we would hardly have signed such an important agreement with the unions of the teaching world if we were to live together, as you repeat day after day in your mantra. Fortunately, this is not a majority opinion, and fortunately this government I assure you that it still has much strength to push its plan of government forward, in all those aspects related to social justice, but also to push forward the referendum. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government about his actions in the province of Lleida]] [[300-00131/11]] The next item is the question to the Government about his actions in the province of Lleida ; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.10.0	Well, good morning. Today I come to ask about the needs that Lleida has, and what is the answer that is being done. Well, and preparing for this, I thought of all those visits that the councillors make to the divenders, to the assistance to the fire, to the airport we have, to the opening so magnificent of the very honorable president, of that career without exit dedicated to the 9-N to Montoliu... Well, very much activity, photos of press, etc. And then, I imagined myself asking – and especially listening now to Vice President Munté –..., if I tell her what they're doing for Lleida? So I could answer Monty Python. I suppose you remember Brian's life movie; hear you remember her, counselor? Well, the examples are clear, so they say to the film: "Well, apart from the harpsichord, the sanitation, the teaching, the vi, the public order, the irrigation, the reels and the public toilets, what have the novels done for us? And then I imagine: yes, we do have AVE and canalization and good oil and a magnificent airport, yes, and reelers, we have reelers! How nice the novels! I won't tell you who the current novels are metaphorically, surely there are many, but usually in the middle we are Lleida's. And since the Monty Pythons are talking about infrastructure, so I'm starting to talk about it. What value does it make of Alguaire's airport? You know that we have a magnificent airport that basically serves because angle skiers bid on a ski bus to Andorra. Is there any economic interest in this? Not in Andorra, obviously, or maybe yes... what a strange way to make an airport profitable. Do you have any plans to have any use for the leidatans? The press was about the data you wanted to give to my questions, but now you need to know: what do you think you are doing? Res? Don't they find any more formulas to boost it? Why are we costing so much money at Alguaire Airport? Miri, the leidatans want trains. And we connect to Barcelona with the forward and also with the A-2. The front is a lot because, subscriptions drop in a very short time and when it comes to Sants is not included in the price of the built-in roll-in ticket. Could we gather the government in the proposals that we approved on this here in Parliament, such as integrating the bitlet of rollers? And the same for the Front subscription: could they also go to Madrid and accompany us to connect the readers better? Already, could they ask for it too to connect with Zaragoza? This is very important to the reader. It has been months since our motion for a resolution adopted here, and it remains the same. Counselor, will you finish Lleida's variant? And the variant of the C-12 to Balaguer? The C-12 variant of Agramunt? Lleida's bus station? I wish you to complete, to Road 114, make the tunnel of Tres Ponts. As you say, when you write the columns to Segre, you look beyond this legislature. That's why I looked so far! And since I'm talking about territories, I'm saying high and high that what suits the Pyrenees are 21st century infrastructures, where, by the way, they have reduced the investment by 77_per_cent. I, believe'm, about political colocation offices IDAPA, councils, mountain councils, if curiously for them they do dedicate more economic parties. For example, the Institute of Development of the High Pyrenees and Aran, IDAPA, to which they have doubled the premise; this yes, as you say, making a very important presuppositional effort. How many people to put up with! You wrote to the Secret Diary last week, which the government intends to act in the geographic field of the Pyrenees. That's a lot of names he said? Clearly, then we complain about depopulation. The policies of the later years are making the people of Pirinaeus go away. They have explained in health, in education and in everything that must help to stimulate social balance. As long as we talk – and we just feel it – about social justice, it's also in questions where they should prove it and don't. I am willing to talk about all the incompliments that have been made with Aran; but, well, that I left to the distinguished Member of Parliament Mireia Boya and to my companion, the distinguished Member of Parliament Javier Rivas. Well, since I quote Mr Javier Rivas, he managed here last week to approve the proposal to stimulate once again the actual deployment of the Secarra-Garrigues secondary network, thereby reducing the percentage of minimum regants that should be adhered to. They're gonna give him a compliment right away? Do they think that being able to water is a petition of minimums that the government implements? And the same in the modernization of the Urgell channel. It is urgent to set up a plan to improve the attractiveness of the rural world for young people and thus guarantee generational revenue. Years go by and there's nothing going on about it. We all think that you are very grateful for the great work done by the primary sector for Catalonia, but at the time of truth politics abandons them. It is necessary to revalue and dignify the rural world in all its multiple ages. And not just with words, because the words are all said. The aid for the global operating contract and the Rural Development Programme, which the Council itself explained to us yesterday, is not enough to recover the loss of 47 percent of the budget. 47_percent of the flaps, which now reverse in a 10_per_cent, how do they prioritize them? Didn't they hear the king of the farm a few days ago? One of the main complaints made by farmers is that access to rural areas is very painful. Why do they forget rural roads? You think they're not important? Are you aware that there are so many areas where the Internet is still not up? Well, I'm not even commenting on it if there's an optical fiber, because we already know the answer. And then we'll ask ourselves: why is there so much exodus from rural areas? We can already insist on Lleida's talking about the singularity of the hour. And, in the social sphere, do you know the lack of public places to live for the great people? And the severe lack of housing for people with disabilities, as an alternative to residences? Can they not, please, offer a dignified alternative to the people who are on the waiting list, giving compliment to Motion 48 of this legislature, on measures and policies respecting the situation of social emergence? Do you know that this is particularly worrying in rural areas? It is necessary to increase the presuppositional endowment to cover the need for housing of persons and families that Lleida cannot cope with the payment of the logger or mortgage, in coordination with the different levels of public administration in Catalonia, in order to prevent and give solution to the denouncements of the usual habitation. And that's why I want to promote and facilitate access to second-opportunity procedures and pay-off to protect the interests of the most disadvantaged citizens. Well, in terms of education, I won't insist. You know, you need to know that you've been out here many times. In fact, each legislature approves, for example, the construction of the Cappont Institute, and every time the assumptions are published they do not want to do so. The land has already yielded to it in the hope that it is decided, but, of course, it is an expanding barrel that has grown very much, but which votes the one that votes. And as a result, your children have to move to the institute, as we did in the 1980s. How few things have changed in this sense! Public schools without place for the children of the area... Well, they all have to remember the constant threat they have the lines of P3. Well, as the Carrizosa spokesman said, we still have a student in barracks, children; like, for example, Pinyana school, or Torrefarrera, that the shed is obvious, huh? It's the building behind the council. I know you know that this exists– « this is Lleida. Well, and in culture, I want to complete with the funding you promised for the Morera Museum, because it's an important cultural bet for the territory. Before yesterday we had much illusion, the Leidatans, the announcement of the European 2_millions in Feder funds. The Generalitat is compromised to the disembarkation at 1_million in three years. Just as you can make a major impulse yet of the turó of the Seu Vella. We have few monuments in Catalonia as this one, named the heritage of humanity. Walls cauen and can bet on it because it is a capital heritage. And speaking of education and culture, I would like to make special mention of the University of Lleida. I can make a determined and firm bet for this university, and that's how I can put it into practice. In Lleida, we especially value our university, and the opportunities to improve it are great. President, councillor, councillor, deputies and deputies, Lleida is a great territory where we know the promises of electoral campaigns and where we are after it is very easy that in the whole set of government actions, when the time of truth goes up, we are again the great oblivions. Then, counselor, we opened the television and yes: "Oh! Lleida's a mess. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a concept that I suppose you must ignore, and you must ignore very much. It is a concept that is said to be self-esteem. And it's a concept that says trust in people, in civil society, in the actions that a country has and that it has a territory. If I had read it, I'd be perplexed before his intervention, because it's an intervention. [[applause]] simply based on the weight, on the toilets, and has been unable to put in value the actions that Lleida has; that has Lleida does not respect the action of the government of this government and of previous governments, but of a society that has been able to define which is its course. He has ignored one of the most important elements, which is the power of the agri-food industry in this country, and which has Lleida's solid basis, Lleida's demarcation, and in a very concrete way his engine, his carrier, if I may say so, is the University of Lleida, precisely in the field of research. And here there was a concert work that was extraordinary. But you're not there, you did an intervention on Lleida from outside, not from Lleida herself. He's made a pullout of the headlines. [[applause]] That there may be. Now there's the tweet policy, huh? And you've done a bunch of more or less clever tweets, some based on, others with very little basis, with very little consistency, because later on, I insist, there's an important problem of disconnection from what is the reality of day to day. I'm starting. It's about IDAPA. Let's talk about politics in the Upper Pyrenees and the Aran. It's about IDAPA. IDAPA, basically, the premise that it has is a premise that is destined to the joints to deploy concrete programs. You're obsessed with saying that it's all chapter I, that it's basically staff expense. If you knew at least what this structure means, you would understand that it is a basic piece to guarantee the territorial balance of the country. I don't know. Or when we've made a very important bet for a topic that maybe doesn't come up on the news, doesn't come up on the big media, which is a policy to guarantee access to nuclei, to habitats in the High Pyrenees. And that's why we did a program at the Department of Lands and Sustainability, with the Department of Agriculture, with the Department of Governance, to ensure that just the people can access their habitats, they can access where they live. And that's uplifting, that's territorial balance in pure state. But I'm sure you guys are radically unaware that we're doing this. Or one of the other important things that we owe to term, which is that territorial balance, in order to be able to be, what it needs is to have the basic services guaranteed. For example, at the water supply level. One of the important projects that this government is doing, and that I am convinced – because they have not asked a question or an intervention of any kind – which is a very powerful program..., 10_million last year, 10_million this year, 10_million the year you see, to ensure the supply in quantity and quality to municipalities that have difficulties due to problem of contamination of aquifers or because there are insufficient guarantees. We're talking about last year there was an inversion of more than 2 million euros to Lleida's demarcation. We talk about concrete realities, we talk about concrete actions that improve the quality of life from a point of view to ensure water supply to Agramunt, to Arbeca, to Artesa de Segre, Camarasa, Cubels, the Fuliola, Ivars d'Urgell, Sanaüja, Tarrega, Torrefarrera, Torrefeta and Florejacs, Vallbona de les Monges, Vallfogona de Balaguer, Verdú, Vilagrassa, Vilanova de Maià, Bellver de Cerdanya, Bolvir, Coll de Nargó, Farrera, Fontanals, Ger, Lladorre, Soriguera, Vall de Cardós, Valls d'Aguilar, Valls de Valira, Vielha and Mijaran. This is government action that radically transforms the country's reality. Yesterday we came to a very important agreement to guarantee the supply for four regions, two of which are from Lleida: Segarra and Urgell. This is the ability to transform things. Or, at the time of prioritising certain investments in the matter of reelers, one of the most important investments, perhaps the most important one that lasts for the next few years, that is to guarantee the permeability of the Alt Pirineu precisely with this action at Three Bridges, that means an investment of 40_million euros. This is very relevant; with a very complicated financial situation on the part of the Government of Catalonia. But with this weighty mentality, you ignore a basic element, which is that in the assumptions, you vote against it because it is regardless of what we can propose, because the speech already has the input, this weighty speech, the forecast for 2017 places Lleida's demarcation as the one that will get the most reversal per capita. Of the four demarcations, Lleida – the Lleida obliquea, the Lleida de la boira, the Lleida de la non self-esteem that you have proposed – will be, of the four demarcations, in this project of presupposition, the one that will obtain a transfer in the form of services, investments – especially chapter VI –, more important than the country's conjunction: 128_euros per inhabitant; while the territorialized half-year of Catalonia will be 102_euros per inhabitant. This is a conclosing, blunt data, which turns the skeleton radically to the speech of the lament that you have placed on the table and raised. And then I was surprised that I had incorporated some elements linked to railways. So, look, what have we done to Lleida? And I am connected with the intervention of Mr Carrizosa, who I have seen from the dépatx – bold, also with this idea of an easy-to-iron holder, easy to perpetrate, if it allows me –..., which is the line Lleida - the People, which is perhaps the clearer example of an action that combines two elements: for a band, territorial balance, and, for another band, management capacity. The Lleida line - the people who believe it is that when the Government of Catalonia has the capacity to take its own decisions and has control of trains, lives, stations, we are able to offer in the territory a system of public transport solvent and competitive. And the data are very clear. A year ago, this line was operated by Renfe – who operated on it. Now who operates it is Railways of the Generalitat de Catalunya. In the six-month period – from July to December – in which the Lleida line – the people have been operated by Railways of the Generality, we have increased the number of users by 90_per_cent. And that's concrete, that's territorial balance, that's the ability to manage public services well. This is the basic element and this is the relevancy element. And you're talking about the forward. Therefore, we insist on the need for international wide service providers to be integrated in a tariff-based manner. And he says to us: "Respond to you. No, no... [[The timer laughs.]] We, the other day... just myself, as a counselor, I met with the user platform of the Front, with Congresswoman Violant Cervera. And, obviously, they have all the reason of the world to plant the one they're planting. And so much so! And the Government of Catalonia will accompany it. But we have a government of the State that simply ignores that there are these elements. And then, at the second intervention, if you want, we'll talk about Lleida-Alguaire airport. But here the great contradiction is that you are the ones who ignore the fiscal deficit in Catalonia; you are the ones who do not know that this country, every year, brings 14,000, 15,000_million euros that go in and don't come back; you are the ones who ignore this basic, structural element, to hear the public policies of the country, and you are the ones who before a premise that greatly increases the expenditure, the reversal, the social expenditure in concrete people, you are the ones who decide that no, that they vote against it. And, therefore, these are the two contradictory elements: for one band, they prevent the country from having sufficient resources to carry out the actions in which it is certain that it must agree, of territorial balance and of territorial power, and, for another, you, too, as far as we are concerned, vote against them. This is the attitude of a political formation that feels more comfortable as a refugee in mourning, as a refugee in hardship, and above all missed – and this is the sense of its intervention – of a project that puts in value an intangible that is fundamental: self-esteem, pride, tenacity, the willingness to build. I have the conviction that this is what the readers have; I have the absolute certainty that you do not have it. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.13.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Rull. There's a word from Mr. Jorge Soler.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.14.0	Well, good morning, again. I thought the counselor knew perfectly well that if anything led me to be here, in this Parliament, and leaving my profession of meth is the pride of being laid; but, well. Certainly... [[Greetings.]] Certainly, I was much more concerned, because I see you a lot more disconnected than I thought. Well, thank you for explaining to me what Lleida is. I understand that explaining to me 'hodes de Barcelona, so it gives this, I don't know, ease and frivolity; but, well. [[Greetings.]] And that's true, too, huh? I see, huh? So that now there is opposition, and that a Member of Lleida is coming, and that he is coming here to the government and explaining to him the things that Lleida is not working, it is a matter of self-esteem; I understand that – I understand that. Counselor, look, I understood well, talking about Monty Python, when my inquiry began. See? What have the novels done for Lleida? So, look, see, the claggleam, the fiscal deficit, "the fault is Madrid... "No, if the opposition doesn't do the job; it should do another thing because it has a problem of self-esteem... "Well, the legacy of previous governments... Miri, the issue is to connect or disconnect. It's not an obvious question of self-esteem, it's to be able to complain about things that don't work well, that that's why it's the opposition, and we come here and tell him what it's all about that Lleida doesn't work. I understand that there are a lot of people who don't explain this in their walks to Lleida. Well, I won't talk about this money that you did want to quote, right? , of the 4,000_million extra costs of the L9, of the 1,000_million of the Segara-Garrigues to water a 10_per_cent; with all this it could come for Lleida. In any case, well, I promised not to talk about it today – and I will not do it with corruption – and therefore, I will fulfill my promise with which I have come from Lleida. Look, for the reader to think too much about the autonomes and the generational replete. It is necessary to create a specific occupation programme in the rural area that allows this network. And, look, you didn't talk about it, but I'm going to do it: I'm going to go on a squad trip, I'm going to upgrade the Ponent Prison Center, where between other things there are more than eighty workers and a plan of work to modernize and improve the security of that center, and other security agents and serve the citizenry. That's Lleida. And administrative simplification, with particular sensitivity to rural areas, can be made effective, where the lack of resources makes it more difficult to implement a single window. And since you were talking to me, therefore, about technology and enterprise, as well as about Lleida's Technical Park. They are viable, but they need to be able to pay the debt with more years. Well, I wanted to leave the issue of salvation to the end, because there is a great deal of faith in improving the health system of the leidatans. Mirin, Lleida – this one you know so much, you see – we have a great list of waits. Yesterday, a patient who was given time for October for rheumatology. Yesterday, by October: 8 months patent. Because Lleida's working conditions aren't only complicated when there's a grip. Professionals give everything to achieve the best results, and they get them – go, if they get them – but it's not just that I continue, the counselor, asking for this level of effort. There are no substitutes to cover holidays or falls. And who's hurting all this? Professionals and patients. Ciutadans wants a health center in the Magraners' barrio open every day. Because Lleida has a decent toilet to invest in. Self-esteem, yes, counselor, but that's not the only one. What we need is money and finance because this sanitation is worthy. Citizens denounce what happens to the Tarrega CAP, a center that covers forty kilometers in diameter and where there is a very difficult problem covering the continued attention. He won't shut up, and he'll report that there are medical ambulances in the territory, many days, counselor, he doesn't fit in. We won't shut up because we don't deserve it, because we have self-esteem, because it's unworthy and because they don't have pity on the readers when they get sick. [[Widow's remorse.]] Thank you. You see that I have made a constructive inquiry, full of sensitive proposals and that will end [[remorse of the voice]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.15.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.16.0	... – thanks, deputies, thanks –, and that will end with a very extensive motion made for areas, that will cover many things that fall for Lleida. And with all the seriousness that characterises it, I will embrace – and I see that I am certain – sharing with you this song – sure everyone knows it –; it is the magnificent melody of the film with which I questioned and began my inquiry, that of Brian's Life, precisely "Always look on the bright side of life, which ends with these magnificent words: "Always look at the bright cost of life. What do you have to lose? You come from the no-res and we'll go back to the no-res. Very Honourable President [[if you feel music of fonds]] Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.17.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.18.0	... MPs and MPs: we come from the no-res [[continues to feel music of fonds]] And we'll go back to the no-res, but in case I'd like to think that the time we've been here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.19.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.20.0	...in this Parliament [[continues to feel music of fonds]] He wasn't going to take advantage of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.21.0	Congressman, do you want to hang on for a moment? What's going on? What's this sound, this music? [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.22.0	It's Monty Python's music, exactly, president. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.23.0	Home, I guess that can't be done, huh? I'm sorry, Congressman. I know it's hard, but I can't do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.24.0	President, I told you we're coming from the no-res, and we'll be back... [[Widow's remorse.]] Can I finish? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Thank you. I say we come from the non-res and we go back to the non-res; but in any case I would like to think that the time we have been here, in this Parliament, has not been to take advantage of all the possibilities to improve my territory, which I so much appreciate, the leidality. And I think we have a great margin to get it. You always look at the bright side of life, and maybe the next time you travel through the territory you'll think of this song that the president doesn't want to listen to while you're enjoying the landscape... [[Widow's remorse.]] And even you can film this magnificent song and so you'll never forget...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.25.0	Congressman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.26.0	...that there, Lleida...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.27.0	I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.28.0	...there's a brilliant territory. Don't leave us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.29.0	He's run out of time. [[Greetings. If you're feeling some new background music. Pause.]] I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.30.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mr Python, you quoted Monty Python, "Always look at the bright side of life, and, in the end, I remembered one of the phrases that you say and that seems to me to have inspired, if I may, your intervention: « Life is a piece of shit when you look at it. I'd say this, maybe, is the element. [[applause]] which inspired, in fact, his intervention. It's not with two, it's with one, it's with one, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the other, it's with the [[relays]] Hey, hey, hey, So, that's the point. If we are going to do serious things, if we are going to make an intervention, a solid and serious inquiry, it will always have to do with alternatives and explanations, which is our obligation as a government. But when there's a deputy from this chamber who literally says, "They don't have pity on them when they get sick, that's... And I answered that with terms similar to Mrs Bravo, in her intervention, talking about assumptions. That is to say, with an assertion like this, I, as a member of the Government of Catalonia, should not even be so alone to answer this second part of the intervention, because what you have done is ignominious; it is simply unacceptable; it is groguism; it is demagogic. I, therefore, want to go into the questions of foundations? There they go. I'll make parentheses. Certainly, I don't soc de Barcelona, as you say, soc de Terrassa [[the Councillor riu]] , and it's worth it, because that's all about the four provinces... But we're going to look for – let's go look for – these other elements that we explained, linked to everything that the Government of Catalonia does with..., concrete actions; that is, we're not talking about, let's say, intangible elements, we're talking about concrete action of government. You have asked us to act in the field of salvation. In the assumptions that you will vote against we speak of maintaining the aid of 725,000 euros to the Fundació Sant Hospital in the framework of the plan of viability of the Seu d'Urgell, the award of the works of the new CAP of the Seu d'Urgell, the laying-off of the extension of the CAP of the Pont de Suert, the entry into operation of a day centre of mental health of adults in Tremp, the transformation of the peripheral consultation in the centre of infantojuvenile mental health in Tremp, the transformation of the peripheral consultation in the centre of childojuvenile mental health in Seu d'Urgell. Timely, concrete actions, but they have an extraordinary impact on the lives of the people, in the day-to-day lives of the people, there are very many. In these assumptions, which you also voted against, we are talking about important investments to the road from Linyola to Bellcaire; to the road Tàrrega-Guissona; to the C-28, to the port of Bonaigua. We are talking about important activities in the field of public transport, precisely to Mollerussa; the new bus service to the Segarra; the inn in service to the distill nine public transport lines to the Segarra, which we presented just last week; the Tàrrega-Balaguer road; the variant of Balaguer. All these are the concrete actions to which we refer. Therefore, prejudices, judgments of value, all you want; but the reality is clear and it is coughing. And this government's commitment, I insist, with extraordinarily limited resources, is there. And it's in a clear and concrete way. And I ended by linking this inquiry with which the President's Counsellor has extraordinarily defended – the previous one. As far as line 9 of the subway is concerned, and as far as the tolls in the shadows are concerned. Why do we have to borrow as much as the country to face metro line 9? , or to cope with the folding of the Transversal axis? Or the folding of the Centelles-Ripoll? Or the unfolding of the Reus-Alcover? Just because we have a pessim-financing system. And before that, you have two options: not to do these actions – not to invest, not to donate public transport, not to donate security to the reels –, or to look for different payment mechanisms that allow us to hold the infrastructures that the country deserves. That's the basic theme and that's the theme. Why, are we talking about the Madrid subway? The metro in Madrid was paid with European funds. The Spanish government has prevented the Barcelona metro line 9, from being able to pay with European funds. Now we know what its alternative is: it is not line 9 of the metro, it is not the unfolding of the Transversal axis, it is not fessin' all these actions that have allowed us to guarantee territorial balance. When we have the resources that this country generates and it is worth managing on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, these territorial balance policies will not only be an objective, a desire, but a concrete, tangible, transformative and ambitious reality. We'd love to keep them at our side. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on security policies]] [[300-00132/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on security policies, presented to the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, has the word Mr. Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.32.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, the question that we are presenting from the People's Group today is given by the image and the little support that some administrations and groups want to give to the bodies and security forces. In Catalonia it seems that it is fashionable to despise the security bodies and above them everything is worth. That is why we believe it is important that from the Parliament there is a public demonstration and recognition of the work, professionalism and good name of all the police who work and have skills in Catalonia. Different unions and associations of different police officers, on 17 February, saw themselves in the obligation to make history, which I'm sure they didn't want; but they were forced to go out on the street to ask for respect and dignity. Dignity that is particularly denied to them from some municipalities and governments in which it governs the CUP or the satellites of Podemos, or where one of those parties influences the government. Let's start, for example, by talking about the Barcelona Urban Guard; a police force with a history of more than a hundred_seventy years and that since democracy has never had so little support for the city's government. For example, among other things what happens in Barcelona, they have had to endure how collectives who act outside the law, such as the « top blankets, face them and the government of the city above gives them coverage. They have never been as poorly supported institutionally as they are now with Mayor Colau. Next..., speaking of municipal police, let's talk about the police of Badalona, where the mayor of the CUP dismantled several units; for example, that of rapid intervention, which, in its day, for example, dismantled the okupa house Torre Mena and – oh, by chance – in that house there was some candidate in that okupa house on the list of the current mayor. And, yes, in many neighborhoods of the city of Badalona insecurity has returned, with the CUP in charge of the city council. And, finally with the local police, we can set the example of the case of Cerdanyola, where a mayor, also of the CUP, has the local police staff under minimums and makes a torturing use of it, denying the police presence in Bellaterra, for example. But, Mr. Counselor, let's talk about Mossos d'Esquadra. The dignity of the police begins by improving their employment situation; for example, renewing the clothing and equipment regularly; do not deny them, for example, the catering voucher, or dignify the second activity. But in addition, Mr Jané, you repeatedly say that the police must not be used politically. But it's done. I'll explain. I can admit to you that you have made some public statements defending the actions of the Mossos d'Esquadra and that the Mossos are to comply with the law. But these statements would not be necessary if the government or the party that supports them did not have so much lukewarmness with the CUP. His political negotiations, then, affect the image of the Catalan Police. Examples: We started with the Taser commission, a transfer to the CUP that served for six months to make the anti-systems speak and leave the image of the Mossos d'Esquadra in a bad place. Then you take Mr. David Fernàndez to the Police School to train police officers. That's laughing at the police's face. What does Mr. Fernàndez know about mediation? For example, the statements he made about the Can Vies riots, is that the example to follow? First they took him as an expert to the Taser commission; then to the Police School. Next thing, what will it be? , put it next to you to receive the new police promotions? Then the CUP presents a motion whose objective was to leave the police tied up with their feet and hands; it leaves them with little professionals and you go and negotiate that motion. What they had to do was not negotiate the, vote against directly, because the dignity of the Catalan Police cannot have that price. That's right, and in the last Commission on the Interior Junts pel Yes, it presents a motion for a resolution that mixes freedom of the press with the powers of the police, and just as it was presented – and it was nothing more than a face-to-face washing before the CUP and some union – it seemed that they were asking for forgiveness for how the police were acting with the press; once again, leaving the Catalonia Police in a bad place. And let's have us talk about Rubi, Mr. Counselor. What happened in Rubi? We have a detainee to run over a mosso d'ésquadra, drags him 15 meters, in detention he resists the authority, and, before signing the police minute, the detainee is released. While, yes, a police officer was several days admitted very seriously. And I ask him: what happened to get that person released without a person before the judge? What happened in order for the Mossos to manifest themselves by what they understand to be a police disapproval? What happened – tell us, Mr. Counsellor – if the elder, the greater future of the Mossos, intervened for that person to be released? Do you do that with all the detainees in Catalonia every day? There have been no explanations, will you give them today, Mr. Counselor? Will you tell us what happened in Rubi? Another political use of what you do is double standards in opening sanctioning files. You decide to sanction a police officer because you understand that he disrespected the President of the Generalitat on his social networks, when she has never manifested herself on his social network as mosso d'ésquadra. It is supposed to be a topic that is carried discreetly by internal affairs; so discreetly that it comes out two days – not one: two days – on the cover of the Girona Diari. Who leaked that information? Are you going to investigate him? That's right, and on the other hand we have the representative of Mossos per la Independência, who does identify himself as a police officer on social networks, uses the image of Mossos for his independence claims, allows the luxury of seriously insulting the People's Party and its representatives, to say nice things like Spain is terminal cancer, and you sit around looking the other way. I mean, if you're mosso and you pronounce yourself, you have to be in favor of the process; if you do otherwise, you're out. That is to use and condition the police of Catalonia politically. But one of the worst examples – and I say it to you with respect, Mr. Counsellor – was you. This January, two rural agents were killed with a hunting rifle. And with two dead on top of the table you can think of nothing other than starting to claim competence by scorning the work of the Civil Guard. And the first thing anyone can say, hearing their statements, is that what happened was partly the responsibility of the Civil Guard. When the killer, Mr. Counselor, is one: the one who shot; no one else. His attitude was irresponsible, populist and indecent. Taking advantage of this misfortune to say what he said is a lack of respect for the memory of the murdered rural agents and their families, and a lack of respect for the Squadron Mosses themselves and the Civil Guard, trying to confront the two security forces before public opinion. Counselor, the anti-systems that condition the governments of the Generalitat and some municipalities in Catalonia are taking their particular revenge against the security forces thanks to the parties that have governmental responsibilities and allow them to do so. The police in Catalonia are the guarantors that we can live in freedom and exercise our democratic rights safely. They do not give in to any more petitions or actions than they seek to limit the functions and damage the image of our police. Counselor, I ask you once again: no more political concessions at the expense of the good name of the Catalan Police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.33.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. The word has Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.34.0	Madam President, Councillor, Members of Parliament... I am disappointed, Mr Villagrasa; I am disappointed for what I have listened to. And I am so surprised to hear from a Member of Parliament what you have come to say, I find so far removed from the seriousness of applying to the Member representing a group which, moreover, has responsibilities of government at the level of the State, that, in truth, the disappointment of what you have said and which is reflected in this sessional diary is very important on the part of the Councillor of Interior of the Government of Catalonia. I'll tell you a lot of things. Miri, as for the local police, each assembly has its municipal autonomy, but, believe me, the Government of Catalonia does not escape, in any case, the coordination task also of the local police, but obviously respecting the command that each police has the respect of the government. So now I'm not going to talk about the Barcelona Urban Guard or the Badalona Police, or other municipalities that you brought me here. I will only tell you one thing: we have exchanged messages with the Mayor of Barcelona, this very week, they have come up with an action – which you do not talk about – remarkable, exemplary, of the Mossos d'Esquadra and of the Urban Guard of Barcelona, with the episode of the thief of a stop truck. This does deserve to be put in value. And the information exchange between the same assembly and the Government of Catalonia. I am still waiting for a call from the Minister of the Interior to respect, who did indeed make a tweet informing of an action that was of the Mossos and the Urban Guard, but he did not even answer the call of the Councillor of Interior, nor did he answer the messages of the Councillor of Interior, nor did he reply to the tricks that directly to his depatx, also by means of the respective heads of cabinet and by means of messages, carried out many days ago, concretely since the 7th of February, stop the arrest in Badalona of two Moroccans accused of adopting and capturing Gihadist. I think we can share, the Government of Catalonia and the Government of the State, when there is an arrest of Badalona..., I think it is a good thing that we can exchange police information that we also have. And I'm still waiting for the answer today – I'm still waiting for the answer today. So, what do I want to say, Mr. Villagrasa? I mean, you don't come here to give lessons, and you don't come here to take part in demonstrations, because you're oblivious of aspects in which someone could show up, and you're standing at the front in fears that, for what makes Mossos d'Esquadra, in the last Consell de la Policia, in a concrete case of compensation, it was very and very clear before everyone– before everyone– as the person who was theoretically harmed and who was part of the poster, who claimed– that he claimed–, therefore, to have the need to be manifested..., to me I was very sorry that you chose Barcelona precisely and chose precisely against Mossos d'Esquadradrama and against the Urban Guard, in a demonstration that I repeated, I believe, however, that you always did not answer the question, but that some of the author, but rather of the author's authority, in a demonstration that, rather than the author's argument that, in this case, you did not always ask the author's... Political negotiations, not one, huh? We haven't even done a political negotiation on the Squad's Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra. The Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra is not in political negotiation on the part of the Councillor d'Interior, nor on the part of the Government of Catalonia, nor on the part of its President or Vice President. Therefore, let us not say: "They are putting them in the realm of negotiation. And the issue..., you retain even all the autonomy of this Parliament, which decided freely and for the most part – and voted to do so – create a commission because it can regulate the use of these names « Taser guns, these driving devices. Is it up to you that this Parliament decides, before adopting a measure, that it can analyse for the Members, contrast with experts and finally reach conclusions, that they are not unanimous but that they have authorized their use under certain conditions and with certain guarantees, incorporating all of them a camera that will allow you to control whether or not a good use is done? This is what the Council of Europe asks us to do before approving these devices. He asks us United Nations, which before he gets there is done... And if this commission is done and comes to some conclusions and they're done buying, you see here and there's a complaint that Parliament is working on what it's decided to work through a working group? I can't hear him out of the way either. On the subject of Rubí. You've simplified the ruby theme a lot. The police director will be here on March 1st, next week, to explain it to the commission. Therefore – here is your president, Mr. Matías Alonso – there will be the debate. But don't go so fast about what happened to Ruby. Let's explain what happened to Rubí – the director of the police will explain it well. Let's explain that there was a city within his perch and his property, and there came in two moves, that did his work – that did his work – from country to country. They asked that gentleman, who was in the car and in the car, who was horrified; he got confused, he thought they weren't cops. And from that evil came after many things that are already said in court. But let's explain it all, because as it explains it, it doesn't seem that the origin is in a person's private parchment, that two agents who do their job and who do it with responsibility..., that two country agents come in and that gentleman gets spooked, he gets confused and starts a runaway thinking he was the object of an attack or possible attack. This, this evil, which later brought no others, will all be praised to the Commission of the Interior. But let's explain everything. And then that you see here and defend a Corporal of the Squad Coast who insulted the President of the Generality. And you say why he didn't do it as a service, that's not good? Are you telling me this? A corporal of the body cannot insult, lie, slander the president of Catalonia, who is the most responsible of the Cos de Mossos, the most operative. I said the law as a police officer. The highest command of the body is the president of Catalonia, and all the moves, as in all the police, have a respect for their superiors. Because, if not, a police officer does not work, Mr. Villagrasa; that should be known to you. [[Greetings.]] And how, if not, doesn't a cop work and this you should know, how can you come here to defend me...? Miri, I don't read what this corporal wrote to the cartels because it embarrasses me, because as an Interior Counselor, it embarrasses me to reproduce it here. Then I'll let you read it – then I'll let you read it. But I'm ashamed, I'm sorry. And, therefore, that an expedient is opened in this case..., he is at the division of Afers Internals and will obviously be under jurisdictional control, like everything the Administration of Catalonia does – like everything else. And if you don't look like the instruction, the resolution dictated by the division of Afers Internals, you go to the courts, and the vagina defends this kind of comment that hurts this police and all of us. And what shame, Mr. Villagrasa: that I have offended the memory of dead rural agents? Do you look me in the face? Are you going with the rural agents? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I've defended it all the time... And, I repeat, they asked me a question on a radio show. And it's true, we've always claimed this kind of competition. And with what they asked me, I said. But as it was wrong to interpret my words, I called the government delegate to Catalonia to explain him there to tell him that if he wanted any public explanation. And we stayed that didn't fit. But to every Civil Guard command I've found myself at the joints of security, I've said so. Because, in any case, I do not want, nor will I do, to criticize the Civil Guard in its competitions that it now has in the field of arms control in Catalonia. I do not criticize them or criticize them, which I made clear, their activity at the demarcation of Lleida. So, if he heard it like that, I now publicly reaffirm it: I don't criticize it, I don't criticize it; on the contrary, I thank them for the pocket they make. This has nothing to do with saying that we have always defended that this competition should have the Squad's Mosses, let's not mess it up. I do not criticise in any case the manner in which it was exercised. If it has been interpreted this way, I pray that it is rectified, because I... in no case – in no case – was my will, this. And I've shown it to as many as I've been asked and I've done the sticky tricks to say it. So neither does it matter to me that today I come here and tell me that I have offended... Miri, that the head of the rural agents comes and you tell him before him that the Councillor of Interior has offended the memory of the rural agents who were murdered in Aspa, because it is not true, because I went there from the first moment, because I was interested in them and what I had gone through, because I gave my face. And that I may have been wrong in a demonstration? Well, I admit it. But don't tell me I've offended the memory of the rural agents who were murdered, the servants of Catalonia, the servants of the government, the servants of the agricultural council of this government and a big pocket they make for the country. And this counselor will never offer them..., or offend them in his memory; on the contrary: we dignify them, gather them and teach them in whatever is necessary. Therefore, I was very sorry for your intervention, I found it very low parliamentary level. To come here, with four points that pass... I'll be happy... I know, who passes all this, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.35.0	Counselor, I know very hard, but it has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.36.0	I'm done. Mr. Villagrasa, come – forgive me – with arguments, do not come with slanders, do not come with falsehoods and do not offend me. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.38.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, I'm telling you, I'm looking him in the face and I'm looking him in the eyes. Yes, you have disrespected the Civil Guard and the Mossos d'Esquadra when you said what you said with two rural agents dead on the table. And if he was wrong, he must have apologized at the time, and he didn't. And then, I don't defend or stop defending anyone, what I'm saying is the double standard you have to open files to people. If this person has made a mistake, he will have to issue it, but this gentleman to whom you laugh thanks, that of Mossos for Independence, does not stop insulting the People's Party and its representatives, and you have done nothing at the moment. I mean – I told you before – if you're in favor of the process, it's all right; if you're not, you're out. And yes, yes, there are debates that you allow them to hold, which seems, therefore, nothing happens. Here we are constantly talking about the implementation of the Istanbul protocol. Look, this is where the Istanbul Protocol is applied, it is applied on its own initiative. And we are constantly talking and questioning how Mossos d'Esquadra acts and how prison officials act. And the other day he went on a commission. Well, of course, they comply with the law! Of course, they comply with the Istanbul protocol! That's why it's called "Istanbul", it's not called "Barcelona Protocol" or "Madrid Protocol". It is called the Istanbul protocol for something, and here it is fulfilled. That is true: the debate is opened and the debate is marred and left in question how the Mossos act and how prison officials act, and it continues to be maintained. And, yes, a report is made: the report on torture. In democracy there is no torture, to see if the syndicate already knows. There may be excesses. And if there are excesses and someone makes some kind of crime plan, what he has to do is go to court and not question how a police officer acts or how a prison officer acts. And there is constant doubt in every committee. I, Mr. Counselor, am very disappointed, too, because the police are. And I'm not told by a union – and I'm not told by a union. I talk to all the unions. And in 80 or 90_per_cent of claims all match– all match. And they are disappointed with how they are treated, and they are sometimes disappointed with the treatment they have on the part of the government – I am no longer talking about you, on the part of the government – because there are political transfers at the expense of the image of the Mossos d'Esquadra, transfers with the anti-systems. I, from Rubi, will wait for the commission, because there are rumors, there are many rumors. There's been a lot of rumors about who the detainee was. A rumor – a rumor, huh? – in which it was said that the person who was released was a person who was related to a company that gave logistical and IT support and support to 9-N. It's a rumor that runs. I don't believe it, but I'll leave it here. Look, Mr. Counsellor, what is needed is more determination to defend the bodies and security forces, all those in Catalonia, because what is happening with them in Catalonia does not happen in the rest of Spain. And if you have problems with the CUP, we don't, neither do the police. The police did, it is true, because when they went out to manifest themselves, they did it to ask for something very concrete, which was dignity and respect – dignity and respect – and precisely the great claim of that manifestation... There could be other banners, but the great claim was respect, which they understood that there were administrations that did not give it to them for assignments and interventions of the anti-system. Therefore, I repeat to you again: if you have problems with the CUP, it is not our problem, nor that of the mossos. Therefore, more respect and dignity for the work of the police, of all those who work in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.39.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. The word has the counselor Jordi Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.40.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Villagrasa, we have a different concept of what it is to respect police bodies – it's quite different. Because with the months I have been carrying as a counselor I have always tried, since the first day, to listen to them and to respect them, without forgetting in any case the command that surrounds us to the department; but to respect their competitions, to listen to them and to congratulate them constantly. Also, when something doesn't work well, open the corresponding disciplinary dispatchers, who hurt us, against agents of the body. After all, he passed to Tarragona, in front of a corporal, who, looking at the rooms of the police station, seemed to us to have a deal suitable for a woman in detention. And without anyone saying, the dispatching correspondent was opened, and also to his two inferiors, who, see, they didn't say anything. Therefore, the maximum level of demand, respects the maximum of its way of working, and the way of working that can be nothing other than a democratic police in a democratic country. And respect, I have everything, all the security forces and things that act in Catalonia. I've said it publicly. In the case of what you said, I said it publicly. In local security gatherings, which there were a lot of people, I said it in public, and I said it to the government delegate in Catalonia. And, therefore, I did what I had to do as a counselor. I'll tell you more. Respect, you know what, Mr. Villagrasa? Ask the Interior Councillor when he asks to make a safety board to give the Mossos those skills that the State recognizes them and they still don't have. That's respect. I don't know what you mean to respect, but I... don't answer the Councillor of the Interior when he asks a board of security to complete Article 164, which was voted in the General Courts, and that there was not a comma for the Constitutional Court, which says that the Mossos d'Esquadra must take part – they can't, they must take part – in the international arena in which the State participates, and they don't sign up to make a board of security in order to comply with these skills that have the moves... That's right, you, the call for answer. Where's the safety board, Mr. Villagrasa? Where are you? Why don't you answer from the Ministry of the Interior to our petitions? Why don't they answer the tricks? Is that respect? I the concept of respecting the difference, not just based on the..., of course, you know how many performances the Mosses do in a year, don't you? In fan 674.155 the Darrer any, it means 77 every hour. Obviously, there will always be something, at the Mossos and at any police thing, that the enclosure will not be god's; we admit it. But we are aware that 77 performances every hour, twenty-four hours of the day for one year, is an important volume of work in the service of the citizenry, of its security. And all the indicators tell us that they have a good level of security, the citizens of Catalonia, that they understand it that way, and that their opinion of the police bodies is good. We don't mess it up with interrogations like this, low-level. We don't mess with this kind of interrogation, because what they do is give an image outside that we don't deserve each other. I stopped giving this fact that since the 7th of February I want to talk to the minister and he hasn't answered my call yet; he kept me. Finally, I commented to the delegate of the Government, who I coincided with him on the sale, celebrating the Sant Raimon of Penyafort here in Barcelona. And I said to him, "Let the minister not call. And he says to me, "Give me twenty-four hours, that this will be solved. Must be a bad thing. Well, it's a mistake, but the days went by. And I had to share sensitive police information with Badalona's arrests, and I still couldn't do it. Do you think that's normal? Do you think this shows a good dial climate, which is all for me? Because if anything interests me, it's that in the realm of security we understand each other. We can't let you hear us. But with questions like this one of you, today, it goes away from a will, which for our part is all, to hear together in terms of security. Because we need it as a country, because no one will forgive us, and because I have a very high responsibility to the insider, I don't think it's a bad thing looking for it and bulging in aspects that are particularly painful, because they are aspects that bind populism and not a serious policy for the security of the country, for the defense, in the end, of its citizens, who want a climate of coexistence, freedom, security, that our police bodies assure them. All the more, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.41.0	Thank you, Counselor. Mr. Fachin, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.42.0	Because a member of the People's Party goes to the faristol and says lies, and I wanted to put on the table data explaining that this gentleman says lies in a parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.43.0	See, one thing, you ask me the word for contradictions, but I... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I own it for 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.44.0	Well... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.45.0	Contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.46.0	...contradictions, demand for contradictions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.47.0	He alluded..., spoke of his group; therefore, he can speak thirty_seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.48.0	The leader of the People's Party has said two lies. That Istanbul protocol works perfectly. And an organ dependent on this Parliament, which is the heavy trade union, has repeatedly explained that Istanbul's protocol is the great unknown of Catalan and Spanish society. I read it and I didn't lie. Second, the Strasburg Court of Human Rights condemns Spain for not investigating torture. This gentleman came here and said that there is no such thing. Please, don't lie.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.49.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.50.0	First of all, for a point of order, in the sense that you have opened today the appeal that in the questions that are formulated between parliamentary groups and the Government can ask the word for allusions and contradictions, something unpublished until today. That's never happened before. Therefore, we understand that this is the previous work, and therefore from now on we will feel totally free and demand to you that the same deal that you have given to the Catalonian Group Yes, it is the gift to the rest of the groups, giving the word for contradictions and allusions, even though there are still interpellations. And it follows, for allusions, obviously, from Mr Dante Fachin, to my parliamentary group. [[The president gives the word to Santi Rodríguez and Serra.]] All right. So, regret that the concept of the policy of Mr. Albano Dante Fachin is so uniform and so little plural that you think only his opinion and his vision, and also those who laugh at my side, even though they don't feel, is the only possible. Deeply regret it. Thank you. [[Greetings. Benet Salellas and Vilar ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.51.0	Mr. Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.52.0	He asks for the word for obvious allusions and, if I may, and gives me this turn, I will explain the exceptionality of this turn which he asks for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.53.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.54.0	Thank you, President. How it seems that the People's Parliamentary Group confounds the control session to the Government with the control session to the CUP, and that yesterday it passed on to the question made by the Vice-President of the Government, in which it was attempted to build a menu of cohesion between CUP and violence, which was later supplemented, that intervention yesterday, with an inquiry on security to the Councillor of the Interior in which the first intervention was practically carried out, the People's Group, speaking only of the CUP and its assemblies, would like to make three brief points on this issue. In the first place, about our gatherings. We know it makes them very angry, precisely because we have much more mayors and much more governors than the PP had. Secondly, about the Taser group, and the Councillor has already said, it is obviously a democratic issue that a parliament can discuss and value everything you consider, and that members of this Parliament can go to the Police School when they are invited and whenever they consider it. And, therefore, let me make it clear and ask the Bureau of this Parliament in this sense: that we will not stand by our arms and remain silent against those who annoy us that we exist, the annoy us that we are in this Parliament, and who try for life absolutely undemocratic to criminalise us, stigmatize us and expel us, precisely because they have not been able to win us at the polls. All right, all right, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.55.0	Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.56.0	For allusions, contradictions, as you wish, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.57.0	No, for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.58.0	Okay. First, tell Mr de Catalunya Yes that it is Pot..., that the Istanbul protocol is unknown by society does not mean that it is not applied and that it is respected. And if you know of any particular cases that fail you go to court, and if you don't, don't keep accusations hidden here about something that officials don't do. And it's true – and it's true – what I was saying in the end, with the interventions of the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot that gives me the reason. Here there are parties that are interested in leaving in bad place the good name of the Mossos d'Esquadra. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.59.0	Article 85, "Allusions", says: "The President – he must feminize, but the President says – "when he considers that a Member or a parliamentary group or a political formation has been directly involved in an intervention, at the request of these may grant them the word, for a period not exceeding three minutes, because, without entering the substance of the matter under discussion, they strictly answer the reference; if they go beyond these limits, the President must withdraw the word. Therefore, "in an intervention, do not say which one. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Keep going. [[Asking the Government about the State's failings in the execution of presumptive works]] [[300-00133/11]] The next item is the question to the government about the state's incomplements in the execution of presupposed works; presented by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.60.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, counselor... Well, I, above all, Counsellor Rull, initially, when I was preparing this inquiry, went to talk about the lack of implementation of investments and jobs in my region, at Baix Llobregat; but unfortunately what passes to Baix Llobregat passes to all of Catalonia, and that is what I will really end up questioning. But I'm going to start by making some of the most outstanding works in my region, starting with the A-2 link to the AP-7, in Castellbisbal; some of the works today, which started in 2006, ended in the year 2010, ended again in the year 2015..., should have ended – I'm sorry – in 2015, but they didn't start again until just that same year 2015. Now they're stuck and they don't know when they'll start again. The Vallirana variant, one of the most claimed in our region, started in 2004, which has been put to rest several times and has also been promised to end in 2017, the year we are in, and with much luck is expected to end in 2019. The same with the Litoral round, the link between the Litoral round and the C-32, started in 2009. Expected duration: two years. They've stopped 2010, they've stopped until 2014, they've started..., they've stopped again, they've started again 2015. The last announced date of completion was this year 2017, and, unfortunately, they are, like the rest, up to date. The same about the road accesses to the port of Barcelona, a very important investment for the competitiveness of the port of our country, a promise by the State to the enterprises that they invest in the port of Barcelona, and that they started just the year that theoretically should have ended, the year 2015. And, in addition, at the rate they were expected to be over by 2020 with much luck. The same with the bus-way to the B-23, designed for the Generality and that the State has not explained nor so much as what timetable there is expected to be. And, above all, the last great announcement of the Minister of Development to our region: the railway access to the Prat airport to connect the T-1 and the T-2 from the Prat station; a work that was awarded to May 2010 and that did not begin until 2015, and that today is only executed until 23_per_cent. This is the great promise of the State's investment in our country: they come to promise something that should have started in 2010, something that is very grateful. I repeat: this is just a small part of what happens to our region, the Baix Llobregat. All this lack of reversal generates accidents, more contamination, constant circulatory col·lapse, misuse of existing infrastructures, internal circulation col·lapse in many populations, such as my own, Molins de Rei. But, I repeat, what's going on in Baix Llobregat is a small part of what's going on in all of Catalonia, and then I'll go over some of the most scandalous points, but I won't be able to do everything, because it would be very long and I think we'd still be here tomorrow. The sum of everything folded is an authentic misconception, it's a full-fledged hairpin, and we could say, at all events, that it's a scam; a scam because what Catalans pay doesn't invert in our country, and it generates a loss of jobs and a loss of economic opportunities and competitiveness that is equivalent to a spoil. I'll give you some rough figures to explain it. Catalonia represents more or less the 18,9_per_cent, 19_per_cent, of the GDP of the State, and, in change, the State repeatedly has a medium of reversal of around 9, 9, 9,5_per_cent of forecast of annual investments in assumptions to our country; then, badly, it can execute between 60, 70 or 45, depending on the year. This has direct repercussions on the environment, on the loss of jobs, and especially on the loss of competitiveness in our businesses. Annually, what you do not expect to reverse the state in Catalonia, for the GDP differential with which it should invest, represents eight thousand jobs lost the year. And of which it assumes it does not invert represents around set_mil, of lost year's work places. Therefore, every year the State generates losses of fifteen thousand places of work in our country. And another example: the famous Pla d'inversions en infrastructures in Rodalies 2008-2015, the famous 4,000_million euros, of which only 13_per_cent has been invested. Therefore, the remaining 3,461 million would have generated, precisely the cruelest years of the economic crisis, some forty-five thousand jobs. I repeat: this is a spoli. But it is that, in addition, this lack of investment in infrastructure also results in a lack of investment on the part of companies, which could also give many examples of my region. But now I will marry him, for example, one that has affected, and is well known, the port of Tarragona: as the company Daimler did not invest justly in the port of Tarragona, and would have generated many places of work, due to the lack of European size to reach this port. Well, that also affects the day-to-day lives of our country's people. And I would like, counselor, to explain to us what you think and how are some of these investments so important in our country, from the Mediterranean Corridor, that we already talked about yesterday, but if you want to comment on something more... How is, for example, the unfolding of the 3rd line of Rodalies between Barcelona and Vic? , which is claimed only from the 1980s and which is still to be done. What do you know about the 3,700_million pending Rodalies Investment Plan we've been talking about before? Will they ever invest or have they stayed on paper mules? Have they disappeared? Or, as the Government of the State explains to you, that of the Priority Action Plan of Rodalies agreed and assumed for the year 2014 to 2016, which provided for a reversal of 306_million euros for urgent actions, these urgent actions have only been reversed by 6_per_cent, 18_million euros? Let us keep in mind: this is so hard – so hard, this last point – that, to all intents and purposes, the Government of Catalonia has brought Adif to the National Audience. And it doesn't surprise me, because Adif in Catalonia only executes 2.5_percent of all the works he does to the whole Spanish State. And the same could be said of AENA, which makes only 10_percent of the Spanish state's investments, when we represent 18_percent of GDP; but it is that in flights and passengers we represent much more. And effects that affect the day-to-day and people's buttocks. How are the money that the State should provide to help finance public transport in Catalonia? It's 132 million euros a year we don't have. How does it affect, too – and this we talked about to the last Committee of Territories – the lack of investment in order not to have adapted trains? And above all, counselor, how are two major investments needed so that there are no more deaths in our country? How is the burial in Sant Feliu de Llobregat and how is the burial in Montcada and Reixac, where there are still steps at the level in the city? Or very important road infrastructures, such as the N-230 from Lleida to Vielha, the maintenance of the A-2 Barcelona-Lleida, the unfolding of the national II Tordera-França – the calculation is that they trigaran seventy years, at the rhythm they carry, to finish it, this unfolding–, and etcetera; the national 240; the unfolding of the national 340 between the Lands of the Ebro and Tarragona, which also generates so many accidents; the national II and the eix Pirinenc, etcetera. I could still be a lot more quiet. Or we could talk, for example, about ACA or non-inversion, as the rest of the State does in internal conches. In conclusion, Counsellor Rull, the State is under-inverted in our country, and it would seem that it is uninvested in Catalonia. You see all these data and the state of disinvestment of the State in Catalonia, it is clear that Spain is cheating on us, because we do not ask them to donate or do something that is not ours, nor are we asking for any favor, simply what we ask is that the people of Catalonia..., are inverted to what we actually pay. Now what happens is that the money goes and doesn't come back. We simply ask this for a very logical thing: we want to have better services, we want to have better infrastructure and to continue to feel competitive so that we can continue to generate wealth and to maintain and improve our welfare state, a very simple thing. Finally, at the international level they see this lack of reversal as the main symptom that the Spanish State believes in the possibility of the process towards independence, because it is very clear that if it no longer invests in a territory, it is because they must think that it will no longer belong to them in the near future. Counselor Rull, to you, that it is surely the most important to deal with the incompliments of the State – with incomplete projects, with phantom inversions, with constant delays and generalizations, repeatedly incomplete assumptions, documents and promises that are paper mullat – and that also met with the new minister, Mr De la Serna, I ask you some final questions: how does the meeting with the new minister De la Serna value, where the main demands were conveyed to you, at the last general policy debate, on infrastructure, which are historical claims of our country, among which the transposition of the railway network and the network of Spanish incumbents to Catalonia, to the General? What's it worth? And the transfer of ownership of Catalan airports? , also one of the oldest demands of our country. And seeing what he knows, as a counselor, of the state's incompliments and meeting it that he maintained, I repeat, with the minister, how he values the siren songs of the false operation Dialeg that the state government wants to create? And finally, counselor, do you deserve any credibility from the state's promises? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.61.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Couples. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.62.0	Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Congressman, who is now going to fit into your escó and is going through the pass... [[Pause.]] Now, we've got him here. Your last question is worth a monosil·lábica answer. She said: "Do you give any credibility to this Dialeg operation? Monosilábica answer: "No. We don't see that you have resorted to it – we don't see it. Although the attitude is apparently good, and with this I want to make an entrance that may be a little bold. Our department, the Department of Territories and Sustainability, has two interlocutors in Madrid: it has the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Agriculture and Environment. To the Ministry of Development, Íñigo de la Serna, and to the Ministry of Agriculture, Minister Tejerina. I think it is relevant to put in value that there is an abysmal difference between the attitude, the tarann, of some and others. Serna and his team, tanmate, when the tricks, they pose on the phone. Tejerina is unstoppable; what happens to the Ministry of Environment is unheard of, it's surprising, it's practically impossible to get in at the top of the dialog, or on the peremptory, immediately: there is no one in the other band of the telephone wire – no one. And for that reason, I want to put it in value. When Minister Íñigo de la Serna came, we did an exercise that I think was interesting: we compared together. And, therefore, what we said to the inside, we also said to the outside, in front of the communication media. And, therefore, that complaint of non-compliance, I transferred it to the minister, but we also did it in front of the communication media. With the Ministry of Environment it would be impossible – impossible. I make parentheses in parentheses. Here the Ciutadans Group and the PP Group constantly ask us to participate in sectoral commissions, sectoral conferences. I participated in one, from the Ministry of Environment – to one. In that committee we were six autonomous communities; I went there because I had a conference in Madrid and I took advantage of it – six autonomous communities. Of these six autonomous communities, there was no PP: there were the four of the ancient Crown of Aragó, I don't know whether it's random or not– Aragó, Catalunya, the islands and the Valencia Country – there was Castella - the Manxa and there was Asturias. I decided that this would be the only and last meeting of the intersectoral conference to which he would go, because he had even an offensive point – an offensive point. Therefore, I close this parenthesis in the first parenthesis. I want to put in value that the attitude is there; attitude that is then not translated into concrete facts, because the incompliments are obvious. Fixi's: you have begun this inquiry referring to the visit made by the Vice President of the Spanish Government to the Minister of Development. Whenever they come to Catalonia they only visit a play. Says: "Ostres, they must have a special estimate, to this work they visit, which is the launcher at terminal 1 of the airport of Barcelona. No, no, it's pure pragmatism; it's to say, they only visit this work because it's the only work that at this point in time the Ministry of Development is doing something obvious, that there is actually an explanatory act. And also announce a year late, as at least. Because they say to us: "We will finish the tunnel, but they still don't talk to us about architecture or other elements. This is the theme, and it seems to me that this is very graphic: they visit this work because it is of the few that they can display, that they can put on the table. There is a concept, which the deputy Bel knows and has worked very intensively, which is the internal return fee: see who are those infrastructures that have a higher level of economic, social and environmental return. About the airport of Barcelona, the minister and the vice president went... Darrer parentheses: without accepting any question; plasma also translated into helmets and armours: they did not accept any question. I'm closing the parenthesis. Very close to the airport, in its region, there are other actions in which it is reflected that there is no sign of a voluntary priority. There's one that sometimes goes very unnoticed, but I think it's probably some of the sharpest cases of these state failures: maybe it's the work that has a higher return rate, which is the Castellbisbal Bridge, which connects the A-2 to the B-30/AP-7. At these times, the people– and before we spoke of Lleida – who down from Lleida has, to access the B-30, let's say, two options, basically: the first is to continue for the A-2, go to Molins de Rei, cross the river and take a turn, or the other, pay the Martorell toll. That bridge, the bridge skeleton, has been there for many years. Jo, if you'll allow me to frivolize for a moment, I think in certain cases they've hired extras to get back on the bridge and see that there's something going on. We don't have a date yet. At the B-40, on the tram between Olesa and Viladecavalls, it is working – it is true – in the tunnel, but it is not working in Viladecavalls. This could end perfectly in the year 2018, if there was political will. Or the other action to which it refers, the connection between the C-32 and the Belt of the Litoral. The basic theme is: 1, lack of priority; 2, obvious incompliments respect what they have undertaken to do. And the title of his inquiry was "incompliments with what is already presupposed, and here we see, and this is credible and explained by the Ministry of Hisenda, that there is an extraordinary gap between what is presupposed and what is being carried out, while to the Autonomous Community of Madrid, whether by chance or not, this gap is produced at the top: in certain exercises presuppostari to the Community of Madrid it has been carried out more than what was presupposed. And not here, and, therefore, we're at some very low levels of non-compliance. Adif, last year: 26_per_cent of actual execution on what was assumed. That's the problem and that's the background problem. Therefore, he spoke of priority: there was no prioritization, it is not clear which are those actions that should be put in the first order..., Mediterranean Corridor, the unfolding of the Vandellòs-Tarragona, or the theme of the AP-7 connection with A-2, or the theme of the B-40, or the theme of this connection between the rounds, or the road and rail accesses to the airport. That's the problem. But the third theme is the way it ends. We are a government, the Government of Catalonia, and you sometimes put the word to us, legitimately, that we cannot execute everything that would please us, nor can we keep certain rhythms compromised by presuppositional difficulties. And we can empathize and we can hear that there are certain times when the subject is complicated, but then explanations have to be given. What cannot be seen is invisibility, and the clearest case – and I have had the opportunity to visit it with the mayor of Sant Boi and other mayors of the surrounding area – is when the works are closed to the connection between the belt of the Litoral and the C-32 and no one explains it – no one explains it – do not explain it to the mayors, that they have a problem of first order mobility. Therefore, can it be legitimate in certain cases, when there are difficulties, to make a rethink of the calendars? It can be legitimate, but it has to be explained and it has to be given alternatives, and it has to be given face. That's the point. When we spoke yesterday about the Mediterranean Corridor we said that the third thread between Castellbisbal and Tarragona was relaxed. There's no point, and I use this phrase again that I've used in the previous inquiry – it's an offence that the Government of Catalonia is aware of it through the Official Butllet of the State: we know that a part of this action is relaxed because we read it to the BOE, because there's no one to explain it to us, no one to tell us. And, therefore, this is the theme of the fund. And I'm done with some of the elements. When we put on the table the incompliments in railway matters, we put on the table Montcada, Sant Feliu and the Hospitallet, because we are not asking for things that appear again, but we are asking for something so basic that those formal commitments, credible as formal, that the General Administration of the State has acquired with the various governments is complete. That's the theme of the fund. And last thought, and that's very relevant as you have focused on it: we're talking about jobs, we're talking about wealth, we're talking about prosperity, and that's very clear in rail access to the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona. Do you know the amount of jobs that this country is losing for infinity? There are companies that would be in a position to invest in it but do not invest in it because they do not have certain or predictable calendars. This is the battle that we are waging. So, it's not about denouncing, but it's about donating alternatives. And we have a very clear alternative: the alternative in autonomous terms is to be permanently above it, but in terms of national transition it is that these infrastructures we want to manage ourselves in order to be able to give answers to the people of this country now and here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Joan Ramon Casals. [[Pause.]] I don't want to use the word. Okay. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into actions to prepare for a possible secession]] [[302-0010/11]] So, let's get to the next point of the order of the day. The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on action to prepare for a possible secession presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, Mr. Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.64.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... I can't say hello to any of the government at this time, but they'll probably join us at some point. In the debate on the question of trust, President Puigdemont made known to us all that "at the end of June 2017," he said, "we would be prepared to be able to disconnect from the Spanish State with full guarantees, and, if possible, to be able to do so with mutual agreement with the State and following the legally provided procedures. From this "if possible we must not deduce that he is also prepared for this agreement if it is not possible. The president also said that "it is working, until the last detail, not only the necessary standard texts – laws, decrees, decrees – but also other more concrete and operational measures, such as now all that affects the human resources, material and assumptions necessary so that the new state, at the time of the disconnection, can effectively exercise the nine functions that it will have to assume. And that was working, too, "with special care and dedication, in the protocols of the actions that will need to take place in especially sensitive areas on the day of disconnection, and the following days and weeks. Finally, he said that "we are talking about several hundred concrete measures – material documents and actions – that affect all areas: from security to communication, from external health to the administration of justice, international recognition of the new state, etc. He followed the president, but he himself concluded that the list would be very long. We can agree, I suppose, that it is a matter of all transcendent and all questions of undeniable public interest, and therefore also of undeniable interest to this chamber, to the Parliament of Catalonia. It is for this reason that we, the President himself, have failed to know all these preparations in detail, all this immaterial task which the President himself announced to us that he was not only thinking of taking charge of the fact that it was already taking place, we are now in the form of a need for the Government of the Government of Catalonia to make available to the Parliament all the information which it had in respect of the eventuality of a secession of Catalonia to respect the rest of Spain, and that all the preparatory acts, its execution, the possible consequences in any way and also all the contingency plans, protocols, all those forecasts, in the end, that the Government has been developing, as the President himself announced in the debate on this matter. We also ask for legal texts or drafts in preparation by the government that are connected with a possible secession of Catalonia respecting the rest of Spain, including this law that has fought as legal transitory and that seems to have been a text already worked and that has certainly a notable interest for everything that is centering the government's performance during this legislature. We could also include here this law of urban leases that Constellera Borràs has announced that she is already in preparation, while recognizing that there are no generalities in this matter, for the eventuality that there is an independent Catalan state in a clean future. But obviously we also have to do this in very generic terms, because those that have not been announced in the communication media are absolutely unknown to us, which we believe should not be in the case of the Catalan legislative chamber. And lastly, we also ask for a relationship between the meetings held between the departments of the Generality, within these enterprises of the public sector of the Generality or between the other branches of the Generality of Catalonia, in which information has been exchanged regarding the possibility of a secession of Catalonia respecting the rest of Spain, and all the acts of preparation, execution, contingency plans, protocols and in anticipation of any consequences of this secession. Since it is so vastly transcendent that the government is planning to do it in its own months and tells us that it already has it practically all at once, it seems entirely reasonable to us that this chamber may know who all these preparations are in all spheres: in the legislative texts and also in the material actions, contingency plans, protocols for whatever events that may be produced in this transition that they aspire to provoke. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.65.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. To defend the papers presented for the Popular Party of Catalonia, has the word Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.66.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, this Member, as Deputy Pedret has said, is a response to some of the worrying statements made by President Puigdemont, statements that have been cited by the proposer of this motion, but it is also framed in a context, it is framed in the context of statements that have created a certain social alarm: they are the statements of which he was a representative of the Republican Left to the Senate and of statements of different features of the Generality, which give more explanation to the lobby of the ANC than to the Parliament of Catalonia. It's a very serious matter. Mr. Santiago Vidal has accused the Government of the Generalitat of committing heavy crimes, crimes promoted by various departments, crimes that affect, that violate the rights of Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's not an anecdote; they can laugh, Mr Junqueras, but it's not an anecdote, because these words are hard words; they're words that have been confirmed by important Republican leftovers, such as their number 1 at the Congress of Deputies, or their number 2 at the Department of Economy, Mr Lluís Saved. It is not an anecdote that is said that lists of public workers have been drawn up at the Generalité despatxos to prepare a future purge. It's not an anecdote that says there's 400_million euros hidden from the assumption to commit illegalities. It's not an anecdote that says the generality has us all illegally. It is not an anecdote, because Lord Vidal is not a person of any kind, he is not a person passing through there and he took a microphone: he is the man who knew everything; he is the man who converged Convergence and Esquerra, now forming Together for the Yes or « Together for the Saints ; « Together for the Saints because he was a man made for Arthur but like the other branch of the Generality ; « Together for the Saints because Junqueras posed him as number 1, as the spokesman of the Republican Esquerra to the Senate. In short, it is an important person for Convergence and Esquerra who has denounced that the Generality has committed serious crimes against the rights of Catalans. And the generality shut up, and whoever shuts up, hang up. Because if Mr. Vidal is lying, he's already cheating on the generality to sue for slander and defamation. And the generality shut up, and whoever shuts up, hang up. Here there are only two options: either lie or prevail. They're either treating us all in pieces, or misrepresenting public funds. Or Vidal and Rufian slander and defame the Generality, or this right-wing violation of the Catalans. I therefore thank the presentation of this motion by Congressman Pedret, because here we play something more important than a debate on the model of society, on whether we are left-handed, whether we are straight; because here we play a lot. It's a question that transcends even the whole monotheme of the process, it's a question that goes beyond independence or not. The point is that there are policies that are prepared to take absolute control, even if they presume to violate the rights of Catalans. There are some policies that, embolized with a stellate, are unpunished, over good and evil, as if they were a rule. And here there will be no conflict, as some will; here what will be there is justice, and here the democratic opposition must come together; the repte is massive, overcomes ideologies, overcomes identities, because it affects the color of democracy, affects from freedom of thought to the right to intimacy. We have presented a statement, and we thank him, Mr Pedret, that he has accepted it. We tried that when we wrote it; in fact, we wrote it with a certain grammatical empathy, can we say, no? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey! , it's a bunch of two points, two lines without a point, just like the young lady. But not just empathy in form, but also in the background, because it deals with transparency, accountability, respects Parliament and democracy. It's a slogan, like the young lady, that everyone can vote for it. In fact, it is a point that has already been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia: it is a question of Resolution 47/XI, which the Generality is not fulfilling. Our concern again demands that the Generality be held accountable for the lobbying contracted for the Generality and its costs. This is done because we have indications that, through some lobby, public money has been paid to third people to carry out actions that might tempt against the rights and freedoms of Catalans. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.67.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Then, in order to defend the emena presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word of Mr. Matías Alonso.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.68.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice-President, Councillor, Members of Parliament... Well, we need to position ourselves in a motion that faces the real monotheme of the Government of the Generality and the political forces that support us in this Parliament. This young man claims to lie down on this issue from the point of view of transparency, and it is what he does: ask the House of Commons to urge the Government of the Generality to be transparent in the current version of the monotheme – you already know: "Or referendum or referendum. It's about transparency, but it's more of a point on the point of the question. It is a commendable effort of the Socialist Group, to demand transparency from the Government of the Generality, which is precisely PhD in opacity, are masters of opacity. Mr Pedret, Socialists, this is not very transparent, this has been more than democracy, but democracy with capitals, democracy as it is the consolidated democracies of our circle, as it is in Germany, France, Italy, Belgium and, of course, Spain. The first question of substance that I want to raise and which we must make clear is that the democratic order in force – also, therefore, the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy – establishes the political framework in which the institutions of the Generality must exercise the self-government of Catalonia, respecting at all times, in relations with other institutions of the State, the principle of mutual institutional loyalty and – I quote literally – « the general principle according to which the Generality is State. I've said it a number of times, since this Faristol, but today I come back to notice it: ladies and gentlemen, we're state, we're an active part of the state. When some speak of the Spanish State as an alien, they want to deny an undeniable democratic reality: all the institutions of the Generality of Catalonia, the Parliament of Catalonia, the Presidency of the Generality and its Government are, we are, the Spanish State. The second question of substance is to make it clear that all the homologated democracies of our circle – all – understand the concept of democracy as an instrument that determines the subject of political power and the limits for exercising it; an instrument that seeks the essential objective of achieving equality in freedom; an instrument that, to all the democracies of our circle, is based on three great principles: political representation, division of powers and pluralism. If the government, whatever it is, wants to exercise power without respecting any of these three fundamental principles, we can hardly speak of a truly democratic government. We live in a complex society, where we enjoy a well-established and approved democracy, and recognized for our partners in the European Union. And complex societies don't admit sensile solutions like populisms propose. Unfortunately, the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia has long, long ago, which is in the hands of reactionary populism that embodies, at the hour of today, the electoral coalition of Junts for the Yes, a populism that only finds international support in populisms as reactionary as we are painted with the current government of the Generalitat. The Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is convinced that populism is hardly compatible with democracy. We believe that the intent of political groups which, by action or omission, support the separatist project of the current Government of the Generality, which lacks representative democracy invoking false political solutions, pro-populism..., is a real threat to democratic freedoms, and so we denounce it. That is why we have presented three points, which, unfortunately, the Socialist Parliamentary Group did not want to admit, preferred to maintain the virtual scenario of separatism. We, who do not compete with the separatist dogma, would prefer that we have also spoken, in this young man, of our papers. It was not possible, but it would have adjusted much more to the reality of things. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not believe in populist solutions that want to present themselves as the only truly democratic and deny all legitimacy to the democratic order in force. There will be no reference or reference. The government and the groups that support it know this: there is no margin for unilaterality, and we are far from the basic consensus to renew the populist positions of the current government. The solution, indeed, is at the polls, in some nine autonomous elections, which, given the impotence of the Puigdemont government, are every day closer to each other. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Next, to fix his position, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.70.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, say that we, from Catalonia Yes, it is, we will support the literality of the motion that the PSC is proposing to us today, and the requirement of clarity and explanation before this chamber that formulates this motion for what it does to the preparation of a possible secession. And we think that, coherently, all the political formations of this chamber, whether they are supporters of independence or not, should make their claim. Because it is a complaint, in our opinion, indefusible, of transparency and responsibility before the legitimate representation of the people of Catalonia. We are doing this by principle, but we are also doing so, concretely and clearly, from our compromise with the National Referendum Pact, and with its manifesto, a manifesto which has been signed by all the forces supporting the Government and which explicitly advocates a dialogue between the Generality and the Spanish Execution in order to agree on a consultation in which the citizenry can take the word on the future of Catalonia, with full democratic guarantees and with the recognition of the international community. But we think, precisely, that the constant announcements about the imminence of unilateral action, the secrecy around the preparations for an independence that would have a fixed date, only need to remain credible to the perspective of this reference between the Spanish and international democratic public opinion. And by the way, as ex-senator Santiago Vidal did, they were hardly removing the moral authority of this settlement and adding confusion to an already uncertain situation. After Vidal, and after which it cost us that Mr Junqueras passed his statement that the senator had explained badly to the explicit denial of his most serious statements, after all, provided that he still asked the government to know on which legal bases, with five advices, with five foundations, with five contingency plans or through five preparations, the proclamation of an independent new state will be completed. Because, if that was the government's proposal, the government would have to be the first interested in losing doubts, to prove that its plans had nothing to do with Mr. Vidal's fantasies, to prove that the execution is working in a serious, determined and responsible way; naturally, if it is really about proclaiming a republic, and if everything folded out is not ultimately a maneuver to generate a climate of emotional tension that favors them in the face of own autonomous elections. We have said this many times, but I can repeat it after the last moves of the Constitutional Court: the judicial and criminal way in which the Spanish Government has been involved in the political conflict is proving, these days, therefore, that it does not lead in place, that it only aggravates and straines the political conflict. But the intrigues, the hidden plans, the cunning and the deception, which are serious, sense of doubt, understandable and necessary to win a tyranny, do not escape, in the present situation, because, all the democratic deficits that we can signify in the Spanish State, all and the recent drift of the last years under the government of the PP, despite all this, neither Catalonia is a colony nor is we under a Franco dictatorship. That verbal and rhetorical excesses do not make us lose sight of the world, and, we do not deceive ourselves: the path to a covenant referendum, which we advocate, will be long and complicated. We know that we are looking forward to a job in preparation and that it will be necessary to generate new correlations of forces, political scenes to make it possible. We know that the stability of the new PP government has closed a certain window of opportunity, and that the situation of the European Union makes Rajoy probably feel, today, comforted in his stationary position. The international context makes us – if I may have a military analogy – think that we are more early before a war of trenches than before open camp battles. But the same circumstances that make the path complex to an agreed referendum mean that a unilateral summons may, in the best of the cases, become a demonstration of strength, but in no case does the referendum that the Catalan society needs to shed light on the situation. Rajoy's immobility on the basis of the question, combining negatives and offers of close-up dialogue, seeks to stifle and paralyze the Catalan society, but, in the face of this, the mystery surrounding these transitional laws, the announcement of a new legality that would undermine itself if a legitimacy that you do not expect from the configuration of a sufficient social majority, all this facilitates these maneuvers of the central government. We want to break with a dynamic that leads us to an institutional shock without a negotiated exit, in which the national rights and interests of the Catalan society would need to be lost. Therefore, what we think is that it is a change of course based on the construction of vast majority of social and democratic progress, and that is why we urge the government to demand clear and clear play. And, as signatories to the National Covenant for Referendum, we ask them, a little more, loyalty, loyalty to the given word. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.71.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next, has the word Mr. Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.72.0	Thank you, President. Well, our group – I suppose that's no surprise – would vote for this young man's approval. We will not enter into the articulation of his proposal: for us the discrepancy is a question of principles, in this case, of the logical mark, eh? And I have to say that I am making this intervention not just to argue the motive of our vote denying this motion, but also impacted by the intervention that Mr Rabell has just made. Frankly, I am deeply sad, I must say, frankly; a profound sadness which, with this intervention, you are clearly in the position of the Unionist bloc. You must know what they're doing. [[Widow's remorse.]] You have time to rectify, sense of doubt, huh? Well, look...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.73.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.74.0	...why am I telling them it's a logical issue? No doubt, we are in a political conflict, in a democratic conflict between the Catalan nation and the Spanish State. And you, instead of putting the focus where the origin of the democratic conflict is wrong, put it in this Parliament and place it in the Catalan nation. It's a huge mistake – it's a huge mistake. Where there is the restriction of rights, where there is the democratic restriction, where there is a limitation of rights in the Spanish State, it is in the Spanish Government and in the Spanish institutions, not in this Parliament, not in this birth. And in turn, you put the focus on the Catalan Parliament and the Catalan institutions. Mirin, on which they rely on us, on which they rely on the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, has no doubt that we are absolutely compromised with the transparency and the compliment of parliamentary democracy, obviously. And, therefore, we will strictly age for this Parliament to complete the democratic mandate of the elections on 27 September, and for it to control and urge the Government of the Generality because this is also done in this way. We will see to it that the government strictly complies with the agreements that are being made in this Parliament. And, of course, we will see to it that the legality that is more of a right generator, that extensifies and amplifies the democratic window for the society of this country is complete. And there is no doubt: if there is a collision between a restrictive Spanish legal framework at the right level and a catal amplifier-like legal framework, amplifier from the point of view of the rights, we urge the Parliament and the Government to follow the law more amplifying the right, not the more restrictive, more than you say illegality. Therefore, I insist, you are confounding the focus. Focus, the problem of democratic regression is in the Spanish State. And we don't see them in Congress, in the Senate, in the Spanish institutions questioning this democratic regression, questioning the gene and origin of this democratic conflict with the Catalan nation. We do not see them immediately the Spanish institutions to amplify, to example their normal mark, their legal mark so that it is possible to exercise the right to self-determination, as has been done in the case of Canada or as has been done in the case of the United Kingdom. Therefore, what we are asking you is that, in the conflict that we are living and the conflict that will come – because there is no doubt that this Parliament will bring forward the decisions that derive from its democratic mandate, and there is no doubt that the Catalan society will be mobilized to defend its democratic rights – you are clearly positioned on one side or on the other, because the time will come when they will have to do so. And you're sitting next to statements claiming the 155 application? Is it on the side of interventions that come also from the files of your party and its ideological environment, which claim the intervention of the Civil Guard? Will they stand on the side of the actions of the State or the Spanish Government that intend to illegalize political parties such as the CUP or that will bring to justice the elected representatives of this country for the fact of defending the right to decide? Are they going to stand next to the crackdown? From the army? From the Civil Guard? , of the Constitutional Court? - from the National Audience? Or are they on the side of the democratic movement? Will they stand at the side of the social forces defending the right to decide and the right to collect in a democratic way? It's about the moment when everyone will have to position themselves, and we're asking you to follow your democratic tradition – we're asking Catalonia too.Yes, it's possible – I'm clear what they are, because the time is up. Time was up and this people is determined to decide, to decide democratically and to decide on the basis of the right to self-determination, which no one can deny. You don't have a doubt about what you're going to be doing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Fabian Mohedano, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.76.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Deputies, from Junts for the Yes very positively, therefore, that it is possible to speak of this question to institutions of the Socialist Group, that both in the past Ple as in this has been discussed around a possible secession of Catalonia respect of Spain. Allow me to say that it costs me what Congressman Riera of "focus, his own strategy, the language he serves, no longer only in the title of this young man, eh? And, inevitably, let me be perverse, Congressman Pedret, I have to go to the newsroom to remember some questions. I'm sure you kept in your memory that cover of the Ara diary of February 27, 2013, entitled: "The PSC is emancipating itself. Socialists stand out from the PSOE and vote with Convergence, Left and Initiative. Rubalcaba announces a fine at school and a review of relationships. Well, relationships we've already known, four years later, as they ended: with planned records to be able to vote for the secretary general of the PSOE and with permission for the post-election pact. You can say that this is a tendentious cover or that it is a diary that is a little friend of the PSC. Let's go to another font, let's go to another font from the hemerotheque: let's go to the blog A world to win, which I think Congressman Pedret knows well enough. There can be read, for the same time, a strong enough text in relation to the subject before us: "The political situation in Catalonia demands that it should comply with the democratic principle by asking a direct, concise and simple question to the citizenry, which can be answered unequivocally. I didn't write this, but Congressman Pedret wrote it. This transformation of the Socialist Party in the last four years has been incredible. What happened because since 2013 we bet – allow me to speak in the first person of the plural – for the right to decide to speak of a" eventual secession, not to say of a" eventual separation? - What happened? Why only in the middle of 2016, from now on, with the explanation of the previous question, Congressman Pedret, in which he spoke of the whole list of questions that had been made in his parliamentary office... Only a half year ago he said: "What is the government doing to build an independent Catalan state? They are no longer talking about "independent Catalan state", they are talking about "possibly secession". The language used is not free, Mr. Deputy, and you know it. Guarantee of legality. The Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes is clear that the process that eventually leads us to the creation of an independent state will last with full guarantees and within a legal framework. That's exactly what we're asking for and what we're working for, and I can assure you that the deputy who talks to him is here where he feels comfortable: in a process with guarantees and in a legal framework. It remains clear in the manifesto of the National Covenant for the Referendum – I will be allowed a small plea: led, as you already know, for the socialist friend Joan Ignasi Elena – a document that advocates to seek an agreement with the State and to hold the consultation. Deu_mil signatures in the first seven hours; deu_mil signatures where there is, at last, that of the deputy Pablo Iglesias, but head of the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. A little recognizable language, he said. What's the point, Mr. Pedret? Menystenir? , generate by? Criminalizing? We have left words that represent great demands and mental marks such as self-determination, civil unity of the people? Why is a language for populism and Spanish nationalism as separatism, secession, concord and mantras as independence divides or assumes the other great mantra of the real problems of the people? Mr. Congressman, this young man is missing finsa, lost in centrality, and the results are a little poor. Where is the collective intelligence that has been wonderful to many of us and that has written to us its party? Make a motion to accuse the government of little transparency and expect it to approve is not close to a central party or a government party as its own has been. Our vote, as you know, as you can imagine, will be contrary. Mr Pedret, I add to your triad: "Republic, federation, democracy. There we found each other, and I'm convinced we'll find each other again. I can't read a text because it's over... I think it's over, but, go, a text from your blog where... [[Widow's remorse.]] But, in any case, Congressman Pedret, stop putting up the wheels, and if you don't agree with the creation of an independent state, start campaigning for no. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.77.0	Thank you, Mr. Mohedano. To pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr Ferran Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.78.0	Thank you, President. Now yes: thanks, counselor, counselor, deputies, deputies. With regard to the reports, as has been said, we assume that the PP's opinion is that what it does is to raise a question again..., which, of course, Mr Riera, his parliamentary group gave support to it in committee: it voted in favour of providing this documentation to Parliament. And the other three points remaining in the Socialist Drafting House go exactly in the same line, asking for information to be provided to this Parliament. And for what he does to the Citizens, like they come out of the narrow object that we raised in our youth, so, we didn't take them, as has already been said. To see, Mr Mohedano, more than the argument that I suppose he extruded from the intervention of the Lord Munté, that "who has seen us and who has seen us, to the PSC, etc., that it does not cease to be an ad hominem fallacy, what happens is that in the place of individual, collective, and, therefore, simply not demonstrating the validity of the arguments, if it has not given anyone in his intervention, more than the stylistic considerations on a topic that should be a little more familiar..., since he is in a group that claim independence from Catalonia, that it is that in the literature on the question is "secession, and the nationalist authors of Quebec and of arrest, is not "secession", and is not "secession". I might mean that it can be what it can't be, huh? I mean, that's something we might not have to explain. Listen, I'm voting against a young man who's asking that since independence is supposed to be imminent and that's all there is to it, let this Parliament know who these preparations are and how it's going to be executed, there's a bit of moral authority left to whom there are votes against to give us lessons on what's done and what's not done in a parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.79.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. We are calling for the vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Rabell, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.80.0	For allusions and contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.81.0	Thirty seconds. See if we can make it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.82.0	We'll try. No, very briefly, in relation to what the companies of the CUP say, which seems that when Together for the Yes the entanglements get angry with us. [[Rialles.]] Our proposal or position has nothing to do with unionism or independence, but with clarity and transparency before this Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of the CUP, you have denounced many times that you from the majority of the government entangle them, the fans xantatge. You should be the first to know who are the preparations for it that many times have promised and never fulfilled. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.83.0	Mr. Riera, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.84.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.85.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.86.0	Yeah, I'd be praying to Congressman Rabell that he doesn't treat us like playgrounds, 'cause that's not the point, huh? I have expressed a deep sadness to her, I assure her that sincere, for having seen her political position on the side of the law and the order before that on the side of the right to self-determination, even though this generates a political conflict and a democratic conflict with Spanish law. And I assure you that..., on the part of this Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed I did not doubt the strength and rigour of our settlement before any one: before your group, before the government and the majority parliament. For us, I assure you, you don't have to have any doubts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.87.0	We're voting for the lady. The vote begins. The motion on actions to prepare for a possible secession was rejected by 63 votes to 69, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the collection of tax data]] [[302-00111/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on the collection of fiscal data, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word the lady Alicia Romero. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, as always, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.88.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, counselors, deputies and deputies. The Socialist Group presents the motion that follows the inquiry that we were going to make to the Government on the obtaining of the fiscal data, from the statements that the exsenador and judge Santiago Vidal made a few months ago in different acts organized for the Republican Left, and in which, in some way, he claimed that the Government was committing some crimes, in concrete terms, fiscal crimes, because he said that the Government obtained and used the tax data illegally. It was with this strength, and therefore we wanted to make an inquiry asking the government for clarifications about these difficult statements, so we believe that if they were true as if they were lied, because, in the end, this lord, therefore, was a public office. It is true that he resigned, but he was, and he has a responsibility, and, moreover, his profession is judicious, and therefore knowledgeable in addition to the laws. In our young man what we want is to guarantee some things, especially because we believe that, beyond these claims that he makes, what we want, we understand, Santiago Vidal with his statements is to give arguments to those who listen to him from how the government is pulling forward the secessionist process, which he was also talking about in the former man: how the government is working to separate itself from the state, to reach independence. And we think that this is very high, because it deals with a lot of issues, beyond taxation. And we think the government should be transparent – and it was said before – with what they're doing, because it doesn't just deserve the deputies that we are here today, but also the citizens of Catalonia, because, in the end, it's done with public resources, it's done with the Generality's workers. And we think, then, that's all the right we have to know what's going on. And our young lady also went a little on this line, very attached to the work being done by the Tax Agency. As you know, it is the most important state structure and, probably – and that is why it gives so much importance to the government – the structure that must be prepared for a possible secession. If the Tax Agency isn't prepared, if it doesn't have tax data, if it can't collect and manage taxes, unviable that a state can survive, right? And so, that's why we wanted to make a very attached young man to this aspect. Let us speak, in the first two points, that it is necessary to guarantee the compliment of the law; therefore, it is necessary to guarantee the legality in obtaining and using – and also using – the tax data of all taxpayers. The Generality has data, obtained data, and does so legally and, therefore, can use it in its competitions, but outside the competitions it cannot obtain data illegally. And, therefore, we want this to be clear with the vote. Then, we propose a few points, from 3 to 6, that is, four points in which we ask for reports; some reports because they seem very important to us to also eliminate suspicions about the work being done by the government and to ensure that this work is done well. And we have to tell him that we have some doubts, for what we know, and for what the agents working at the Tax Agency also explain to us. And, therefore, we ask for a report on how you are working, how the e-SPRIU program is working. We also ask for a report on how the recording and digitization tasks of the consignors that managed the Liquidator Offices and that since August 1 manages the Tax Agency are working. It's very important to know how they're digitizing these shipments, because if they're not digitized and they're not in the system, they're out there, and that means we don't have them controlled. And this is an important issue for the Catalan heritage and to keep the tickets guaranteed. We also ask for a report in order to know how they are integrated or how they will cover the places they occupy in these moments the tasks that the Liquidator Offices do, a topic that we have also long talked about here. We also ask for a report on the selection procedures provided for the Tax Agency. It seems important to us, because, in the end, it will depend on whether the Tax Agency is in a position to do the task that the government wants to hold on to at least. We don't share it, but in any case, it's the one the government wants to hold on to. Therefore, these are our proposals. We have rejected Junts for the Yes, and CUP and Ciutadans. I have to say we accept Ciutadans's emena. I also want to thank the deputy of the CUP, the Benet Salellas, for his work. We made a deal that, in the end, therefore, could not be, because we ask that the data that is obtained remain in the competencies that the Generality has. And here, then, he knows it's hard for us to agree, but in any case, we haven't made the point. And then I want to especially thank Maria Senserrich for the waist you often have to try to agree on things and for the government to be transparent and present what they're doing. It is important, indeed; above all, for the prestige of the government and of this country, that for a long time it has done the right things, and it would be good if we did not have access to this path. And, therefore, delivering and presenting this information to us is basic. He wanted to thank, therefore, his work, which certainly has been difficult, in a department with which, sometimes, therefore, it is difficult for us to hear. I shall therefore reply to a few other comments, but this is the proposal that we are presenting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.89.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented by Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.90.0	Okay. Vice President, companies, deputies, deputies... thank you, president. Well, this motion is a response to whom with his assertions cast doubt on the personal data of all Catalans. I say this because sometimes it seems, according to the debate we had yesterday, that the statements of Mr Vidal have been made by a Mr from Ciutadans, or from the Socialist Party, or from the People's Party, or from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot or from any opposition group. No: The statements that have sown the doubt come from a Republican Left Senator. It is therefore normal and customary for the opposition to do its job. The role of the opposition is to control the Government and, therefore, to ask all the necessary questions. And the role of the Government is to respond to them. I'm saying... what has happened in Catalonia for a long time is that there has been no opposition. In fact, the opposition that was, the leader of the opposition, is now sitting next to the president, and that is not very common in democracy. But, in any case, it is customary for a senator of your party to charge crimes directly with the Government of Catalonia, so the opposition will ask them. Don't get angry, don't get nervous, because it's normal in democracy. And governments have to answer, they have to answer all the questions. And that is the objective of this motion of the Socialist Party, and we would also like to thank Congresswoman Alicia Romero, for all the contributions she has made throughout this motion and also her willingness to negotiate and end up having a more complete text, if any. Therefore, this motion should never really have been introduced; in fact, we should never have been talking about that in the Parliament of Catalonia. But you will understand that when a Republican Left Senator is three months across Catalonia in eleven acts saying that the Government of Catalonia is using data illegally from Catalans, then you will understand that we have to make parliamentary initiatives, ask him, motions. And you also make it very difficult for us, because you do not answer the questions; then, you will understand that we ask them every day. And since you are the kings of the monotheme, you will have to get used to it now that every day we ask you for Mr Vidal until you answer the questions, until the President of the Government of Catalonia decides once and for all to stop hiding and come to give his face to the plenary. Until this happens, our work as an opposition, for what we are paid for, among many other things and initiatives that we have to do in Parliament, is to control you when you try to jump over the law. So, what did they expect? That we didn't file motions? That we didn't ask any questions? That we should not challenge the government? Well, no; indeed, that's all we've done. We will therefore vote in favour of this motion. In addition, we will vote in favour and we will also accept an amendment proposed by our group, which is also one of the Achilles' heels. I believe there are three fundamental Achilles heels in your defense of Mr. Vidal. One is, first, that the president doesn't appear, and when a president doesn't appear, it's that something hides. The second Achilles heel is that Mr. Vidal was three months explaining truths – or lies, according to you – throughout Catalonia. And the third Achilles heel is that you have not initiated any legal action. And on that third issue is the amendment that the Socialist Group has accepted. Yesterday the vice-president replied that, well, they were not going to bring any legal action nor were they going to sue or complain against Mr Santiago Vidal. Well, what we are asking for in this motion is precisely that, because when a government..., they speak against it; when such serious crimes are charged against a government and you are so clear that it is a lie, what you would have to do the next day is sue this gentleman. Because we do not want the Government of the Generalitat of Catalonia, which is the Government of all Catalans, not only its own, to be under the shadow of such a grave suspicion that they have used data from all Catalans for political purposes, for ultimately illegal purposes, as Mr Vidal explained. We will therefore vote in favour of this motion; a motion which, as the Socialist Party Member pointed out, also seeks transparency in its management. You, who have the less transparent Transparency Councillor in the world, who hides information from the citizens' deputies, for it is not wrong that from time to time you give them a lesson in transparency in the Parliament of Catalonia and force them through this motion, if it is finally approved, to comply with their obligation, which is to be transparent. We already know that they do not like transparency; we already know that Convergence has not been characterized by transparency; but it seems that the comrades of Esquerra are being hit very quickly by this lack of transparency. So we also support Mrs Romero's proposal that they report on everything they are doing, absolutely everything, and that they are, once and for all, transparent with the Vidal case. We'll have more opportunities to talk about the Vidal case, as you know. Until you answer the questions, we will talk every day about the Vidal case, as you speak every day of independence. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.91.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Maria Senserrich.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.92.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, as you see, we have reached an agreement; we have made some transactions, there is an agreement, and that will be the vote that will continue. Therefore, Junts's will not only for the Yes, but also for the Government, is that there is all the information about the table. And so it was, because there were the appearances of the same vice president, also of the secretary of Hysenda, and of all the people who appeared on the day of the CAI, and, in addition, of the Economy late, and they gave all the explanations. Here, at the control session, not once, but two. There has always been a predisposition to transparency. And, I'm telling you, nobody here forces us to deal with the PSC, nobody forces us to give information, just because we want you to have all the information because we're a group that we believe in transparency and have a government, that we support, that you believe in transparency. See if we believe so much in transparency, that you said: "Governments have to answer – said you, the deputy of Ciutadans. So, I say: "Governments have to answer, yes, but don't talk too much. You have made President of the Spanish Government Mr Rajoy, who has a minister who is said Montoro, who in his parliamentary institution made some totally unfortunate statements. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes – yes, yes – but you made him minister, because you made Mr Rajoy president. [[Widow's remorse.]] Therefore, do not give lessons – do not give lessons – of transparency, because precisely you give support to those who, perhaps, do an excess of their burden. The Government of the Generality is very clear that transparency must be and is a key factor in moving forward, obviously. The fight against the fraud... And that's why we want this information, because it's very clear that this government..., and so it has been, and we've been able to follow the statements in press releases these days that it's fought a lot against the tax fraud and they're going out and out money, and more than they're going out. What? So, working with a very strong tax agency, which responds to the needs of our country; not only from now on, but from a future, obviously. Let's not get bogged down. Why don't we just keep it together, huh? I don't love it: that's why it says transparency, too – transparency. And I recommend you, therefore, that you see that there has been an agreement here, that I reiterate the thanks of Congresswoman Romero that... she is willing to have information? So, if you've worked on it, you've made a proposal that we believe that... we've made a change of terms for a more practical subject of keeping things girls, well placed on the table as they should be, and so you've come to an agreement with total normality, as it has to be in the Parliament of Catalonia. So, sometimes, with stretch-and-run, but in the end you come to consensus, because the common goal of all Members, whether or not opposition – all – is that things are good girls. There are no distinctions here. And that's why we give support to a government that also has a firm conviction that things must be done well. And so they'll work, we'll work, and we'll get that, so there's all the information available that needs to be. And I'm telling you, while some of them answer, others talk about more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.93.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Senserrich. Next, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.94.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, vice president... clearly, the young lady has a certain misconception, right? As the least I can do is allow Mrs Romero to say so. I mean, I'm not sure what we're talking about is data protection or the Santi Vidal case. I say it because, depending on what we're talking about, we'll have one position or another. What do I mean by that? So, if we're talking about data protection, the motion is manifestly insufficient, or the debate we've had here is manifestly insufficient. We live in a society where, precisely, which is being tended every time more is to relax the question of data protection. I'm not saying you agree, am I? , but the constant use of social networks, therefore, that makes everyone start to take pictures of his private, of his youngest children, all kinds of situations compromised to the network, actually put into question, somehow, this need for the protection of personal data, or as at least generates a paradox about how our society sees the question of the protection of data. It is also happening to us in the question of the debate on security. That is to say, in the name of the fight against terrorism we have very much relaxed the question of data protection and we have been allowed, and somehow I think that the society mostly allows it, that CNI, police, judges, prosecutors, who follow, intervene our communications, our data and have great files on those people who, therefore, the power of return considers that they must be investigated, right? Therefore, the debate on the issue of data protection is extraordinarily much broader than the form in which it was put forward by the PSC's motion. I do not want to fail to say, too, that curiously the question of data protection is often used only against certain operators. That is to say, the sanction to the ANC or to the Cultural Ómnium for the question of the gigaenesta, as to the question concerning the offence in the matter of data protection, does not cease to be contradictory in a context in which we know that Google, that Facebook, that all these multinationals are constantly trading with our personal data, with our tastes that we express through the internet, and therefore there is a certain double yard to measure, right? With the ANC and with OM, for a giant, so we'll get them a fine sticking together to see if they fall for their hair once in a while, in the name of data protection, and Google, Facebook and company will bill every year millions of euros trading with our personal data and this will look like the sea of good to us. Clearly, the PSC's motion, in this sense, does not address the whole issue, just as it does not address a topic that we have posed on the table many times, which is the protection of the personal data of political activists. We have lived in Catalonia the question of the Cesicat, we have lived, in Catalonia, for example..., some of us have companies and companies that now with Mobile World Congress will not be able to work because their catering companies for which work it turns out that Mossos d'Esquadra brings them to some black lists of people who cannot participate in these types of catering because they have a certain ideological profile, and therefore in those events where Joan Carles or Felipe went from the House of Bourbon it turns out that there can be no certain people working for camels and camels. And, therefore, this is a question that we are deeply concerned about: how is the question of data. But the PSC's motion focuses on a very concrete view, and when we somehow fully mention the good intentions of the world and say: "So, yes, we are going to get the most data to fight fraud, corruption, tax evasion, and, on the part of the PSC, we say: "Yes, but always from the powers of the Generality of Catalonia... It is to say, when, at the end of the balance, and when we raise the fight against fraud, which is always the question of competition, we see that at the end of the object of this motion is another case: the object of this motion is to generate a caricature on independence; that is, the whole question of the powers, we see that at the end of the object of this man is another case: the object of this man is to generate a caricature on independence; that is the very thing that can be done in the past. And, therefore, we work together with the caricature of independence, so, as you must understand, and I suppose that I do not explain why, we will not work with it. In any case, in everything that is requested reports, therefore, I count on our vote, because it is obvious that the Government, therefore, has to account in this chamber with the utmost transparency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.95.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, to fix his position, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vice President, Members of Parliament, Catalonia Yes, it is possible to support this motion, and we will do so in all that we agree on in its establishment, and we will not let ourselves be conditioned, logically, by any type of moral conviction, that we have our criteria and the ability to defend it. What has passed has a special gravity, and as much as the Government intends to close it down and pass our pages we will not do so, because it is not a political conflict between the Spanish State and the Generality, that it would be difficult if it were already, it is a conflict between political power and citizenship, because what is clearly claimed with these assertions is to try to explain that it is legitimate to violate people's fundamental rights to achieve a political objective. And that's what Mr. Santi Vidal's statements are about. Allow me to say to you, too, that these statements, and above all what has passed after them, pose as manifest the path without exit in which the defenders of the light unilaterality, the unilaterality of paper, of stone, not the one that was accompanied by insubmission, that would be legitimate, but that for the moment I do not feel anyone who is laying it. Referendum is not just legitimate, but it is essential in democratic terms. We haven't been the first defenders, especially before the ones he was considered to have been screened. Independence is legitimate and has serious arguments to be defended. What is not possible is to set up this unilaterality light, which is dressed as it is dressed– of plebiscites, disobedience, disconnection, legal transitoryity, astuteness – not only is it not viable, but it is more difficult democratic consequences, as has been seen from the Vidal case. The gravity of Senator Santi Vidal's information increases from the behavior of the Government – the Government – of the groups that support it and the group that supports it, which is not exactly the same, even though the consequences are the same. The record as it was, the trajectory is the following: first, silence for many days by Vice President Junqueras, who passed the pilot to the government spokesman. A denial of the government's spokesman, which, of course, I must allow you – I know hard, there is not the friend, who is a friend, Neus Munté – who, after what happened with the meeting Rajoy-Puigdemont, any denial of any government spokesman is not credible, from this point of view: you will have to regain moral authority to make denials. Ratification, after, in the first instance, of Santi Vidal. I remember, didn't I? He said, "No, no, I'm doing this, because I do it because I grow it and to encourage the parish. Evidently, parliamentary attendance is a step towards giving explanations of the subject. He resigned from the senator. But for the time being the only explanation he has given is: "Listen, I did this to give people souls in this essential process. I honestly believe that this is not the way to give people, this is the way to frustration. And then up the top, when Vice President Junqueras finally shows up and explains to us: "Mr Santi Vidal has explained himself badly, it was a mistake. Home, you see, we all explain badly to the length of our lives – I, many times – but, listen, explaining badly for three months followed before so many people is something more than explaining badly. I had a master who said Lopez Bulla saying, "Look, a mistake is a mistake. A mistake that is twice is a repeated error. Three times, error is an option. In this case, it's a political option. And the problem is up to what point this political option is a thing of a lonely game – I said yesterday – of Mr Santi Vidal or well part of a strategy. Look, listen, the truth, so much with the predicted behavior, letting this thing proliferate... Santi Vidal was the most wanted person to do this type of act, he was applauded, his interventions reproduced in the network, he was a real hero of this process, you know? Then, as they later..., which is « wrong, not well explained, pose as manifest that we are not before a mistake, but we are before a political option, which is not individual, but is collective. And at this point, we will continue to insist on setting up initiatives on our part, and the initiatives of the other groups will gather them. Why? Why is the intervention of Mr Santi Vidal becoming clearer? I don't think you'll ever be able to make it clear, but if you're sure that you're going to give up this strategy of believing that you can cheer people up in a legitimate process by deceiving it, you're going to get a thousand euros in social security, you're going to get 200,000 euros in reverse, or it turns out that everything here is going to be flowers and violets. No, we before that can't share it. And they will understand – and with this I finish – that, bearing in mind that the only explanation that until now has been from the Government is to deny that this has happened and that the Holy Vidal went for free and was wrong, it is not credible. Since the denial of the Rajoy-Puigdemont meeting, any denial you make does not have this credibility issue, you have to put some more argument on the table than the denial. His lies are worth what he's seen: nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, the words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.98.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, I am addressing the Government and the group that supports you, right? including the CUP, huh? Because we can't forget about you in any case in all that history. Do you remember Mr. Vidal? Yeah, right? Mr. Junqueras, yes? Or not? Have you forgotten? Yes, that judge, senator, advisor, auric advisor, father of the Catalan Constitution, and paradoxically for you it seems to pass by, doesn't it? And the most serious thing is that, as of today, we don't know if he was lying or telling the truth. Or maybe he was saying it, wasn't he? That's epic, isn't it? It's impressive. And do you remember, too, Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Salvadó? Yes, that Secretary of Finance, who is still there – who is still there – seems to be dedicated to setting up an illegal Catalan hacienda. Mr. Junqueras, you don't want to tell what leisure time is dedicated to. [[Rialles.]] No, no, What you're doing... you're doing something more serious: you're playing conspiracy. Therefore, measure your steps well, Mr Junqueras. Yesterday in the control session you didn't tell the whole truth about the Vidal case. There are twenty-six complaints – not twenty-four, Mr.Salellas, twenty-six complaints – in progress, and not just a complaint filed by the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia. And, besides, they're not new to using personal data illegally. The Catalan National Assembly, its street arm, has been fined two hundred and a thousand euros for the 9-N survey in which they used personal data from Catalans. Don't trample on our fundamental rights. And if you haven't really done it, you are against those who have publicly recognized it, because, otherwise, it can only be concluded that the three tenors – Vidal, Salvado and Rufián – have told the truth and have sung it before your audience, yes, you, gentlemen of Junts for Yes. All this sanctity is more like a conspiracy against the democratic government of Spain, except, as I say, that they categorically dismiss it and cease their charges for conspiracy or lying. The bad news is that this has been the case since 2012, entangled us with unfortunate shows that are more typical of banana republics than of consolidated democracies. Leave the epic, please, and take care of the aesthetics in its pure philosophical sense – perhaps you can give us a talk, a master lesson on it, Mr. Junqueras. Look, Mr. Mas has had a hard time sitting down for the moment on the bench of the defendants for disobedient. And Mrs Ortega, and Mrs Rigau, and soon Mr Homs. And those who will come from not rectifying. They're on time, huh? Vidal was forced to resign because he sang La traviata, because he verbalized what they have been machinating for a long time, and in the end they have left them in leathers, light in political clothing, and that you will have to recognize one day too. Mr. Santiago Vidal was held in the engine room, in the kitchen, and, poor Santi Vidal, he was thrown overboard. Why? For helmeting more of the account. [[Rialles.]] Little..., really, unfaithful, between comrades. You have, besides..., you have, and here it was said in your day, a problem with 3_per_cent. And they have another one now: playing conspiracy to overthrow democracy. Take it very seriously, huh? In fact, next week follows the judicial viacrucis, the Palau case, and Esquerra Republicana and the CUP will say: "This is a matter of Convergence. Listen, moral corruption also counts, you are ruling with Convergence. Isn't that corruption? Or do we just worry about economic corruption? It's moral corruption. Perhaps, perhaps, more serious, Mr Junqueras – more serious. Look, they're bordering the crime. Yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, well, we'll talk about that another time. Aren't you going to ask for a commission of inquiry? Then we'll talk about it. They flirt with the criminal offence, but I tell you one thing: the rule of law is watching them. [[Widow's remorse.]] And there will be no overreaction – listen to me, that this is going to please you even more – or violent. There will be no excessive or violent response as the UPC wishes, but scrupulous compliance with democratic legality through the action of justice. Do not put Catalan institutions at the service of independence, do it at the service of Catalans. They have abandoned to their fate those that we do not commulate with mill wheels, but I assure you that they will not subject us, because, even if they have registered us in the purest style of a police state, it will soon serve them. In short, it's all too rough. Instead of governing autonomy, they play a role in challenging democratic legality. That's what's left, huh? It's childish. I'm done. We are going to support the motion tabled by the Socialist Party in its entirety, because it seems to us to be an entirely appropriate point. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Next, to pronounce on the papers has the word Ms Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.100.0	Thank you, President, again. I'll try to go quickly. Deputy Salellas, I'm starting for you. Breument: it's not personal data, this young man; it's not about personal data, and you know it as well as I do. This young man is part of some Vidal court statements that pose in "discussing the government's work." And I think the government has to do first of all, and it should have done it – I told Vice President Junqueras already – is to compare it to its own petition as it had been better. If that came out a divender, huh? – and that's what we agree on – several of them, on Tuesdays, should have appeared, and not later; yes, they asked for it, but then the groups too. And, look, I'll also say one thing to the Group of Joints for the Yes, and to you, Vice President: "transparency meant to come urgently to appear not just you, the rest of the counselors. "Transparency means, when they are presented to the committee to vote for appearances so that counselors come to give explanations, which is vote yes. This is transparency and you haven't done this. And they've forced us to file a commission of inquiry so we can see if they're going to give all the proper explanations. If there's nothing to store, why aren't we transparent and explain things? So, look, they're not forcing us to file investigation commissions and forcing us to file motions with this. That, as Mr De Páramo said, so much good we did not have to present it, but we are obliged to do so, because at the end of "the job well done has no frontiers ended in this government. They don't do things well girls. They're not doing the right thing with tax data, with the Tax Agency. And we want them to explain how they're doing. Yes, we have very reasonable doubts, because there are many agents who work with you to explain it to us. Look, and more than that, as the only one who likes you, Mr. Junqueras, is to do great headlines who store some things we want you to explain to us, such as, for example, saying that from 2014..., between 2015 and..., 2014-2015 you have obtained 360_million euros of tax fraud. Well, you... yes, you. 80_percent of these tickets, via Liquidator Offices, which are the ones that review all the liquidating shippers. Yeah, yeah. Therefore, explain this: it is not the Tax Agency, it is, at these times, the Liquidator Offices, which you want to load without having a solution prepared so that they can guarantee the tickets, which at these times arrive for the taxes given. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did you say no? Perfect, explain it to us: present us two months from now these reports and we will see if it is not so. That's not so good, is it? , for the country and for Catalans and Catalans. In any case, we present a young man who has improved with the deal we made with Juntes for the Yes. I don't know why he is complaining so much, if he then has to vote in favour, with Ciutadans' proposal. And I know it's hard that we can't incorporate the CUP. But, anyway, if they're so transparent, they're not just in this young man, they're in everything. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.101.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Call it a vote. Mrs. Senserrich, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.102.0	For a Member's allusions. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.103.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.104.0	Mr. Santamaría, please don't talk to us about conspiracy, or loyalty – please, please – and much less..., they ask you not to threaten the deputies of this chamber, who do our work decently, chosen at the polls. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.105.0	Thank you, Mrs. Senserrich. Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.106.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 1 and point 7 of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.107.0	Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.108.0	Yes, Madam President, for Mrs Senserrich's remarks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.109.0	"Allusions," he said?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.110.0	Allusions from Mrs. Senserrich.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.111.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.112.0	Thank you, President. Mrs. Senserrich, nothing further... Mrs. Senserrich, which I'm commenting on. Nothing further than my intention. I don't threaten anyone, if, you see, I'm a humble deputy. I'm a humble congressman, what happens, I believe what I say, not like you guys who are making up all day. Look, in politics, you have to be prepared for everything, and, above all, what you can't have in politics is so fine skin. When you systematically overstep the democratic rights of Catalan citizens using fiscal data, it comes to me that I am threatening. Man, please. Really, calm down, calm down, I know, that everyone, I'm really telling you, will do us a lot better.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. A separate vote has been requested on points 1 and 7. Therefore, we will vote first on number 1, after 7 and after the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's get started. We're voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number seven. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 63 votes in favour, 69 against and no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on obtaining tax data was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into fiscal policy]] [[302-00113/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry into the government's fiscal policy: [[remorse of the voice]] , presented for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo. Please ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence to continue. [[Pause.]] Mr. De Paramo, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.114.0	Yes, thank you, President. Vice President Junqueras, deputies, deputies, companies... well, why are we presenting this motion? Well, very simple, because we believe that in democracy government presidents have to come face-to-face in parliaments. Basically because of that. For whatever party they are, think what they think, the presidents are all citizens, and therefore they owe it to them, and they have to come to Parliament to give explanations always. And it's legitimate to vote against it. It is legitimate to vote against a president not appearing, as did the fellow Members of Junts pel Si and the CUP yesterday. It's legitimate to block a president's face – it's legitimate. It is also legitimate for the President to hide behind a regulation and behind some Members in order not to come face-to-face. But they will also understand that it is legitimate to say that yesterday it was blocked that in a democracy of the 21st century a president remains hidden and does not dare to come to the house of all Catalans, which is the Parliament of Catalonia. But, look, when someone doesn't face it's that he has something to hide, if not, if the president was completely convinced that what Mr. Vidal said is a lie, he would come here to explain it to all Catalans. But no, he does not dare; he does not dare and he also has accomplices, who are the parliamentary group that gives support..., and, of course, the other parliamentary group that gives support to the Government. But we must accept the results in democracy – we must accept them – even when they are to block a president from coming to explain. And we have to accept those, it is a basic norm of all democracy: to respect the results. Sometimes you win and sometimes you lose. I believe that in the case of yesterday they lost not only all the opposition groups, but also many Catalans who are going to stay without knowing the truth about the Vidal issue at the hands of the President of the Generalitat. But it is: sometimes in democracy you win and sometimes in democracy you lose. What are we going to do? Keep working so that at once in Catalonia you cannot block the appearance of a president, have more deputies, have more support. That is what the parties in democracy must do. I recommend that you do the same in the Congress of Deputies: keep working, and someday, when you leave the mixed group, you may also be able to change the laws. What happens is that you're more of jumping over laws than working. The aim of this motion is to ensure that data from all Catalans has not been submitted or will continue to be used; to ensure that data from all Catalans have not been used for illegal purposes; to ensure that no one has spied or is going to spy on Catalans; that no one has done so or is going to make databases with data illegally from all Catalans; that no communications will be sent, nor have Catalans been sent to choose between good and bad, whether they comply or fail to comply with the legislation. I understand that they will be consistent in paragraph 1 of this motion and will vote against, again, as they did yesterday, for President Puigdemont to come to Parliament to explain and to give his face. I imagine they will be consistent with yesterday's blockade and will again vote no to that point 1. But they have a chance at the rest of the points of the motion. They have an opportunity to explain themselves before that commission of inquiry that we are going to launch; an opportunity that we give them again: from the leaders of the opposition we give them again an opportunity, Mr Junqueras, in addition to that attendance and the questions that we have asked you, that some you answer them, those you like, and others you do not, we give you another opportunity to vote in favour of this motion to clarify the situation even more. Because if you answer the questions, if the president comes to face, if you vote in favour of these motions, we will not ask you again about the Vidal case; but if you do not answer the questions, block the president from coming to face and vote against the motions of the entire opposition, you will understand that we will ask you every day until you answer. Therefore, they have a chance again: take advantage of it, this time – take advantage of it. It is a way to clarify everything that has happened with these statements of Mr Santiago Vidal, that we remember that he was for three months in eleven acts throughout Catalonia, promoted by his party, and that no one from his party raised his hand in one act and said: « This gentleman is lying. We therefore believe that you must take advantage of this opportunity that we once again give you from the opposition, which will help to clarify the situation and that we do not have to ask you more. Amendments have also been accepted by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and by the Socialist Party of Catalonia, and we believe that this is an opportunity for us to know once and for all whether Mr Vidal was lying or whether Mr Vidal was telling the truth. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.115.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Next, to defend the papers presented, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.116.0	Thank you again, President. So, as Mr De Páramo said, the Ciutadans Group presents this motion after the inquiry it made with regard to the statements of the Vidal judge. Since the Socialist Group, which seemed good to us, or seemed good to us most of the themes and points they raised, many of these complementary to the motion that has all just presented itself in the previous point, seemed to us to lack an important element, which is to which it refers to our concern. We believe that, despite the late appearance, the government did not appear late, did not petition itself, did not do so urgently on such a difficult issue as were these statements by Judge Vidal..., which seems to us that, after the denial made by Vice President Junqueras to the Committee on Institutional Affairs, which would be warm, bearing in mind that they were lied to, right? , or he has denied these claims..., as in the least, what would be hot is that the government, therefore, initiate legal actions against Mr. Vidal. Basically because Mr. Vidal came to say that the government is doing illegal things; that's to say, of course... it's telling them that they've committed a crime. And, therefore, if I do things right, I don't let a person..., not anyone else but a judge and an exsenator say I commit crimes in the use and in the pocket that my government develops. It seems incredible to me that in the previous point the government has voted, and the group that gives it support, against a similar slogan presented by Ciutadans. It seems incredible to me that the government does not want to take any legal action against a person who puts himself in "discussing the task being done by the government; not because you are doing it wrong or well, that this would be perhaps more a task that makes the opposition, to tell them that they don't do the right thing, is that the saying is that they don't do them legally. And this seems incredible to us in a state of right and in the situation we find ourselves at these moments. Therefore, what we are asking with the concern we are presenting to the Ciutadans Group is that the Government, denying these statements, and therefore making it clear that they are not, initiate the relevant legal actions against this person. That would be logical, any country and democratic state, that would happen. We don't know who the reason for this isn't. You can have some ideas, can't you? But I'd rather almost not tell them here. So much as it's not because they don't want to listen to Vidal judge, because Vidal judge knows a lot of things, or he knows other things, or he could leave them with the red face of shame that we could feel if we listened to some things. Maybe because it turns out that in the end it can be true – I don't say it –, it could be true that you have a guide, that year they repeat in their actions, right? , as Mr. Coscubala says, a guide that passes him Republican Left, because in the end the acts summons Republican Left. So, if not, why don't you explain it to us, Mr. Junqueras? But what had you done, Mr. Vidal? Why, it's clear, in the end, if this gentleman had a guide and explained it, to cheer him up, maybe he'd put more sauce on it, huh? I'm sure. Well, who gave it to him? Was it a guide? Did he? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, What was the matter with this gentleman? It is sometimes, you, with your few explanations, that this person seems to have gotten involved. You say a few, because you say no, no, no, three times... man, you have to hear that it is not to give guarantees of explanation. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He said "no, no, no, that's not true, that's what he said. So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, five hours and a half in which he talked about many things and left many things unsaid. In any case, he said three times he didn't. All right. But we believe that he did not explain what was going on during so many sessions of acts organized for the Republican Left for the territory. I don't know what your Junts have to think about the yes, huh? In any case, those who are not from the Republican Left. But in any case, I would be very worried about the things you say, and especially the things you see the government do or don't do. And, I repeat, in the context of the Tax Agency, that is, where fiscal data is working and where it is working, in theory, so, to have a state structure prepared for when September 1st seems to disconnect, or at least that's what the Lord Saved says, which is the other protagonist of this film. Honestly, you should do the right thing, we should make sure that it's fessin' fine, that it's fessin' legal, because we're all a little quieter. Our task was on this line. Listen to me, if you deny it, then, please, present the appropriate legal actions, because, if not, your vote against, as you have done a while ago, makes us doubt – that this Lord has lied. We're being dubted. And with so many doubts, of course, in the end one thinks that they're sure to store things for us. And as we have these doubts, so at the end we have to finish presenting these motions, before the PSC and now the City. And that's why we expect to listen to you on a commission of inquiry. But, actually, Vice President, what we're most concerned about is that you don't do things right. And it's that they put us... yes, they bring us to the end of the street without having anything prepared, fooling people and putting the country in a difficult situation. I hope you don't allow this, because that would be a very big, unworthy political irresponsibility. So, this is our goal. We believe that Mr De Páramo will accept it, but we already know that it will not be approved, because this vote was taken a while ago, and I hope that he will give the appropriate explanations of why he did not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.117.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.118.0	Thank you, Madam President. It costs a little not to repeat ourselves in two motions that go one after the other; therefore, I repeat what I said before: we will give support to all those motions, plantings, which allow us to prevent this from being false. And, in this sense, it's the approach we've made to the motion of the Citizen Group. We won't vote for it all right, we've already talked to Fernando de Páramo, for what reason I'm going to explain. Let the things that I said before I needed..., our group needs to believe that Mr. Santi Vidal lied, among other things, because it would be very hard to think that one is in a country where his government is able to do these things. But I insist on it again: so far the explanations given are so poor as a government denial that, I say again, every time you have less credibility, from this point of view. And when the appearance of the same Santi Vidal is denied, and when the appearance of the same President of the Government is denied, he is putting much more doubts on this issue. I have... I don't think the one who explained it was true, even though sometimes listening to Mr. Sergio Santamaría I think it's true... I think the only possibility that there is a part of the truth in which Santi Vidal said it is on the subject that the Government of the Generalitat has already obtained the advice of the secret services of another country for its agency of intelligence, because... That can be true, can't it? , because it can become true and even all that has been successful, the first operation of this intelligence agency with the support of a foreign power, because that would only explain the interventions of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, which is clear that you have to be a double agent of the Government of the Government infiltrated from the People's Party, because on the contrary they do not agree with you the work so wonderful that you do them, because you feel it to them not erosion, you feed them with this imagination, right? , of this PP and of this Spain as it is, because it extrapolates so much things that in the end it turns out that maybe yes, maybe it is a double agent infiltrated for this agency of security with foreign support. That said, see, no, it's that you're very skilled. It is not Cardinal Mazzarino, "simulates and hides, but there is nothing after him, from this point of view, politically. That being said, and focusing on this issue, we have already raised it to the Citizens' Group..., we will support the first part with the transaction that has raised us. We believe that the explanations of the President of the Generality should not only be in relation to what has happened, but also to guarantees of the future. We will support the issue – and we have raised it ourselves, we have raised a point, in this sense – that if the Government of the Government says that this is a lie, bearing in mind that it is not a normal lie, but that it is a lie with which the commission of crimes is accused, and this from a legal point of view is the criminal type of slander, that is, the government has slandered itself by imputing the commission of heavy crimes, because, if it is lied, the imputation of heavy crimes is a slander, which the Government can do less, logically, is defend itself, from this point of view. And that has nothing to do with Mr Santi Vidal's defense in his condition of city. The ones that we have defended the Holy Vidal in all its trajectory, when life in the area of Justice for Democracy has been complicated, when it turns out that, moreover, it has legitimately set out to prepare a writing of Catalan constitution, and when we have been persecuted we have given it support, we believe that this does not cover, absolutely, that what has passed can have certain consequences. And we don't think this is a solution. The judicial issue is never the solution, but there is a way – there is a way – to resolve this, and it is so simple, Mr. Vice President – it is you who have the highest level at this time of government in this room – as you accept two things: that Mr. Santi Vidal will appear and that the President of the Government will appear. With these two appearances it may be that, if they give serious explanations, the subject will be closed; meanwhile, you must understand that the government's simple assertion that what Mr Santi Vidal has said is lied cannot be any argument that we have, because the Rajoy-Puigdemont meeting was also lied, and in the end it was true. You have a problem from now on, huh? I've told them before and I'll tell them again: they've lost all credibility. Every time you deny something, you can doubt it. They must regain their credibility, and this is not easily recovered. You gambled to use double language, double life, one thing and the other, and, of course, that has consequences. It can be fooled many times at a time, many times at a time, but many times at the same time, even for you it is an objective a little ambition. Therefore, we will support the discussions that have taken place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.119.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Sí, has the word Mr Antoni Castellà.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.120.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... obsessed. The definition of 'obsession' is an 'animal disorder produced by a fixed idea that with constant persistence assaults the mind. And this thought or feeling always – always –, in disagreement with conscious thought, with reality or with truth, but, despite everything, it persists and boils everything down to it. In fact, obsession is a ‘preoccupation that dominates and grabs intellectual attention and that usually even accompanied by a painful feeling of anxiety. [[Some applause.]] I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this young man is the description of an anxious obsession with Mr Santi Vidal and the secessionists. And you're obsessed, and that makes you anxious, and that's not good. Because, besides, when you're anxious and obsessed and you can't devote to anything else, you don't even have time "to have free time, as Mr. Santamaría said." And I'll try to do that, so don't pass, because I don't think it's good that there are MEPs anxiously or obsessed. Because probably all of his anxiety about what he's going through has been denied for himself, but probably too fast, in the normal logic of party parliamentarianism. Because you probably expected, as in all areas, that Mr. Santi Vidal would not deny anything, and it turns out that he denied it, and perhaps, too quickly. And you're sure that you were convinced that he would not resign, because here he never resigns, and he resigned, and therefore takes this for granted. By the way, I'm saying, there's no kind of conspiracy. And to speak, some Members, of conspiracy, when we have, and will still carry what, the whole of the Catalonia operation? Home, for God's sake. And talking about corruption? Home, corruption... [[Greetings.]] Mr. Santamaría, if you donate the world cup to corruption, you will win the Popular Party, but you will win one year, and another, and another and another. So, I don't think so. And they hoped the president wouldn't talk. Because, once, he had resigned, the president of the Generality, respects a senator who has resigned, he would not have to talk. And we've had almost two monographic control sessions. So, he talked. I suppose they expected me not to attend any of the government. The vice president appeared for five hours and the secretary of Hisenda, for three hours. Or that you don't do any concrete actions of offices. And the activity of offices, for all its tranquility, and this will also be anxious..., is that of offices, therefore, the Data Protection Authority is auditing all data managed by the agency. Therefore, peace of mind, that things are good. What we don't want to talk about in these very motions. I think there's a different example between this young man and the old man. In the previous motion it was asked to donate information. Transparency? The whole world. That's why we've come to an agreement, and as long as we have. Probably Congresswoman Romero..., the obsession maybe, a little; the anxiety, no longer; no longer, because we have approved giving all kinds of information. But in this, we were willing, Mr De Paramo, to come to an agreement. In fact, in the points where you, with all intent, and it's logical and legitimate, talk about ensuring that we don't do irregular things, or that the government doesn't do irregular things, we raise issues with the simple objective of positivizing. And the answer was no, we haven't reached an agreement. That's to say, it's legitimate, but there's probably no interest in the young lady's approval, but in making a manifest, I think, this obsession. And it is in this sense that we will vote against this young man. Because it's obvious that there's no doubt, and they don't have to have any doubt, that all the actions that this government carries are fanciful depending on the law in force, it would just be missing, like it can't be any other way. And you have all the parliamentary control to know that this is it. The Government's will will be absolutely transparent. And we'll make it happen. So as I hope, a few months from now, when we make the reference, that we will, if we win the yes, that this Member hopes that this will be so, and change the legal mark and it will rise from this country, I hope that, just as we do now, you also respect that legal mark. And I hope they don't do insubmission of what that Parliament will be doing, which is no more than Catalonia's, if it wins the yes. Thank you, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castellà. Next, to fix his position, has the word Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.122.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, I thank you for staying in plenary. Let's see, it's gonna be complicated to focus the dialectic and parliamentary shot, huh? I say this because you take it all like this, to the first: "The shot! And he says, "Uy, they're coming this way. [[Rialles.]] The dialectic and parliamentary shot. This is a kind of motion, an inquiry, where, in the end, both Mr Coscubiela and Mr Castellà, which I thank you for, quote me textually. Well, Mr. Coscubiela, with proper sportsmanship from the point of view of resources to irony, man, I beg you, at last, not to compare me with Mr. Santi Vidal, please, eh? I don't have an agent, and I don't have a double, do I? [[Rialles.]] So, if it confuses me, it leaves me in a very bad place. Mr. Castellà... I do want to make myself a little more serious. Its 3_per_cent – its 3_per_cent – yes, yes, that of its conglomerate, is not a 3_per_cent abstract; it has affected the people of the street. Innova case : prostheses expired and laying hands to collect commissions. That's where I leave it, huh? I mean, don't you come here with the retaliatory of cases of corruption, because yours is inhuman, because it has directly affected people. Take note. And in any case, I will already take the dictionary to look for the obsession, but I will tell you one thing: you continue; sick obsession, that of your process, which is finished. I'll get to the point, if I can. Mr. Junqueras, you have in Madrid a spokesman – and, finally, you know who I mean – the incline Gabriel Rufián, who has told that Councillor Romeva, responsible for Transparency, does things that he cannot explain. And its director general talks about ‘hiding information from the enemy. What a fabric; or, rather, a troop. However, you're going to have a golden opportunity to get out of all this rifirrafe: the committee of inquiry promoted by our group, along with Citizens and the PSC, will help you get out of boredom. Mr Junqueras, repeat with me: transparency. Isn't he capable? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Come in. [[Rialles.]] Look, if they prevent their proper functioning, they have very little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.123.0	Please, this isn't a dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.124.0	... of Democrats. No, no, I do it to exercise; that is, I thank you for doing it. [[Rialles.]] If they prevent their proper functioning they have very few democrats, I repeat, although after listening yesterday to the absent Member Rovira, I tell you that they no longer have any democrats left, but, well – you know what I mean. In any case, acknowledge that they have gone from braking. And that [[the timer riu]] – and I laugh, huh? – who said they wanted to do things right. Fuck, come on. Some exercise, huh? , of democratic pulcritus. Look, engage in real work on people's vital affairs, but don't bet on subversion. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. But why are we going to walk here with euphemisms? You're betting on it. Otherwise, I insist, the bench is going to get small. And that's gonna be rule of law, huh? It won't be anything else. Look, Mr Junqueras: hospital emergencies, schools, dependencies, social services, unemployment, pensions, infrastructure, the financing system. Come on, you don't have a job there to put on your elbows, huh? And yet, you keep loosing with the cama – a cama like a paid house – of disconnection. Mr. Coscubiela said it, it seemed to me, and in that I point out, though with nuances: never – never – a few fooled so many for so long. But the cake is being discovered. And, in any case, that's the only achievement of the independence operation, that's the real operation you've put us all into. Look, I advise you to start managing frustration, because in politics the lack of prudence, balance and measure is a disadvantage, and you know what I'm talking about. They have set up a strategy of clear and manifest provocation for one purpose only: to make the victims. It is his constant and permanent bullshit, which is also written in the most rancid manual of populism, his nineteenth-century nationalism. They say that the suffering of the people is the fault of the oppression of the state and call to break the chains. Look, I tell you that the problems of Catalans are solved with responsible rulers who think and care about people. Fighting tax fraud is very important – you remember it permanently – a priority. Yes, Mr. Junqueras, but lower taxes on Catalans, too. And to this last, you refuse in round – in round, you refuse to lower taxes. Look, are you going to spend $400 million on an illegal referendum? Let it go, and set it aside to reduce waiting lists in our hospitals. Will they allocate thousands of euros to set up their own estate? Stop it, remove barracks and build schools. Are they opening embassies? Leave it, and dedicate it to the unit to assist our elders. In short, stop asphyxiating Catalan society, intervene and lead. Because freedom, Mr Junqueras, is only missed when it is lost, and with your government that scenario I see it very, very close. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Next, has the word Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.126.0	Good morning, everybody. Mr. Santamaría, you all calculate it the same, you're not very powerful in mathematics. Why, if the reference is 5, up to 400 what is it? The box's good? [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, we're still talking about what happens in Catalonia. Mr De Páramo, in order not to want to talk about the reference, the process, the disconnection, the breakup, there are not bad people, the monogram that we are having for a few weeks ago, because of the Vidal case we did not speak by active and passive: we did not speak in committee, we did not speak in plenary, we did not speak in communication media. And we have already set our position: we have already said that the appearances that have taken place seem sufficient to explain what has happened and we do not want to contribute more to a regrettable spectacle, to a permanent theatricalization, because we basically believe that it contributes to the degradation of this institution, this Parliament. If you want to degrade this institution, we can talk about it every day; but we will not contribute to this, we will not feed this media. And it is more, if we follow this morning's debate initiated by the People's Party and its inquiry into security policies, then the day you, Mr De Páramo, take legal action against a party, against a deputy who lies that democracy is neither torture nor torture, denying the judgments of the courts that you yourself defend, then we can talk about legality and we can talk about democracy. Until then, we can't do it. And it's more the day you publicly condemn a 3.6-year prison sentence for a rapper, Valtonyc, who said: "All the Bourbons are corrupt– a great truth: "All the Bourbons are corrupt–, when you as Urdangarin have been absolved and will not go into prison, the day you start legal action and condemn it publicly, so it will be fantastic, because we can talk about legality and democracy, but you haven't yet done so. [[Greetings.]] The young lady doesn't talk about fiscal policy, and we'd love to. Well, everyone knows, we love talking about fiscal policy; in fact, progressive taxation, outsourcing contracts, we could talk about job insecurity, we could talk about public management of benefits and services. But it's about everything that's inside this young man, the same way he doesn't talk about data protection. What you want is to endorse an unjust sentence against the ANC and against Ómnium that will order you to pay 240,000_euro each for the giant, when the Catalan Civil Society, from which you are ex-members, or members, and many friends, therefore, also sent mails to serve a database of data that we don't know where you came from, and this seems fantastic, this data protection is wonderful. That's what you're defending, isn't it? Because, if not, we didn't just hear it. This motion that you are talking about is the control of a sovereign institution, which you are talking about is the autonomy that you may want to suspend, it speaks of the reference that you do not want, a completely undemocratic position, with an interested and partisan interpretation of the Spanish Constitution, this one that you defend. Because that's what they're doing: here we're not talking about legality, here we're talking about interested interpreters and supporters of their Constitution. And we reaffirm ourselves. That has been said before by Mr Carles Riera: this Parliament and this Government must make the necessary decisions to complete the mandate of 27 September, and this implies that the reference must be made, that there is no reason not to do so, and that it will be binding. This adjective does them a lot for: it will be binding. Yes, it will be binding, to which we have committed ourselves. This means that if it wins, this country will break with laws and institutions of the Spanish State and will have to have the capacity to self-manage itself in accordance with democratic rules. And, in this sense, from here, I mean, lay down, a time of legalistic and constitutionalistic scrolls, and start the campaign of no. If it's very easy, or so on, let's do it in a healthy way, in a constructive way. They did it to Quebec: there was a twenty-and-five-page document that had the bell of yes and the bell of no, it's about sorting. I write twenty-five pages with reason because Catalonia is staying with the Spanish State; that's democracy, that's what she knows. We write the twenty-five pages to break with this Spanish State which, we have said many times before, is all the less democratic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.127.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the parable of Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.128.0	Well, thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, Mr Castellà is right: we are obsessed with transparency – you are absolutely right, Mr Castellà. We get a lot of anxiety about corruption, we get a lot of anxiety about lack of transparency, they're absolutely right. We are genuine obsessives of transparency, and we are delighted that the monotheme in Parliament during all these days has been transparency, because if we have to wait for you of Convergence, with the embargoed seats, to talk about transparency or the lords of Republican Left, with the Vidal case, here we do not talk about transparency nor five_minutes, in the Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] So, as I say, enchanted. We are obsessed with transparency – we are obsessed – because in this Parliament it seems that on that side of the benches you have never been obsessed with transparency: 3 per cent, Palau case, Mr Vidal accusing you directly to the government. Clearly, transparency has never mattered to you. We, yes, we do, and that's why we ask them, and that's why we're going to ask them every day until they give us an answer, because you always apologize that Mr. Junqueras was appearing five_hours. Well, I can be five hours without saying anything, too. What's going on? By weight? Is it for the time of attendance or the content of the attendance? Ask yourself that question, because I can ask Mr Junqueras ten questions and if he does not answer any questions... So let us focus on the government's answers and not on the time the government spends answering; it seems to me to be something fundamental in the parliamentary debate and that is first of all..., of common sense. But, as I tell you, you are very uncomfortable when you have to talk about transparency. We have a Transparency Adviser who has to draw the attention of Parliament's Bureau, where you have a majority. Imagine how far we've come. And he says he is the Transparency Advisor, and refuses to give information to Members when they are asked to do so. And Mr Puigdemont refuses to appear in the Parliament of Catalonia. Well, how are we not going to be obsessed with transparency? Of course, he's obsessed with us every day. Simply to position with the amendments, very brief. Thanking the Catalonian Group Yes, it is Pot..., we would have liked you to vote the whole motion without complexes, but we already know that sometimes that costs you. And to the Socialist Group, I also thank you for your willingness to reach agreements and for having accepted that very important amendment, which says something as obvious as that when you are accused of crimes, what you have to do is go to the courts to report it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.129.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.130.0	President, for direct remarks by Mrs Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.131.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.132.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Boya, look, I'm going to tell you this frankly: the morale, to your hosts. Please stop insulting me to the right and the right. And when they talk about the 'caisse be', they must refer to theirs, right? To the hidden items that are in the budgets that you have supported, right? I mean, that's it, huh? , those are the times of the new policy, those are the times you intend to carry out. Well, look, what do you want me to say? You're wrong, and you just screwed up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.133.0	Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.134.0	For direct allusions of the deputy Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.135.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.136.0	Three, three words: "Sergio, be strong. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.137.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.138.0	To ask for the separate vote from points 1 and 3, which from our group can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.139.0	Separate votes have been requested from points 1 and 3, but they can be voted together – 1 and 3. Does it look okay to you? [[Pause.]] So we shall now proceed to the vote. We'll vote points 1 and 3 together, and then we'll vote the rest of the vote, okay? [[Pause.]] We put points 1 and 3 to the vote. The vote begins. Points 1 and 3 were rejected by 63 votes to 72, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Ministry on fiscal policy was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 72 against and 11 abstentions. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.140.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the criteria for assessing job losses]] [[302-0112/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the criteria for the assessment of job losses presented by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot. To expose her, Mr. Marc Vidal has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.141.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. I see that the councilman has not yet arrived, his team has... look, today, that it is an anniversary of infamy memory, where in a parliament the imposition and the treasuries prevail, I would celebrate, in a parliamentary like this, the dialect and the word. For this reason, I want to begin by thanking the good disposition, negotiation of this motion, on the part of the people who have submitted papers. And, more than that, how courteous it does not take away the courage, to aggravate, also, the flexibility of the Government to find agreements that allow it to advance in the sense of the young man, that it is only another to improve the conditions of work from the perspective of salvation. We wanted to place in the inquiry the existence of a phenomenon that came to be called presentism, which is to be present at the work center, without having guaranteed some good conditions to work. The causes of this phenomenon are diverse, but there is evidence, which is their aggravation in times of crisis. There is another evidence, that it is the incidence of the different reforms and regulations, that have resulted in job insecurity and loss of work, and that they have fostered behaviour, both of workers and of the same companies, as well as of control bodies, that do not always conform to the criteria of working with maximum safety and health, and with adequate prevention. Therefore, the first thing we ask, in this young man, is that we are doing a study of the incidence of this presentness, that we are analyzing the causes and that we are proposing a prevention program because, obviously, it is not healthy to work ill, but it is not effective, neither alone for the same place of work nor for the enterprise that offers it. It is true that, despite the various causes that may exist in this phenomenon of presentism, we have focused the objectives of better in two elements, on which we can have an impact, because they are likely to be able to improve, and because with some changes it is possible to increase the perception of the quality of the service, from the perspective of the user, that it is a patient. One is the role of mutuals, with the ability to decide on the contingencies for malalty, and the other is ICAM, in its assessment paper of fitness to return to work after a malalty. And that means we're questioning these two bodies? Absolutely. It means that we see some realities, observed by users, that if we are able to internalize them, they can improve the performance of the service. That is to say, we do not believe or say that nobody does the work badly, but we are sure that if we make proposals in positive, we can put together elements that will allow us to do it better. So, for one thing, we ask for a public mechanism to control guarantees of the high proposals made by the mutuals, providing support, argumentation, and, for the other, we claim to eliminate in the agreement between Social Security and the Department of Health, the economic criteria at the time of assessing the incapacity for work. They are two obstacles that if overcome would greatly facilitate the path to which it values and to which it is valued. After that, we present some points that have to do more with the type of assessment, considering it not only as a medical act, but as a recovery process, which is directly related to a certain place of work and therefore relates to the conditions that it is returned to work, to the knowledge of the characteristics of this place, and therefore to the coordination necessary with the other bodies that are related to occupational safety. And also, the important assessment paper that can be made in relation to the causes, whether work or non-work, of contingency. We propose, therefore, to change the direction of focus, to focus more on medical assessment, not so much as a strict act of salvation, but as a process of occupational health. And, finally, there is a group of items that focus on the user, that is a malalta person, that wants to stop being malalta and that wants to work again. And here we focus a lot on the rights of this person, on his support in this process of returning to work. Elements as simple as not having to make a reassessment of the possible low medication within the hundred-and-a-half days after the high donor for the inspection, or, so much as feeling like being able to accompany the consultation, facilitating the delivery of the medical report, establishing an out-of-court mediation system when it has not agreed, improving the attention to the user, or facilitating the recovery of the displacements, which are questions that involve a necessary review of the Charter of Rights and Rights, and that will, of course, make them, if we approve and put them on the way, a more useful, social, and transparent evaluation system that is the ultimate objective of this motion. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. To defend the papers presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Pol Gibert has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.143.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon to everyone, also to the people who have come to the rostrum of the plenary, councillor, councillor... We have a young man here, to the plenary of the parliament, who is a subject that has been around for various reasons, during various motions that we have seen in this debate of the parliament, because today we are addressing it in full, as is the subject of work breaks, and also the subject of professional malalties. We have a young man, which we have to say, he has a marked technical character, deep down, which sometimes seemed to me to be more a regulation than a young man, but we believe that he also addresses very sensitive issues and that he could do it with some concreteness. We are dealing with a subject that is of vital importance to many people and that directly affects the lives of workers in this country, and that, therefore, is also a step forward that we are also grateful to the Group of Catalonia Yes, I can bring it to this Parliament. In the later year, to provide some data, we have observed a growing name of declared professional malalities. And say, 'cause we always know that the name they don't say is a lot bigger. Increase a 16_per_cent the name respects at last year. I'm talking statewide. A figure that is already very, very worrying, but it is still more the trend change that we have seen in the last two years. Before we see a growing name of bass, of professional malalities with low, and now we see it backwards: a growing name of professional malalities that do not involve a bass. They're less than 50 per cent when they were 85 per cent years ago. It's triple the name of people who don't take the low when they're sick. What's going on? I mean, aren't the diseases who they were anymore? Are they more lei? Do they affect their people better? Do people support them better? No, there is simply a new face of the labour market which is said to be precarious. And, in addition, if this is what we have a system where we find the mutuals at the top of everything, then obviously, it does not give priority to a mutual with the priority of a worker who is ill. Entering the young lady, first of all, it should be noted that we have a problem in the derivation of accidents at work to the public health system. That's obvious. It's been recognizable several times, and it's a cost reduction that comes from the public system, and once again, we pay the same. This aspect we believe would be highly recommendable if the primary care meth with information on which the person who is attentive and who can derive it from the mutual system, in the case of a work environment pathology, works. This is a big leak, system leak. Also mention the lack of coordination between some basic elements in this process. We're talking about prevention services, labor and health authorities, labor health units... And here, between these mechanisms, we see how often there is no coordination. To prioritise and establish what role each of them has and to provide the occupational safety unit with tasks to coordinate the whole process. We will celebrate that this is the case, and that it has been collected in the final text and that the speaker has been able to incorporate it. We also regret, as it cannot be in any other way, some aspect that has not been incorporated; but, at all events, our group will give support to the youth, because we believe that we are lying down, or that there is a little more, to a better world for the workers and workers of this country. We therefore thank him for his proposal and will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.144.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Next, has the words of Mr. Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.145.0	Yes..., deputies, deputies, president, councillor, councillor... You ended the last of your interventions the other day, Mr. Vidal, Mr. Marc Vidal... – because it's a surname that today has also been used a lot and I don't want you to accuse me of anything here, on the other side, of monotheme... [[laughs and remorse of the eyes]] , therefore, Mr. Marc Vidal – said that he wanted a Catalan institute of more social and useful medical assessments. We agree, totally agree. We believe that we need to reorient an institute which, as you yourself have already explained, is at the confluence of the most sensitive policies that Parliament has to deal with: jobs and health care. We believe that ICAM, by its natural nature, and to find itself, precisely, where it is, is already a social institute or is already a social institution, but we think that, above all, it must be a useful institution, and therefore we think that it must be effective on the basis of the objective for which the institute exists. We agree that ICAM is moving away from the objectives for which it should exist, and we believe that this motion can help correct precisely this situation and make ICAM more useful and effective socially. That's why we argue that we will support a good part of the motion that is presented, as well as some considerations or corrections that we consider to be absolutely necessary. You also spoke, Mr. Vidal, of how the crisis, the last few years, has woven an ICAM that many do not want. That's right. The out of control of these last few years has greatly valued the fact of having a place of work, and, unfortunately, this feeling was accompanied by a loss of rights which, moreover, in a work mark like ours, was still, and is, exponentially more read. The combination of our labour market, and in particular the duality of our labour market, accompanied by a lack of courageous reforms towards a model of equal opportunities, has increased us from the ability to fight against precariousness and has installed us in a record of left-handedness, intolerable labor disorders and before phenomena like labor present, as you very well have commented and explained before. This followed the reality that, in the end, it also put us on the table of two guidelines..., allow me to say, two policy guidelines that have left the medical professional unsuitable for the correct performance of his assessment work at ICAM. We know that there is a part of the proposals that Catalonia presents to us Yes, it is possible that they can consider a situation that really only a change, we believe, of a product model, will help us overcome. We appreciate the willingness to deal with some of the proposals that we, therefore, did not see clearly and that we have used to point out and present some issues. We believe, for example, that we cannot close the collaboration, from our point of view, in the medical evaluation of a specialist, even though it is external to the public system, by efficiency, because we want the best of whom you serve and because sometimes it is the fastest way to give an answer. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We believe that the review should be kept at ICAM, after a high; since it is a mechanism that gets pressured at the primary school, and, if an appropriate period is agreed, which is what we finally found in the text, it can improve the general attention, both to workers and to businesses. We also think that ICAM's meths must have time to make a report, which can, including, come or come to court. We do not think that the immediateness, in this case, is perhaps the most useful or prudent adjective and that, therefore, we also think that we should introduce this issue and we think that this vision that you have and that is totally legitimate should be changed, but that we, in this case, do not share. We agree on the need to achieve a new agreement between the National Institute of Social Security and ICAM. Totally in agreement with the fact of finishing with these adjectives or economic arguments that currently exist. We agree with a medical bass assessment system that serves because a worker is able to recover without, but also helps us to lengthen any suspicions about him and also about businesses. That's important. In short, in the end, let's wait for changes in the model, and let's wait for that to be used to make these changes in the medical assessment. We are hopeful, indeed; and, especially, we are, after listening to the Councillor on the other day, to begin to address the need for change in the right to the protection of salvation recognized in Article 43 of the Constitution. This Constitution, which is of all people and which, for us, seems to us to be a good path and a good full road that we hope will bring to fruition. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.146.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Next, there is the words of Mrs Alba Vergés, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.147.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, counsel, and also all the people who are following us here in Parliament and who are also following us from home, because it is an important issue for a lot, a lot of people, I want to thank the Member Marc Vidal and his group for the truth, not only because of the fact that we are carrying this young man, this debate, but also because of the whole process that we have been able to put to the end in negotiating items to get to many transactions that we have come to, that make it possible not just the debate, but also a broad, solvent agreement that involves us and that deals with us. It's not the easiest thing to bring to Parliament, it's complex, simple people to get to these broad agreements, because it's talking about salvation in their more global conception. When we see that salvation, or better said, the lack of salvation, affects all aspects of life; while working for us it affects our work, that we are used to taking care of most of our time and that we are conditioned by our life plans – and the councillor knows that too. And we have to recognize that he managed all these aspects, that they don't just have to see with the diagnosis, it's complex. And the young lady still does it this way, so she starts to recognize that it's not easy, but that it has to go forward. And that's why we appreciate it. The question is that we often want to give solutions with answers to these complex problems, of this complexity, with simple speeches and solutions. And, this, I think, is a mistake that we often fall into this Parliament, but this young man doesn't like, and I really appreciate it. And that's what makes it really useful, this guy today. And that's why I want to focus my speech on what we're doing in this Parliament, which is coming to these agreements to make it happen in this sense. We had to find a way to take this complexity and make it simple; not simple, but simple. And the motion wants to correct dysfunctions, it wants to improve a complex management of medical assessments. And let it be clear that it is not necessary, as the honourable Member has said, that everything that is done is wrong, because it is not; we see it with many ICAM workers and workers, that they do their job, obviously, every day with the soul and the implication of doing it well. But this young man also wants to pull his wrists at those furniture that cost moving, to return to the starting point, which we share, more than that, with a large majority, in this Parliament, which is to give the best service to people and, above all, to guarantee their rights. And I think that here is where I have to appreciate, too, the effort and, above all, the government's willingness to move positions, to improve and, above all, to explore – to explore – what we want, because we ultimately share the objective. Here I give thanks to the General Directorate of Health Ordinance and to the General Directorate of Medical Evaluations, to whom I put names and surnames, which are the Neus Rams and the Sunday Lidia. For example, can I also review the right and right card now? So, yes; so, som-hi. We see that users can go with each other and that this is a guarantee for a better appreciation; because, in fact, in health care, the fact of going with one another can be an added value for the same professional, as it is, obviously, for the same person, because it gives him security, gives him comfort during the evaluation. We also look at how we can do it to improve the fact that the user can have in the shortest possible time and with the best form the medical report of his/her appreciation, avoiding displacements, etc., as well as looking to improve the situation process for the appreciation to ICAM and all these aspects. And, above all, look – he said it, didn't he? – let's look at it; let's not leave people in a situation of lack of protection for a mediation and review of the case when you don't agree, because this happens; we have mechanisms to get to the least possible court, always respecting that there is this right, obviously. And better coordination with organizations that have a relationship with work safety, as you have also pointed out, which makes it possible to value much better the suitability for a specific job place. I shall return to thank you, therefore, to the Member of Parliament Marc Vidal to listen, gather and work on the text he himself presented; to enrich it and reach this majority agreement which I believe will be present in this Parliament, which does what he said before, that work in Parliament will be more useful today than ever before. Finally, we also stress that we have fought for, finally, being able to eliminate from the new agreement between the INSS and the Government of Catalonia the unjust economic criteria at the time of assessing temporary or permanent incapacity for work. And all this – all this – that deals with the motion, it has cost a lot; but who was to say it too, with so many debates that we have had, so many meetings, so many meetings, so many finds, that in such a complex and sensitive subject, in the inquiry and today we would do this debate will be and, above all, that we would come to agree, among all, solutions, in which the Government is involved at the very least with an age not to fail to value the work of anyone, but to build better and transform, if necessary, something that we do not do very well. I am left with his words: more useful, more social and more transparent evaluation system. I repeat, thank you very much. And very pleased to be able to say that the Group of Together for Yes today we give total support to this motion. Hey.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.148.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. [[Some applause.]] Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.149.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. The process is a great novel of Kafka, in which is presented the solitude of the city before the bureaucratic castle of the Administration. And this..., and the process is also what you can find many citizens and citizens of Catalonia when they go through a process of medical revision of work downloads, which they see as a little bit of bureaucratic castle that they don't know, that angun, that makes them right for and that they don't know how to get out. And, therefore, we also want to thank, as the other groups have done, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the deputy Marc Vidal who presented this young man to us. You started with a memorial... I thought you were commemorating something else, because it's been 30 years, you. And so we also want to congratulate them. And it's a good way to celebrate them, which is a young lady that all groups say will be very helpful, and the Deputy of Junts said it especially for the Yes. And I repeat what the others have said: it is a well-oriented measure, aimed at humanizing the system. That's the big pocket we've got ahead of us, isn't it? Some say: "No, we have to change the system in general. I..., what we have to do is, as the physicists say, corrode all the dimensions of the system so that they spin another shot around the person. And that's what you, so you proposed to us today, step by step, because, as the Member said, it's very complicated. That is to say, of course, here we find ourselves with a difficulty: we are talking about thousands and thousands of people, and there must be, of course, a regulation – a regulation –, some procedures, some standards, some protocols. And we find this universal rule and then that every case is different and every situation is absolutely unique. I, then, how do they combine this singularity of each case? With the need to establish general protocols it is difficult to combine. We have to move between the col·lapse that would provoke hyperpersonalized attention and the thrill of hyperstandardized attention, right? And, therefore, I think I walk a little bit, saying: "We have a system that we must try to see what steps we take to humanize it more, to serve the citizens better. You describe some problems here, don't you? For example, fixed and rigid terms. Clearly, a person is told: "You must decide whether or not to reintegrate. But a person who has gone through a severe depression may need two more months, or maybe three, or maybe fifteen days or maybe before he could, right? And, therefore, such rigid terms make it difficult to properly assess situations. There are few progressive categories, huh? , are few categories to apply to the plurality of situations. Another important point: the lack of follow-up in the transition. It's true, of course, here we pass from a person who is low, who may be a year and a half ago who doesn't climb the job, and they say, "Well, now you're going back there and back to 100 percent, right? Clearly, it's going from everything to nothing, it's going into the jungle, another shot. And we need to conduct follow-up proceedings. And I think that businesses sometimes don't know how to do it, because, of course, they get there... it's a problem for the person, it's a problem for the business, it's a problem... I, then, the ICAM and the Generalitat, therefore, also have to do this follow-up process. We, therefore, will give support to almost every point, because they were going to ask for a study of the situation, which is always good. Well, sometimes she said, "We don't know what to do, we think a commission, don't we? So, let's ask for a study. But, well, you say, "A three-month study. Well, it's pretty focused. Then, to ensure that the medical judge has as his fundamental criteria, effectively, the medical and labor judge, and not other criteria. Also strengthen patients' rights, improve transition processes, and end the under-register of work-related illnesses. Listen to me, we are in favour of a system of mutuals – we are – but we are in favour of mutuals doing what they have undertaken to do and paying what they have to pay for, because, if not, then these resources cannot be used to pay for other people who go to public health. So thank you. Congratulations. And we ask for a separate vote from the points, president, 3, 5 and 10, in which we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.150.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.151.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Well, as it could not be otherwise, we also celebrate the presentation of the motion and vote for it, because it seems very practical, very touching, right? , and that are important issues. I will take advantage..., many arguments have already been said, I will take advantage of it to put others in knowledge of the chamber – they have said themselves on other occasions, but we seem to refuse to say them again. Before anything else, greet the people who accompany us in the public, especially the people of the White Sea, and thank them for the tireless struggle they have been doing for a long time. In fact, the Labour Commission, Workers' Commissions came to present us with a study on the situation and impact of the declaration of the diseases related to work in Catalonia. Highlighting from the study... we could put three ideas on the table, right? : the lack of recognition of work-related illnesses by ICAM, this was said and repeated many times. I always look at the same examples, but they seem to me to be very powerful examples, that are, for example, the fight that is due to the end of the hotel workers, that are visible throughout a series of diseases that are not recognized or that until now have not been recognized; the fight, for example, that brought the CGT union with the subject of asbestos, that it was also a long fight and that passed because it was recognized that it was a work-related disease. The report also posed on the table the underreporting of work-related illnesses in this country and the cost that this would entail for public health, when it is a matter of corporate responsibility. The last thing I do of the study that, well, it seems to me that all the Members and the Members that we were at that time in the Commission of Work struck us, is that the Workers' Commissions pointed out that 10,8_per_cent of the deaths that were produced in Catalonia in 2013, could be due to causes related to work; therefore, it is not a minor issue, neither the working malalities nor the underreports. About the young lady, what else do you say? Well, the ICAM and, say, the increase of the download rebuy: 2008 had 27,39_per_cent of rebuys and 2013 we planted in 40_per_cent of rebuys, so it's obvious that something happens. And the thing that was going on, it was also said a lot of times, in fact, and even the Councillor Comín has recognized it, is the agreement between ICAM and INSS, based on economic criteria and on the rationalization of expenditure, right? It was also said: ICAM has been receiving more transfers from the second state... as the lower ones were the lower ones that it decreed; therefore, this is a serious issue and that, in part, the Member is trying to reshape it. On the subject of mutual employers..., also another difficult topic. As of Decree 1299/2006, the employers' mutuals cover 60_percent of the reductions for common diseases. And this is also a problem linked to the fact that the criteria are the ones of benefit and not the ones of salvation or the common good, and that, therefore, it is a model that needs to be questioned; it is not a positive model, is it not? A private model, we understand it's not positive. And, finally, Congressman Marc Vidal has given a full reflection on the concept of work presentism, a concept that is infused, in a way, to make visible the situation that many people surely do not report work malalities or do not get sick because they lose their jobs. However, we want to reflect that this concept has to do with the negative conception of unproductiveness and that, in this sense, it seems to us a concept that at a certain time can be useful to put on the table a series of things, but that would not be the theoretical and political mark in which we would feel comfortable moving. We prefer to talk about the right to health and the right to life as fundamental rights, and, therefore, the need to articulate measures and legislation and active action – forgive the repetition – in order to guarantee the occupational safety of workers in this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.152.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.153.0	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, thank Mr. Fernando Sánchez for reminding us of the 30th anniversary of the Initiative. I did not dare, because I represent a plural group, but, indeed, thirty years ago I was born Initiative. With regard to the papers presented, I would like to thank the willingness to improve the initial text, and the feeling that we share the object expressed. And this I believe has generated force transactions that indicate that this will not be just a declarative motion but will willingly carry out and produce those changes that we consider necessary. They have submitted joint statements for the Yes, PSC and Ciutadans. The pragmatism that all of you will hear from us indicates that most of the items we have traded together for the Yes, among other things because it is also the group that has presented more. Let me highlight some of them, because with the little time I have I will be able to highlight, but you have the final text as we will vote. We have modified a little the initial text on the subject of presentism, because no one feels accused – let's say so, clearly. With regard to the control of the others who make the mutuals, we have conceded that mechanisms already exist but we must put them on the march. I especially appreciate the thought of the INSS's agreement in salvation because it is more forceful than the initial proposal: « Eliminate the economic criteria. Perfect. We have also granted to strengthen the evaluation function of the ICAM, understood as a process and taking into account the reincorporation of work, as we have done before. It is to say, to study and agree an out-of-court mediation system establishing coordination mechanisms with the other occupational health organizations. The text is possible and therefore we are convinced that it can be done. And here we have also incorporated transactions of some kind from Ciutadans and the Socialist Party. We accept Junts' message for Yes with regard to the role of the ICAM in the detection of the sub-register of labor pathology, which also improves the text, because it embedded it in the Sivel, in the System of Information and of Labor Epidemiological Surveillance. And finally, the redefining of the patients' right and right card, with all the follow-up of better ones that I have previously explained, that we believe would make possible a reorientation in favor of the care of the users of this service, which is necessary, but that because of the sick situation of the people who go there, of the users, it can help them to solve their situation as much as possible. And let's macabar, president, because I think it's important, we think that this will give more strength and guarantees to the very professionals of this service, that they don't only work under pressure, but they can often hear questions about their actions, when what's failing isn't their job but the ordering elements of the system that have ended up putting them over and over again in the spotlight. Hence, from here, our recognition and willingness to work folded to make the evaluation system what we have said before: a useful, more social and more transparent service. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.154.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Joan García, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.155.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.156.0	From the point...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.157.0	Nine.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.158.0	Nine. Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.159.0	To confirm that they have the separate votes I have asked for.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.160.0	Yes; he told me of points 3, 5 and 10.e, that they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.161.0	Perfect.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.162.0	I've got it. Thank you. A separate vote has been requested from points 3, 5 and 10.e, which can be voted together, and after point 9. Therefore, if you agree, we will vote first on points 3, 5 and 10; after point 9, and after the rest of the vote. Any objections? [[Pause.]] All right, then. We vote points 3, 5 and 10. The vote begins. The three points were approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 11 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 110 votes to 25, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the criteria for the assessment of work losses was approved by 135 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings and soundings.]] Mr. Turull... Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.163.0	Yes, President. I would ask for the word for a point of order that I would like to be able to argue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.164.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.165.0	Yeah. It is because we want to make a petition for a summons, just to end the plenary session, of the Board of Spokespersons. The motiu, therefore: there was one day that the strikers entered the Congress of Deputies to prevent the legitimate activity of the deputies of the Congress of Deputies. Thirty-six years later, it is the Constitutional Court, via the prosecutor, that enters the Parliament of Catalonia... [[voice remorse and applause]] , it is the Constitutional Court that enters, through the prosecutor's office, this Parliament to prevent its activity. We've heard the prosecutor's complaint; we think it's a capital scandal, we can't make it look like we're playing. It is the 2017 version of "all on the ground, and therefore we would ask that the Board of Portaveus meet to make a pronouncement of respect. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.166.0	If you ask me on a regular basis, it won't be a problem. Then we'll do Spokesman's Meeting. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.167.0	Yes; for a point of order respect the petition made by Junts' spokesman for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.168.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.169.0	Ask for a spokesman's board to match the successes of 23-F, one of the most regrettable episodes of our recent history, and compare it to the work of the Constitutional Court; a court, of course, which is what all the great European democracies have had for decades and decades. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] It's absolutely...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.170.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.171.0	...shameless...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.172.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.173.0	...ashamed, and demonstrate to what extent has the ethical, moral and democratic degradation of those who are asking for it come to pass. Thank you. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.174.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word? – Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.175.0	On the same point of order. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.176.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.177.0	...we'd already ordered it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.178.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.179.0	Yes, that we under these premises, of course, cannot share the need for the convening of a panel of spokespersons. Mr. Turull must be reminded that the prosecution is an organ... [[relays]] , is an independent body..., independent [[strong remorse of the eyes and laughs]] independent from the Constitutional Court [[applause]] ...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.180.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.181.0	...and that... [[The applause continues.]] Yes, yes, yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You know – you know – if you know the Spanish Constitution, what are the powers of the Constitutional Court and those of the prosecution, and both have nothing to do with each other. And that's obvious. And, in addition – and, in addition – I would like to remind you that this Parliament has also taken part in the appointment of the judges of the Constitutional Court. And so it has been working throughout democracy. [[Greetings.]] Now you are no longer able to do what you are doing because you are in the Joint Group and, therefore, now it seems that you do not want to submit to the dictate of an acceptable constitutional court...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.182.0	Mr. Carrizosa, it seems to me that the thirty-seconds have passed out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.183.0	...with that of any other democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.184.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. Mr. Turull... [[Funeral veils]] No, no, Mr. Turull... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, I'm sorry, Mrs. Gabriel – I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.185.0	Yes, to join the celebration petition of the Extraordinary Spokesman's Meeting. You see, without having to cry out, we can formulate it with all the tranquility of the world. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Basically – basically – because we want to remember that the prosecution is filing a criminal complaint against members of this Parliament, specifically against members of the Bureau. It seems to us that, at least while we're here, we won't help normalize this situation. Who wants you to do it to stick to errors in bottles, as the prosecution considers independent organs. We will not help to donate as usual that criminally instituted against members of this Parliament. [[Greetings. Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.186.0	Mr. Fernández, if you're talking about the same thing, you've already spoken. Let's go on with the Ple.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.187.0	For a point of order concerning the sentence that you used immediately after the petition...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.188.0	From...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.189.0	...of the petition of the Junts spokesman for the Yes. You referred to her being willing to call, and I would just like to express the group's position with regard to her position. [[Widow's remorse.]] Huh? That hadn't happened before. You said I'd just like to move on. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.190.0	Yes, I'm sorry... [[the remorse of the voice persists]] Mr.... Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.191.0	Aim for democracy that they don't want me to talk about. So much for us? - so much for us? Fifteen seconds. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.192.0	Please..., please, Mr. Fernández, I have said that if you agree with the Rules I will call the Board of Spokespersons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.193.0	Yeah, and I'd like to, well, refer to the phrase that you used, not the spokesman's, which is our initial answer. If I may, 15 seconds? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Simply to convey with all the calm of the world and with all the serenity, because we are not the ones who are going to say that we will give a bloody, virulent answer that we will give hosts that give up terror. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's what you say-- that's what you say. Simply to convey that if it is to convene a meeting of spokespersons to transfer to the Catalan society a parallelism between the 23-F and the one that is passing now, we will not go to this meeting of spokesman. Just that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.194.0	Mr. Fernández, that's what you said.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.195.0	Simply move this message.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.196.0	Mr. Fernández, you're repeating. That's what he said. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.197.0	No, I haven't said that before – I haven't said that before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.198.0	Let's go on with the Ple. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the collapse of emergency services]] [[302-00114/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the col·lapse of emergency services, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.199.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Well, I don't know if Mr. Coscubala lets me talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.200.0	Please, ask them... I'll stop time, Congresswoman Regant. Please, be quiet, because we have to continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.201.0	Thank you, President. So, well, after this debate, we'll talk about how some people complain that this Parliament or some groups don't talk about it, that it's about people's problems and social issues and real emergencies and situations that we need to solve. We presented a motion that we understood to be a motion of minimum, basic, things that should already be done or that should be put on paper to remind us that we have to do them; a motion that was not even a lençol..., and that therefore we left out things that we believe can also be solved by the emergency service's collapsing and to improve primary care, but that we understood that we could find at other times solutions or spaces to debate it, that we have taken advantage of to do so on other occasions, but that now we thought that we could complicate the debate or generate something that was before a full-time motion. As I said on the day of the inquiry, we would have liked..., and we have always defended that the main problem is a model problem; therefore, it means that in this young man there are things that we do not touch. Someone likes to talk about bravery, and I'd say that we're also aware, prioritize and put a few things that we'd like to be brave and, therefore, here we can also consider. Also something that we did not put down in spite of believing and believing that it could also be a solution, because it is a topic that has come up for debate a long time in this Parliament and that in a way we believe that it was not necessary to put the motion in place – we have to say that this morning we did not have a penetrating one – as is the subject of infermal prescription, because we thought that it was a subject that there was..., we do not absolutely consent to this chamber, but that there was a vast majority of agreement on the need to regulate the infernal prescription from here, and even that a motion for a resolution had been voted on by the Government of Spain to repeal the decree. In fact, we have already abstained, because we thought we didn't feel it, but today there have been parliamentary groups, this morning, who have demonstrated to the Spanish Congress that they are voting for something here and that there, for something, they are refusing to repeal the decree of infirm prescriptions, since this morning the initiative presented by different groups has been rejected or has not been facilitated by the handling of it for the People's Party – a surprise – and for the Socialist Party, which has surprised us. So, we think maybe we didn't... this morning we agreed that maybe we should have done it to close it down. Therefore, we have wanted to touch upon very basic primary attention themes, which we have already discussed, but we believe that we can complement a little to improve the model of reassignment of resources, which we have already commented on in the councillor's appearance; things related to waiting lists of hospital centers, and more then, also to decongest the emergencies; things much, much, much, much less, things that are sad to be put down by writing, that can reduce 50_percent when in fact in things we have already approved, and there are things that went beyond that, and everything, but as we at last confirm this commitment and work for it with a will of priority, as always, the centers holder. And, finally, a couple of things that we think are key to managing the Catalan public health system. One, they will say..., and the government will say that this is already public, that it is: all the contract data now..., we understand that transparency sometimes is not putting it all there and now, but that it is also ordering it, making it visible, etcetera, more beyond being avocado there, and therefore that it is necessary for us to approve it again. And one thing that we have already approved at the time of last legislature, that is to start working and to limit at once all this movement of professionals between the public and private sectors that generates conflicts of interest and that, therefore, does not bet clearly on a public system of quality where the professionals working in the public service are actually for the public service and do not search, in some way, for the revolving doors or ways of continuing to work. Then I'll comment a little bit on the reviews. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.202.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.203.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, the motion that is before us today by the CUP represents and recalls in many other aspects other motions approved in this Parliament during the past year and also during this same year, some proposals even from previous legislatures, and also proposals for resolutions approved to the Health Committee also for the group that gives, in fact, recollection to the Government. If the previous parliamentary agreements were to come to an end, if the Government once and for all completed what is approved in this Parliament, and not only what it believes is appropriate, if the Government supplemented with those documents submitted to Parliament a few more than fifteen days ago, only with this, perhaps this young man would be unnecessary or, if not, repetitive. But it is not – it is not –; the waiting lists continue and no appropriate measures have been taken to reduce them, and it continues to be one of the main problems of our health system. As the Catalan poet and adoption column Màrius Sampere says, living is proving it endless times. And, therefore, we will try as many times as we can to bring this debate to this Parliament to seek solutions. The waiting lists are now, and from the beginning of the detail, the most obvious care quality leak of our system, and that can only solve with determination and with the adoption of concrete measures and allocating the necessary resources. In this sense, the approved and presented papers for our parliamentary group in the field of salvation are on the way to the reversal of the detail. Many of the professionals or users of the health system often ask us to return to the reality they had during the tripartite government. They want to have the services they've got back. They want to return to a per capita expenditure of €1,500 per inhabitant of the year, and we lack a hundred_twenty_euros to get there. This would be a contrasting reality and not the one presented in the assumptions of 2017. It is very difficult to accept that the flaps are reversed in salvation and stay at 450_millions of what was spent the previous exercise. If we really create primary care, we need to provide it with sufficient resources, we need to make it accessible to everyone, recovering lost times, giving response to population drawings – and approved statements to the Health Commission – who have seen their primary care centers closed during the night. Yesterday in this same faristol regarding the proposal of the law that Ciutadans presented, and I believe that now I also have to remind him, that a few months ago they presented the bases for the elaboration of the strategic Pla of primary care and community greeting, and that the councillor, I have already remembered, would do well to agile it before the inevitable call of autonomous elections, as well as the Catalan tradition since a lustre. But not only because of this, but simply because the management of the waiting lists and the recovery of the health services are also a matter of urgency, and we are very much concerned about the city as a whole. For the Socialists, our concrete ideas are those concrete measures with which we will begin to see a change or a revision to the details; for example, in forty-four hours you have to meet the CAP, something that does not happen at these times; that the primary teachers can access the agenda to set the time of specialist, or that the professionals can directly prescribe access to a social health service. I am also saying this for a question of, many times, this debate that is about the need to have a social and health system that allows us all to have a much more global view of our system. For another band, it is necessary to take a decisive step towards the transparency of the system; only a transparent system is efficient, just and easily evaluable. We have approved and the government has not completed anything that also appears in this motion: the need to make public – and that is explained in committee – the contracts, the agreements or the prices of the services. Maybe we'll add that, as much as we're talking about deprivatization, there's still patients coming in private, even more than last year. In short, the Socialist Parliamentary Group will give recollection to this young man, even though we want to warn that under the assumptions we may again have a young man who remains on a tight paper. We have now proposed a set of waiting lists for the non-attitude assumptions of 2016 to have 45_million euros disappear from the already planned in 2017. And if we ever had any doubt that with 90_millions we could complete the 50_percent reduction goals of the surgical waiting lists, in this sense, imagine what we could do with only the 45_millions planned. That today the Valley of Hebron is fixing operations for the second quarter of the year 2018, or that there are no staff contracts to open more hours of surgery, or that there are patients who disappear from the waiting lists, or specialists who do not incorporate them because they are ashamed to fix interventions beyond six months, are some examples of the real Catalonia, of the one that must be present in this Parliament and who is demanding swift and effective solutions from us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.204.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Next, the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.205.0	Yeah, nice late. The welcome to the company of the White Sea and other people who accompany us today. Well, let's say that we will give this motion presented for the CUP accompaniment, because, if it is incomplete in many respects – as the Eulàlia has said, it is not a lençol what we need – but in change it does touch those sensitive, weaker trunks of sanitation at these times, which I think are more strongly related to what the Sea is claiming. And, therefore, in this sense we have only submitted reports in the sense that there is not enough to say that we are operating in the late afternoons and the corresponding beds, but that there is all this invisible staff who are in preoperatives and post-operators and which has meant in many cases more than hundreds of workers and workers who have disappeared from public health. I am referring specifically to the Blood Bank, I am referring to auxiliaries, I am referring to nurses who prepare for surgery, I am referring to all resuscitation services, etc., which must be very present, because it is necessary to open the surgery in the morning and late, but it is necessary that all these staff are there and that patients are not transferred, for example, from the units of semi-intense because there is no other that is harder, but, in turn, it is not certain that I can get out of semi-intense. And they know what's going on. Therefore, we think that it is important to make visible, taking advantage of the advent of this young man, all this staff around the operating rooms that are experiencing these labor tensions, of rights and lack of personnel, and to reaffirm once more that it can also reverse this immense stupidity of closing the operating rooms late, when this was not the problem; the problem is that these trunks that designate the young man presented by the Eulàlia Reguando, on behalf of the CUP, are the trunks for which there has been this flight from the public to the private. There's an announcement these days on TV that you make it very clear: your daughter doesn't sort the hour to get sick, you can safely go to the private crowds that there are no waiting lists there, that there are no emergencies there, that you will be there right away. We know that this is not true; if this child is really very ill, what they will do will lead to the public. The other point that we have presented, and that we would like to know whether it is also accepted, is in relation to the step of the health professionals to the private and the public, that is to say, these transfers of staff that have been said, that we consider to be applied above all to the other level; that is to say that the preventive clauses must be staff that can actually affect the policies, the flow of patients, to extend this step further from..., communicating and vampiric from the private..., on the part of the private in relation to the public, and, in the alternative, we should facilitate as much as possible all nursing staff, doctors, nurses and doctors, etc. may pass, naturally, to the public at all levels of the hospital in the end. In this sense, therefore, we also think that it should be made clear that what we are against is the rotating doors and we are against what is the filing of personnel belonging to the public by the private. Tell you these questions, well... we want to know if they're accepted or not. In any case, we think, I repeat, that it touches the important points of escape from this so-called public-private collaboration. And so, I repeat, our group will give it support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.206.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, there is the words of Mrs Magda Casamitjana, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.207.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, first of all, all my own, our solidarity, call and support to the President and to the members of the Bureau – not all of them – for the fight and the prosecution..., which has just been announced today. The Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, benvolgut MP Llach... [[Funnel veils]] Well, Congressman Llach, that's why, despite all that, despite the spleen, I have to walk. The PR presented by the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed is a revolutionary totum. They tell us a lot of sheets for a lot of different beds. But well, we tried to read it and, rigorously, tried to put the dots on it. Most of the actions that are required, either are already being made or are planned in very short time. Therefore, I say that we will vote that I am almost at all points; except for two, that they go beyond the skills of salvation and that they require much more intense and much more information for us. For what it does at point 1, I have also been told that two points have been added to it in the last hour, two points from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which, in spite of everything, we would say, will vote for them. We would have liked to add in these two points some punctuality, because of this rigour that we insist that it should fall from all of you; that we should point out, for example, that in point 5a what is asked is already beginning and is what we are going on this line. I, in point 1.c, also of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, point out that it is done in an 85_percent of the cases. For what he does at point 2, we regret that he didn't accept our message. They were calling for time. Very little – very little – because the truth is that it is about to come out what would be the resolution we are asking for, and, therefore, to ask this time, above all, necessary, I insist, for rigor another time and for responsibility another time, and it could not be. As you know, CatSalut is drafting a national emergency plan to coordinate services at the care level more effectively and efficiently. The government wants to go further, and not limit itself, solely and exclusively, to reopening this CAP or another, but to study the whole territory in the same system. We need to know whether a CUP or five of the CAPs are needed to be strengthened, or it is more effective to enhance home care for the characteristics of the territory. For the one who does point 3, we'll vote yes. We agree. Currently, all the territories of Catalonia have one or several PADES that give coverage to their reference population. As you know, attendance at these diseases is universally guaranteed since the entry into force of Decree 215/1990. To add that in the present time there are 131 PADES, that they have a population of reference of 51,162 inhabitants per team, of medium. Therefore, this access is already being guaranteed and, more importantly, following its correct functioning throughout the territory. For what it does at point 4, it would be this one that we would vote not, because what it proposes to us is very indeterminate: it does not correspond only to the skills of salvation. And, therefore, we believe that they should be proposed much more concretely and allow for a debate at the height of the circumstance that is being asked. For what he does at point 5, Junts' message for the Yes has been accepted, and therefore we will vote for it. And, for what it does at point 6, what is described, as I have already commented, is already being done and we would also accept Catalonia's emena Yes it is Pot. So we'll reintegrate her. For what he does at point 7, we will vote for it, because everything he asks for, I said it yesterday, it's already done. It's true that you tell me that the web is empty, but all – all, all – the documents you ask for and the forms you ask for are on the web page. For what he does at 8, one more time we regret that you did not accept the message, which, we insist, was by rigour and responsibility. The experience of the department and the deputies of Juntes per el Si is what Samuel Johnson said: "I would never want to talk to a man who has written more than I read. Therefore, the department and the deputies of Juntes per el Si remain, as always, at their disposal to speak and study and listen; to read, above all, before writing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.208.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Casamitjana. To fix his position, Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.209.0	Well, good afternoon. Many thanks, again, President. Councillor Comín, Members and Members, we find ourselves in front of a motion aimed at solving the emergency crisis, one of the most important problems I think we have in Catalonia, which prevents us from guaranteeing a better health system. And it has in this motion, therefore, three fundamental axes: those of primary care, those of the waiting list itself and those of the management of the health system. It is obvious that there are more axes to the health system, but today I will focus, therefore, on those proposed by this young man. In relation to the first, that of primary care, do you, primary care, well, the ability to solve the col·lapse of hospital emergencies? So, well, clearly – clearly – no. The patients are different, the hospitals are col·lapsen... – the other day we talked about it, I see that the counselor is absent, so –, it is col·lapsen for the patients who have to enter, not for those who are high. For the first, therefore, hospital beds are lowered; for the other, therefore, more and better primary care. I think we're all on board. It is necessary to enhance the primary level by improving its accessibility, its presuppositional endowment; therefore, teachers with the capacity for resolution, discrimination, and drainage, therefore, with this better. I insist, in the hospital, therefore, that they are more beds. Now, do you want to do things for the primary? So, undoubtedly and for a lot of reasons. I'm thinking, well, about all those motivating pathologies that are chronicling and that from a few years on, each time more, will require more attention, so that the primary must give an effective answer to this matter. It was for this – and also for other reasons – that we brought that young man to this House, so it was time to make that comprehensive reform of primary care. I wish to see her, therefore, in this legislature. In relation to the second point, the list of waiting lists, so, look, again they know that we have also worked on this topic, starting because we have that draft law in progress, which wants to give greater transparency to these, so that we have various questions, various things. Well, in the first place, knowing the real magnitude of the problem, it's been difficult for this opacity that managed it, and now the advertising, therefore, of the waiting list itself. And we also want to manage, so, this waiting list setting up communicating vessels, because you haven't felt that that same proof that it can be done in five weeks in a hospital, so I have a waiting list of four months in a proper hospital. So, well, they're initials that we want to be able to work on them, but, nevertheless, we know that they don't end up going to the bottom of the issue – and that's also what we've been talking about before the Health Committee – and the bottom question is said to be detailed. And, therefore, we are aware that this list of waits is arranged, to a good extent, for more resources. And that leads me to connect to the third one, so that they bring us here, the third part of the motion, which is that of the management of the health system, where, undoubtedly, I insist again, they lower more resources, but not only that. We certainly need to change questions; in our opinion, therefore, trust and direction have changed every time a legislature is renewed, every time a counselor changes, and so, well, this is not just excluded from Catalonia, this happens to Spain and so it goes to us. But in any case, if we understand all this, that I am clear, so, that we will end up doing so, we may be in a position to make much progress in the better part of this health system. We have not submitted papers, because in general lines we agreed practically on all points. And it's true that some, therefore, for reasons that we should have because we have already presented it in motions, in laws and in other parliamentary activities, we have something that we would like to expand. Therefore, I now announce that we will vote in favour of all points, except for two questions, more for the background than for the form. At point 4, we fully agree that it is necessary to change the pattern of justification, and that the work reductions above all in those processes, therefore, very banal and of few days of duration to change it. Now, the changes to these legislatures think it would be good to make them extend this point and separate what are the work absences from the students. We absolutely agree that no one should ever go to a doctor to ask for a certificate because the child that day has the flu or has a gastroenteritis. Therefore, we agree. And last, point 8, limit by contract, we also agree on the fund. In fact, I agree with absolutely every word you have told us about what it meant for you today, but it is well not specified here; therefore, we will abstain from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.210.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.211.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, the truth is that the contents of this young man surprised me a little bit, didn't he? I was hoping that this would be a young man who would turn around more than the emergency services collapsing, just like the title of the young man and the interrogation, wasn't it? But we see that only, therefore, does it refer to a very concrete point, which is point number 2 and which says..., well in which it is asked "to re-open the night emergency services of the CAP, the weekly heads, which have ceased to do so since 2010. It's true, isn't it? That the rest of the House is talking about other issues that are of interest, obviously affecting sanitation, such as waiting lists, but we don't think they have to see directly with what the hospital emergency service is, do we? After that we will have occasion to speak to the motion that we have presented and that makes special reference to this question and that already, from here, therefore, we ask them to the CUP Group, therefore, that I give us support. That said, here we are presented with a pot of themes, of questions that are priorities for the majority of Catalans, and that we share in the majority of points. But I think that you, as members of the government, are responsible... and also responsible for what is currently being done in Catalonia in health policies. And, for example, a concrete question, right? , the theme of primary care. At the first point, when speaking of primary attention, let me remind you here that remembering the general policy debate, the president, the president of the Generality, announced that during 2017 a public offer of occupation that included 2,500 metges is realizable. But when we've seen the assumptions, this figure is reduced to 1,637 places. And you, ladies and gentlemen of the UPC, that's what you're benefiting from. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The counselor says I was confessing, but I don't know, we'll have to prove it. I... it's the data I have, and in any case, we'll prove it. Okay. It is good that the UPC is asking for more resources in health policies with one hand, but while with another sign, therefore, a law of assumptions that resumes health resources destined for Health. In this way I suppose you share the moral principles of Junts for the Yes, don't you? That his principles are that everything is going to work out, then, to get this process going that it's so weary, isn't it? And that, even, you are willing to..., present the 400_million euros in a presupposition for an illegal referendum instead of devoting it to social spending. I've already said, of all the ways we'll give support to the young man, except for a few points, and... well, basically for the motius I'm going to explain to him now, right? For what he does at point 4, he has no sense of asking in this motion to make legislative changes in the justification of work and school absences that regulate the declaration responsible for malalty, since the certificate of temporary incapacity sends him the message when someone visited him to recover from the malalty of which he is affected. Therefore, we will vote against this. For what it does at points 6 and 8, we want to make it clear that public health services, obviously, are public as to whether they are directed to everyone; they are universal, they are directed to a public in general, and that, therefore, the Administration must age for them. But his management..., we..., our model is that it can be public or private. So, in this sense, we disagree, don't we? I serve public and private management are not incompatible, for us they are not. And on the contrary, they're... they're complementing each other. And we understand that the fact that the private sector can participate in the provision of health services, therefore, holds on many occasions flexibility and adaptability; and we see it often when before transitory episodes of saturation of the system, in the end, the private also helps to pull the public out. Finally... and I'd like to make a special point on the subject of the PADES. I think it's important that you ask and that we share the cent, that you must guarantee everyone and that you can access from the territory, that you are not only concentrating in Barcelona, but that all the territory can have this service. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.212.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.213.0	Well, thank you. With regard to the points made by the honourable Member of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the second point, which I wanted to specify "in the high places..., in a way, basically, "in high places or management issues, we finally understand that, even though this is one of the things we want to attack, without putting it down, it was wider, because we understand that there are more areas and that it was a first way to start working on it, and we understand that calmly. And it's obvious that on rotating doors we'd have to make a whole monogram around it, and we'd have to land a lot more, and limit, and in the background ban or guarantee somehow that they didn't exist, not just limit it. With regard to some comments that have been made..., to the Member of the People's Party, that for you it is lawful to negotiate with a basic human right, we are clear, it is not worrying, before that there is no doubt. For you this is what should be normal, so if it is lawful to negotiate with access to salvation, there is little more to discuss. And then, respect what he said about the assumptions, if all the arguments that the UPC has submitted to the assumptions, together for the Yes has fallen to us thanks to their votes, so, no... [[remorse of voice and some applause]] , little more. We spent more money at the Catalan Institute of Health, more money for medical staff, and you decided not to vote for it. No problem. You too, then, are responsible for this; and, in fact, you are long gone many years. For the rest..., as the Socialist Party member said, many of these things with the same writing or similar have already been approved and unfortunately we are systematically obliged to put it on the table. The same way that we share a lot of things with the Deputy of Ciutadans, we have talked to them, we have discussed them, we have voted and we will continue to vote while they are not, and we will continue to be loving both here and on the street, together with all the companies working in the defense of public health, to ensure that the government, more than saying, does things. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.214.0	We're calling it a vote. Mr. Soler, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.215.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4 and point 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.216.0	Can you vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.217.0	Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.218.0	Mrs. Casamitjana, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.219.0	I seem to have already said, separate vote on the 4th and 8th, yes? And the two together is also possible. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.220.0	Mrs. Xandri, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.221.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.222.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.223.0	From Congresswoman Reguant. Yeah. No..., I..., tell Congresswoman Regan that before you make statements like the People's Party, so, we commercialize with sanitation, I would like you to know that before you make this type of statement you see the types of voters you have, that you have many more private assurances than the voters of the People's Party. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.224.0	A separate vote has been requested from points 4 and 8, which can now be voted on. So, we'll start by voting points 4 and 8, and then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] We vote for points 4 and 8. The vote begins. Points 4 and 8 were rejected by 37 votes to 73, with 24 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The Emergency Service Collapse Motion was approved by 135 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of sanitation]] [[302-00116/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on the situation of sanitation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.225.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, deputies, deputies, well, this motion that we present from the People's Party, therefore, is the result of the inquiry that our spokesman made to the Health Commission, the deputy Santi Rodríguez, to the Councillor Comín, on a question that concerns us and that concerns the majority of Catalans, not to mention all, and that it is not another issue that the issue of hospital emergencies, or better said, the topic of col·lapse to the emergency services of our hospitals, although I know that you have this word, "col·lapse, he does not like mass, but it is the subject of col·lapse to the emergency services of our hospitals, but it is the one that most professionals use. And the chairman of the parliamentary group at the control session, yesterday, gave it to the president of the Government of Catalonia that it cannot be tolerated that there are hundreds of people left in hospital emergencies. And he used to set them, like an example, didn't he? That this is one of the real problems that the Catalans are worried about, the same way, so that is education and everything you have to see with the well-being of people and citizens. The rest is flying pigeons. And the saddest thing is to make up reality in such a way that it's supposed to generate frustrations. And Santi Rodríguez said in the question: "The objective is, once analyzed and evaluated the situation, to seek measures to improve the emergencies in Catalonia. In the last data of the CEO the most concerned of the citizens for what he did to the functioning of public services was..., is salvation. Okay. Getting into business, this is a young man, counselor and deputies, short and concise, who want to make concrete commitments to the government. It's three points – three points – with its remote correspondents, who aim to improve emergency services. In the first place, we ask to increase the economic endowment of that integral plan of emergencies that, for the winter season..., that you presented at the end of December, just for Nadal, around Nadal, therefore, to relieve the tensions that suffer these services. And we will put this into practice in three questions. The first: endowments that involve, therefore, strengthening the staffing to attend to the 061 and what it serves to give response to the increase of consultations derived from the campaign, "Do you think you have to go to emergencies? The 061 trick. Secondly, we believe that it is essential to strengthen the emergency services of CAPs and CUPs and that it is therefore possible to absorb part of those emergencies that go to the hospital. And finally, in the area of increased resources, we ask that it is urgently endowed with human and material resources so that the beds that Romanesque empty, therefore, can be occupied by patients who find themselves in emergencies. Another important point of the motion is that within three months, therefore, the Government, the Councillor, has a plan of action and implementation of the necessary measures that allow us to have an emergency care network that includes all available health resources. And here, therefore, we include what refers to pharmacy offices and their professionals, the provision of beds, the dimensioning of emergency services, as well as what does..., the provision of human resources and timetables in CAPs and CUPs. And one last point from the young man is that he's referring to the time the patients spend at the emergency room, in which we ask the government not to make the patients wait more than twenty-four hours. It's a drama to see the emergency passes of hospitals full of people, without beds and knowing that there are closed beds and closed plants of hospitals. And I think that here the council has to make an effort, an important effort, because the current images we have of this service are not perpetuated in time. And this is the young lady. I want to thank all those groups that have submitted papers, concretely to Juntes for Yes and Catalonia Yes it is Pot. I have to say that we have arrived at some transactions with Juntes for the Yes and that the proposal for the deputy Martinez, therefore, we did not accept it and that then, in the turn of the reply, then, I will explain to her why. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.226.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms. Ángels Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.227.0	Mrs. Xandri, very cordially, I don't have to explain it to you. [[the speaker laughs]] I know. The only point that we have presented was to progressively ensure demerchantilization and depriving of services as well as emergencies and ambulances, and all related to this issue. And, in turn, they have accepted the Junts for the Yes, that what they have done is to convert a motion, therefore, that, in addition, if this will be accepted – that it was not strictly, nor draconian – to tend towards a demerchantization and deprivatization..., in exchange, accepting the Junts for the Yes, that they have made it become a wishful thinking that has lost strength, and that even all the fact that I enjoyed much of their motion, that they have collected that hashtag of the Valley of Hebron, of #names24haurgenicities, now remains: "Well, if it is possible... if it is possible to do so much of it, that they have converted that hashtag of the Valley of Hebron, of #names24haurgenicities, now remains: "Well, if it is possible... if they have been able to do so.... Clearly, I asked one of his group before – I didn't know you were wearing it – if they accepted the message and they said, "No, because this is yours, it's not ours. And I remembered – and let me tell you something about memory – a magnificent interview that was given to Senator Edward Kennedy in Newsweek, already sick of death; but in change, giving support to Obamacare and wishing that all Americans would have access to public sanitation. He explained why, and did not give it to him, he gave it to him as the cause of my life. And why would a person with Kennedy's fortune have leaned in such a clear way to defend public health? Quite simply, because in the 1970s a son of his thirteen years old had a cancer, there was nothing to do theoretically, but participate in a clinical health which, as a health care provider, was free. And there he was with many other Boston families, with children with the same problems, and the trial was fantastic, the cancers returned, but when the trial was over there were families who could not continue paying for the treatment. And the Kennedys had no problems, but other parents and seas with whom they had shared many hours of anxiety in the salts of "Chemium," they asked: "We have mortgaged everything, we no longer have anything to do with it. What happens to my child if you only return half of the treatment or can we get to give him a_third of the treatment or simply no longer return the treatment? And Ted Kennedy said: "This is the cause of my life, because this cannot happen in my country. And in ours, yeah? – and in ours, yes? No, of course not. It will neither pass nor pass while there are people with strength to continue defending public salvation and not to confuse it as much as it does, as it is both private sanitation and public sanitation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.228.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, the words of Mrs. Maria Rosell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.229.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, in this young man we have agreed with all the papers and celebrated it. This young man demonstrates his willingness to work for the better of health care and to increase the quality of life of all our citizens. If we are to be honest, it has not been difficult for us, because the National Emergency Plan has an integral view of the system and gives an effective response involving primary care to reorder, redirect part of the demand for hospital emergencies and improve care and assistance for people who use the health system. This board has a global view of the emergencies, the demand analysis, the optimization of the drainage of indicators of the quality of emergency care and will improve from this point of view, since there is already a lot of work done. We are urging the Government to increase the economic endowment for the comprehensive emergency plan, which will ease the pressures of hospital emergencies, which, if the assumption is approved, will allow this. It will also guarantee the reinforcement of the 061 telephone consultation service for the increase of consultations derived from the campaign« Do you think you need to go to an emergency? The 061 trick. As we very well commented yesterday on Councillor Comín, the template grows according to the demand there is, too. And that, plus, every day progressed and it's a service that June will also make a valuation to determine if it's continuing the same way or is changing the way it... who gives the service and the way it's lending itself. We also celebrate having agreed that the emergency services of the primary care centres are provided with the necessary resources so that they can absorb part of the emergencies that go to the health centres..., hospitals, forgiveness. We have also granted that you are urgently provided with the necessary resources because the beds that you don't serve in Roman hospitals can be used for emergency services. We have set a three-month action and implementation plan for the necessary measures to provide an emergency care network and all available health resources. Finally, we have set the goal that no Roman city more than twenty-four hours at emergency dependencies, obviously whenever medical circumstances do not recommend a different term. Let's hope that we can get all these motions that we're approving, that, as I said to the intervention officer, if we approve the assumptions, we'll improve all the people's services. I would like to thank Congresswoman Xandri for her facility and understanding to make us agree for a better health care, for our health care, for all the people who use the health care system and, in particular, for the people who work there, who are doing it with all the resources and forces that are possible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.230.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rosell. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.231.0	Thank you, Madam President. Conseller Comín, Members of Parliament, I confess that preparing this speech was a bit of a vertigo, of doubts, of..., and what do I say? Yes, because it turns out that it is up to me to intervene in a motion on emergency services, when the previous one also talked about these issues, my colleague Jorge Soler defended it, from which I think none will be surprised if I say that he always knows how to find the content and the right tone, even when he is attributed low self-esteem to one of Lleida. Finally, what can I say if Jorge has already spoken on the same subject? Moreover, the very content of the motion put forward by the People's Party offered little doubt to our group. I have already announced that we will vote in favour of the whole motion. That was our position when we knew the original content, so we did not make any amendments. And with the amendments and/ or transactions approved we still fully agree, so I could finish my speech here. But I was listening to the debate in the previous plenary and the reply and counter-reply of Councillor Comín and I confess to him, Councillor, it seemed like a debate..., of a good intervention on his part, I sincerely say it; with content, with data, logically repeating some concepts, which logically touched, but I also found something that I think is worth remembering. First, on budgetary matters. Faced with what I believe is a timely recrimination by Mr Rodríguez that the budget for this year does have more budget than the previous one – that is to say – but not enough to cover simply the deficit of the previous year, you in any case stated that you had the government's commitment that the budget implemented at the end of the year would have the same percentage as in previous years. So we don't improve, we don't exceed cuts from previous years. In the best case, yes, hoping that in the end the same percentage of the total cake will be destined for health, the cake may be somewhat larger, but we continue to apply the same percentage of the total cake that applied its predecessor in the position, the greatest expert in scissors we have ever known. It's not much progress. And there was another data that caught my attention. You commented that not all the problems of emergencies were budgetary and you are right, I acknowledge that. You said that organizational issues, for example, should also be taken into account. And he mentioned the case of the Hospital de Sant Pau, and I don't remember the textual words, but he said something like that this hospital looks totally at the emergencies and that is noted in their results and their data. You're right, counselor, there's a lot to improve and not everything costs money. That's why in other autonomous communities with the same or worse financing problems than Catalonia, they find themselves better, although it is hard for them to recognize why their speech would run out, of course. The organization is key, and other aspects that have been commented on, such as the empowerment of the primary, the proper territorial distribution of the CUPs..., in short, has work to do. In one of my first speeches, I think it was even the first speech I made here, in this plenary, here, in this forum, the press picked up my speech. Yes, because I used a colloquial term that caught their attention and it was smothered in the title, I don't know if you'll agree. A few months ago I told you, Mr. Counselor, that you had to throw yourself. Today I tell you again, I repeat it to you again, and it's not because of the newspapers, I assure you, what interests us is not that, but that we are concerned about Catalan health and I know that you too. Look, I can pull over. [[The orador wraps up the sleeves of the shirt.]] Yeah, I can do it. But I'm not the counselor. Catalan health needs you to step up, to put in place measures that are noticed on a day-to-day basis by citizens, who in some cases will depend on the budget, but as you explained in the previous plenary session, they are sometimes organizational issues, and they do not have an economic cost overrun. I remind you of one issue, even if it is not exactly the same: the reorganization of ambulances approved in this plenary for many months has not yet been implemented. Or topics as my colleague Jorge Soler commented a moment ago, that a patient is given the opportunity to drift to another center where there is less waiting list for a test, may mean that they are treated before and get less to emergencies. I remind you again, the matter of rolling is, because you have little time left. You know, this legislature has a self-imposed expiration date. His teammate now in his speech said they had a lot of work done, but it has not been noticed in the recent collapses. And the point is that you have little time left, counselor – and me, uf! The patients who wait in emergencies and the professionals who also suffer, the professionals who suffer seeing that they cannot do their work in conditions, do not understand this of "we have to make plans, we have to make studies, we have to see, we have to study, we lack something...; neither the patients nor the professionals can wait, Mr Comín, do not waste the time that is left: to fly. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.232.0	Thank you, Mr. Barra. Next, the words of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.233.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors... Greetings, now they're coming in too, before I could do it, Antonio López, Don Miguel Mansergas and Trinidad Cuesta, ending up... they've accompanied us and wanted to, so leave my thanks in the minutes of this session. This has been a plethora where we have talked a lot about the health system, its needs and the measures to be carried out. The motion before us today by the People's Party also went on this line, and for what it does to the position of my parliamentary group, therefore, we can give recollection, since we are in favour, to a great extent, of its content, even though there was a little decaffeinated at the end, with the transactions, and here I agree with the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is possible that, with some initial strength, at the end a little decapitated, but in what you have to see with the content we will give recollection. And we did so because it also binds a lot with a motion for a resolution that my parliamentary group tabled last December, before the epidemic of the collapsing flu, a year more and more specifically, the emergency services of Catalonia and which filled in the shortcomings of the functioning of emergency plans, not only in times of influenza. And, unfortunately, it's a common situation that they suffer daily – we have said it here – hundreds of citizens in our country. Just get close to the emergencies of our hospitals and see how beds are focused on the past of emergencies, including in hospitals where there are closed plants. Don't get along. You can't talk about quality in the service when these situations are given. It is shameful for those responsible for managing these services, it creates a lot of pressure for professionals who have to deal with this situation, but it is absolutely incomprehensible and intolerable for the citizen and citizen, who lose confidence in the system. How does it have to be that, if you are exercising to follow the Twitter accounts of the most important hospitals, you will be able to follow minute by minute how many people are waiting in emergencies and even how many are carrying more than twenty-four hours? And when you went to visit some hospital, Mr. Counselor, the reality that you find is not what we find ourselves next, the next day, when some citizens and citizens go there. And to put the needle in this topic as we seek solutions day by day, at the same time, and we hope that the Strategic Emergency Plan, which, still said, we hope that it will come accompanied by sufficient resources, both technical and human, to be able to carry it to term. Because before this reality there is no point, counselor, blaming patients, blaming the infirmary – or the nurse – surprise visits such as the control mechanism and focusing their efforts on advertising and advertising. I am saying this in relation to 061, but this is something that also happens in other areas of this Parliament. And I'm setting him an example of the law – we're talking about late yesterday – LGTBI, right? , where one of the important points is to fill in all the publicity that has been made of the benevolences of the law, which can be counted for many, but the many taxes for this law can be counted with a saying. And before the advertising effort you made on the subject of 061, so we want to recognize the efforts of professionals and insist on incorporating it as one of the fundamental elements in the treatment of emergencies. But we don't want it to be done in any way; we need less headlines and improvisations, more background work, more planning, but also more concrete and effective in the implementation of political actions, which serve us to turn the current situation around. Ahir, Mr.Comín, at the first hour of the morning I was answering a question from Catalunya Yes, it's Pot with regard to the campaign of 061. We add to the complaints that workers and workers have arrived. While you tell us you've increased the staff from 061, the same staff from 061 tells us no. This may mean a number of things: first, that the staff has increased where they don't want to, or that it has increased slightly or that it hasn't increased. They also announce that calling us at 061 will indicate the CAP where we can go, which is very good; I hope they will also tell us if it's twenty-four hours, if it's only twelve hours, if it's broken down or not, or if the specialist, therefore, has emigrated a few miles further there. As it goes, it seems that today the problems of the 061 persist and that the error, that the call without answering carries behind her a family drama, can carry behind her a very important family drama. But, as I said, we are putting hope in the strategic emergency plan, a plan that we believe needs to be seen as missing more beds, especially socio-health care, more resources and more predictability. MPs and MPs, I'm done. We have often expressed that our system of salvation, before a difficult pathology, before the activation of an emergency code, the system is of the best and is of excellence. But the problem we have in the daily routine in the response to chronicity in waiting lists for non-heavy surgical interventions. We are collapsing, our citizens lose quality of life..., well, not all of them, especially those who do not have the opportunity to pay for it; those who take a private guarantee and care for them in the matter of days, those who do have a quick attention. Now, if you can afford it... you'd better check out the Twitter from the hospital to see how many hours you have to wait for so long. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.234.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.235.0	Thank you, President. Well, we wouldn't exactly be the focus that we would give to an emergency department, but before my partner, Congresswoman Eulàlia Reguant, presented ours; therefore, it is obvious what our focus is: to strengthen primary care, to be very curious and to insist very much on guaranteeing access for everyone, for all people, to the health system, and, yes, to put more resources into emergencies, but from these two premises. Big deal, we're giving it support. It seems to us that all steps to respond to the emergency crisis are essential. A few comments. About 061, we don't agree to put in more money, because there's already been a lot of money, because we more understand that 061 is coming, not healing, and that, therefore, where we have to put the money is primary attention. In addition, at 061 workers and workers are in very precarious working conditions. Before looking at the data of the CGT union, and more or less 20_percent of the contracts of the people of 061 are in law fraud, for themes linked to holidays and for themes linked to other..., yes, on holidays and holidays. So... In addition, we made a proposal in the section of the Law of Presuppositions and in the section of the Law of Measurements, aimed at constituting a public body for the management of emergencies that also incorporated 061 and 112, etc., in the line of walking to serve entirely public and with the working conditions of people who work worthy. Because we understand that, besides, 061 is a service to people who are under a lot of pressure and that, therefore, it is essential that working conditions are worthy. Aim for a little reflection on the campaign« Do you think you need to go to emergencies? The trick at 061, of what the young lady is also doing, is that we understand that it's a bit of a contradictory message: if we want to take off emergencies and think that a lot of the people up to emergencies could go to primary attention, the message, so we didn't just fit in. But it's a little comment we wanted to incorporate. We will abstain at the point..., it seems to me that it is the 3.d, if I don't remember it badly – because I have left my seat up – because you are referring to including the provision of beds to social health centres; they put the social health centres at the side of other centers eminently public, and we do not agree to put at the same level the concerted centres as public centres. They already know that we are totally against the transfer of public resources to private centres, and therefore at this point we will abstain. Two more thoughts. We are very much in favour of putting more resources into emergencies, but we are doing a reading that is lacking, to say it in some way, a class perspective in the territory; that is to say, they do not have the same needs all the centers and, therefore, all the services of emergencies. We saw that he missed him and we wanted to put him on the table. And, linked to this, neither... is the theme of the ambulance emergency points. They've shut down a lot. Surely this also explains why a reading of the territory with different needs is to be done. Where else are ambulance emergency services closed is where the most demand is for emergency services; that's often the case. And, therefore, let us return to our central theme: strengthening primary care, which is the way patients enter the healthcare circuit, we understand that it is one of the keys to this emergency crisis. Not the only one, but we do understand it's important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.236.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.237.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, very briefly, and I think that's already been said, right? We don't accept Catalonia's emena. Yes, it is Pot. All the way, thank Congresswoman Martinez, therefore, for her proposal; also to the Congresswoman of Junts for the Yes, Congresswoman Rosell, the papers presented and the transactions to which we have been able to arrive. And I do want to repeat it another time – I've already done it in the previous motion – so why don't we support what you're putting us up to, right? They're completely antagonistic models, they're... I don't think we're exactly what you're setting us up with. And we, therefore, as you know, are very clear that the Administration has to offer, it is true, a public service – for this reason, for this we pay our taxes – but we understand that management can also be private concerted, right? And in the end, what we want is for people, therefore, to have proper attention and in a concrete terms or terms and, if possible, as soon as possible. He managed it, in the end, so it's the same for us whether it's public or private; the question is that they're attuned to what they're supposed to be and what they deserve. As for the transactions, it has also been said that, well, they have decafeinated the young man. I do not think that, on the contrary, I think that they have improved the text in certain respects and in others, so they have also made our proposal concrete in questions that, well, with Mrs Rosell we have been talking and I think they have improved it. In short, with this young man, what we're asking is that he's not throwing money into superfluous things and he's destined for issues as important as these and everyone else's worries, right? We think that the emergencies in Catalonia..., the current situation is a scandal and that, therefore, the government has to lay down its batteries and work on this issue so as to give it solutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.238.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on point 2.d, so that we begin by voting on point 2.d and then vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote point 2.d. The vote begins. The 2.d_point was approved by 109 votes to 14, with 14 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We'll have to call off the vote, Mrs Boya. [[Greetings. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Mrs. Mireia Vehi asked me the word before, when the vote was already on the way. Anyway, I didn't say the result... Why were you asking me for the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.239.0	President, it was to ask for a separate vote from a point [[relays]] I didn't do it when I was playing. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.240.0	I know it's hard, but the vote's done now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.241.0	All right – all right, all right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.242.0	The motion on the situation with regard to sanitation was approved by 121 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the state of the coast]] [[302-00115/11]] The new item on the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the state of the coast, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. To expose it has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that they can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. [[Rialles.]] Mrs. Candini, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.243.0	Thank you, President. Counselling and deputies and deputies, we present this motion as a result of the inquiry, basically, for five questions; five questions and five observations. First, so, obviously, so – and so we understand parliamentarianism, especially from the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes – the need to talk about what is happening to our country as well. Therefore, along with all those who, in some ways repeatedly, try to make us see that we only take care of "processionism, in reality, logically, we also talk about everything that affects and that therefore has an impact on the whole of the territory. According to the observation: it is not only to talk about it, but also, let us say, the need to respond to these problems and to put the focus and to put the full attention to them, so in these problems, to try, in the measure of our possibilities, certainly to find the way that can shed all these circumstances. The third element that I think is very obvious, and one element that every time more has to be said and done a lot of teaching in this sense, is the fact of the climate change. Many times it's spoken a lot, of the climate change, of fact it's spoken a long time ago, but it is true, and above all in a very clear way the people that we live, therefore, to touch from the sea – we have this expression, let us « touch from the sea –, that we are seeing, certainly, as the evolution, let us say to ourselves, geographically, the geographic impact for what it does to our own territories from the storms is very different. Therefore, it is also true that there is this affect, this special affect from the climate change. And this leads us, obviously, therefore, to make plans and strategies in a much more global way, where the element of sustainability and the element of trying to give it out and answers, but they always understand very much what is that pettja of nature and how compatible the pettja of nature with the needs of people, it is obvious that they are absolutely necessary. Fourth observation. I said this at the time of the inquiry: the territories from the territories, the councillor, the territories from the territories, and this is absolutely important and basic. And I'll explain to him something that you, counselor, know for sure, but that is that today, therefore, the delegate of the Government, Mr. Enric Millo, has introduced himself to Malgrat de Mar without informing him of his assembly, without informing him of his mayor, like that of Welcome, Mr. Marshall, and has come to announce a whole series of works that will, according to him, take away the whole subject of the storm. It's obvious that on the side of the board, more than this lack of touch and institutional respect, more than that, so, logically, they told them that as at least there has to be an environmental impact assessment in everything they intend to do. Isha taught himself a map– a map, four axes, four rattles– and they said that the week closes to bidding. Well, it's not just the political culture of Welcome, Mr. Marshall, but, besides, they have, so let's just say, they're still practicing this old, old, old, political age. Five observations, five observations that..., what we say, for the territories of the territories, but also five, above all, to claim, counselor, from the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, therefore, that we want to hold the ability, from all the forces and from all the possible means, to be able to give answers..., therefore, not only compliments of that status that, although they have been brushed, certain articles that do not happen..., therefore, let us say, there were passed the brush, that gave the Alfonso War, also not only have completed with those articulated; despite all this, what we want is to be able to have all the instruments to give answers to the needy. And that's all we've presented to this young man, with whom, therefore, you have everything that he consists of, a young man who has six points. On the part... in my second intervention, I will already comment on the reports that have been presented. Yes, I will say, in a very clear way, that the papers presented for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot... – I will expand it, in any case, in my second intervention –, exquisite, the parliamentarianism of the Member Hortênsia Grau, exquisite is scarce; so it can do, let's say, politics in capitals, when there really is not that reductionism of action that makes my rao, his, the one that follows, go against..., instead of, as has been done by Hortènsia, try to help. And finally, in any case, I would like to say that obviously this motion, as a result of the inquiry, was accompanied by a facsimile, which has guided me in a very clear way, both the deputy Meritxell Roigé, who forms part of the territory and, therefore, in a very vigilant and positive way, such as the deputy Marc Sanglas, who is also a spokesman for this committee, who have accompanied me, guided me and gave me all the necessary advice. Thank you, counselors, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.244.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.245.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, at first I could not be there when Mrs Candini asked the councillor for a meeting, but reading the text, well, it seemed to me more interesting the inquiry, the one that the councillor answered, that the one who was then a little bit the young lady, which seemed to me to be a little reductionist, in the sense that she put all the force in which she wanted to demand the Government of the State, but I believe that here, in the management of the coast, even though we do not have all the skills that we would like or want, we still have certain competitive mark or certain margin. And in this sense, thinking about this, we proposed a whole series of ideas, which I also have to thank the Candini MP and the department team who could work with them. How I have little time to focus on those that seem more important to me. And it's... in point 1 we add a whole series of points that you have to see... that, to solve the issue of coastal management, that we agree so much with the State Administration... but also with the local administration, because there are skills that are distributed. To me it seems very important point b, for example, that the whole subject of the sorra, of the obligations to move the sorra from one place to the other, has been added. It's a shame we can't even lay down to drain, because that's important, because they say how we do this, when the doors come, so they do worse or less. So, here, an advent. And more so than that, it's in the sense of what Ecologists in Action are defending, what they're defending... what the CIRC report says, that's to say, that I say, what practices do we do when we drain smiles, what practices do we do when we clean up... For example, I recommend a report that is surprising that Ecologists have made and that sets an example of the treatment being done in some plagiarisms of Tarragona and in some of the Balearics, which are saying: "Listen, every time you see a portada that takes everything away, if you let it happen in the winter, when there are storms and the sea expels all the remnants of meadows of fanerogames, of posidonia, the bowls, that is not crude. Brutice is plastic or it's chemical residue, but that's not crude, it doesn't have to clean it up, because that's what it does to fix and make a system of dunes that then, when the storms come, fix the sand, right? So, I think we need to make a change to what's raw or not and how this is supposed to help us, right? With these contributions from the scientific world, as we have to do this net of platters. Also, for example, a point that we find important is that of the Maresmian strategy, like years ago it was done – and we also negotiated it – so that the strategic document is updated. Why? Because they have changed things, because we have a climate change scener and because they have changed – and fortunately every time they take more into account – the environment, sustainability, etc. That's point three, too. Point 3, for us, is important. Just this morning we were meeting with the people of the PDE and the people of the Sediment Campaign. We have to deal with the issue, in the case of the Ebre Delta, in the case of..., the issue of sediments, which more than anything else has to see the full management of the conca, it has to see with the embassies, it has to see with the complete environmental, but it is important that we address it, because if not..., that we address it thus, with a more global look. And I think we have an instrument, which is the PIPDE, the comprehensive delta protection plan, in which the two governments are represented and the scientific world has also been represented, and therefore in this framework we can move forward. Also accepted at point 5 add..., that it is well to demand the transfer, and you are right when the counselor said in the appearance: "It is here that we are doing like API, right? With the concessions, it's fine to demand, but I think that now too what we have to do is change the decree that is being made, of transposition. That is to say, apart from the fact that we can manage the authorities and concessions, we can also fix and recap the canon, and, above all, that while we do not have these transferred powers, man, we demand the Government of the State that I complete with right and time. And very quickly, because I end up saying that I removed item 4, because it was repeated, it was a mistake, and I removed item 7, which refers to the Olympic Port of Barcelona, because I understand that it is a complex issue, that there is a protocol signed between the Barcelona Assembly and the Generalitat and that, therefore, perhaps it is better that... I think I did not write it with the right terms, and I understand that, given the complexity of the issue and that there is this willingness between the Barcelona Assembly and the Generalitat, I think it is better that this issue of the arrangements pending between the two governments is resolved bilaterally, as I know they will do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.246.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Subsequently, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.247.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... well, everyone knows that this motion that was presented to us by Junts for Yes, it's not really a motion. As it was originally written is propaganda, a pamphlet that responds to a strategy, which is to present Catalonia every day as a community systematically mistreated for what you call « l'Estat. It is clear that what inspires this motion is not a concern for the coast, but the Convergence 2000 programme, specifically a section, the f: «Memorial of hardships: discovery and observation of discriminatory fets, caresses, etcetera, in a clear and systematic way. This is what they have been doing for thirty-five years, as a manual, today instrumentalizing the last temporal to present us as victims of an evil, perfidious, disloyal state, which does not fulfill its commitments; pure Manicheism: « Madrid, dolent; we are good. An argument with which more and more competences and more competences are called for every day..., fins à l'etat propi, oi? [[The timer laughs.]] They have been like this since 1980, when Jordi Pujol, such an honorable politician, incorruptible, transparent, percentage, and I would say that Andorran, acceded to the Generalitat. We have already had more than thirty-five years of process and nationalist victimism. A disloyalty that is not towards other levels of administration, is a disloyalty to all citizens who systematically lie to. It's a strategy you published, it's that it's known. And citizens deserve an honest government, that does not use problems to achieve their partisan goals, but rather their goal is to solve them. Because when you say the problem is that you don't have the competition, you're not being honest, you're not telling the truth, you're lying. They always say: "If we manage it ourselves, we will do it better. But that is not true; there is nothing more to see about line 9 and the deviation of more than 8,000_million in one work. What great managers, huh? Or the bus-vao lane. "If we managed it ourselves, we would do it better, repeat. Well, this is almost a supremacist idea. But, of course, with a government formed by the heirs of Jordi Pujol and Heribert Barrera... We already know what Jordi Pujol and Heribert Barrera were in those terms, don't we? The Maresme strategy was approved two and a half years ago – two years and two months, it does not reach two and a half years – with an expected budget of 48_million_euros, of which two_thirds_parts, 32_millions, have been committed by the ministry, but one_third_part, 16, corresponds to the municipalities. This is what Councillor Rull said in the reply to the inquiry in the previous plenary, but his motion, originally, only urged the Generalitat to claim from the General Administration of the State, does not require any implication from the Government, as if it had no responsibility. And, yes, it is true; phase 1 should already have started to run in El Masnou and Premià de Mar, which is exactly where I live. But do you know what's going on? that this project cannot be carried out if the municipalities do not contribute economically. And what is the Government of the Generalitat doing to enable municipalities to contribute financially to this strategy? Accumulate debt with them. Of course, it's a little difficult for municipalities to make their participation when you run it in a disastrous way. And you cannot give lessons in demand without being a little more humble, without trying to set an example and without being the first to fulfill your obligations. I understand things are very complicated, huh? ; but, of course, this, which is a reality, for it would be good if it were not instrumentalized, as they do continuously. Because in recent years they have accumulated a debt of almost 2_million_de_euro with Premià de Mar, and more than 1.2 million_euro with El Masnou, and more than 1_million with Vilasar de Mar, something more with Pineda, more than 2.2_million with Malgrat, and 7_million_de_euro with Mataró. In total, the Generalitat owes the municipalities more than 700_million_de_euro. And the truth is that his motion seems inspired by an idea: "It is very easy to blame yourself, but it is easier to blame others; from that great philosopher who is Homer Simpson. It seems to be inspired by section f of its 2000 programme. With our amendments we wanted to change that approach, to move the motion from being a memorial of hardship, section f of the 2000 programme, to a text aimed at solving problems in a coordinated way between all administrations, which is what they should do. Here they are always looking for reproach, victimism, confrontation; no, what needs to be done is coordination. We have a complex, decentralized state model, huh? , that goes from the general administration of the state, municipalities... well, coordination. Finally, we regret that they have not accepted any of our amendments. They have made it clear that they cannot dispense with a political propaganda that is summed up in the idea« Madrid dolent, we are good, and that they multiply with slogans such as« Ens volen aixafar, « Tenim un stat contre, « Espanya ens robas y patranas of this kind. In section f, programme 2000. It is clear that they continue to act under the same strategy devised by Jordi Pujol, and if that is still their reference, there is no more to say. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.248.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.249.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, the young lady, what do you ask of us, among other things? That the State completes its commitments. Absolutely okay, huh? Now, I think that in what we're asking the State, that I've fulfilled its commitments, there's a theme of foundation, huh? Sea of funds, on this question. What do I mean by that? Home, let the time of these last days and the impact that has generated each time that there is a portada put in evidence another theme: that, despite taking a huge amount of resources to keep the beaches of our coast, the sea passengers that have taken place somewhere, each time that has carried it takes away. And, therefore, this raises me or leads me to raise that, beyond this young man, what we should raise is the theme of foundations, which is the most correct management we have to make of our platters, because we continue to lose them every time there is a leash, huh? And this is not the fault of the State, nor of the Generality, nor of the joints, but of the way in which they have managed our coastline. They've been studying; there's one in the crowd, huh? The same Polytechnic University of Catalonia tells us that the sea level in Catalonia, in the Mediterranean, is increasing every year; that our beaches also lose centimeters of coastline every year, right? I think the problem we have, in the sense of losing platters, is still the tip of the iceberg as we managed, huh? I think it would be nice to be serious about protecting yourself, huh? In a much more radical way, for example, underwater meadows to avoid these episodes that we have, because it's the way to falsify the smile of our beaches. Other autonomous communities..., Balears has begun to treat from a point of view to act in a more natural way its coastline, its costs, and there is beginning to be appreciable positive results, huh? How they do things and how we don't have to do them. And here we follow that, we're auditioning to allocate resources to it for such, every set, eight months, when the summer season is up, because there's usually been the corresponding portada, as we save the platters and as we refer back to the maritime walks of our cities. Do we have to do this? Sure. Now, I think we have to put ourselves – the government first, in the lead, but all folds – to reflect on how we manage this issue. There is also a study, which I recommend, prepared for the marine engineering laboratories of the Escola d'Engingers de Camins, Canals and Ports de Barcelona, in which I think it sets us up or sets us up before the miracle, right? I'm sure the time has come to decide which coast we want. And, like so many things, we're in a paradigm shift, aren't we? The current model, in the medium and long term, certainly also..., " certainly not, for the effects of climate change..., we will have to change them because they will not be sustainable, neither from the economic point of view, for the costs of repair, again insist, that this entails. We should set priorities and solve problems: plagiarism areas with a sorra, because the economy of those cities, of those municipalities, therefore, depends on this; plagiarism areas of other types, because in them we must protect these infrastructures, and plant ourselves as well as with the deltaic areas of the country and the sediment policy, because we say that the sediments that reach the plagiarism and the deltaic areas afterwards are distributed in the form of a sorra for the coastal conjunct, right? And here we have to decide whether we need to let the deltaic zones evolve naturally or we need to protect them somehow. We have some infrastructure that we have built, probably more than anything else, in the Catalan area, such as ports, some other infrastructure, that will also help when there have been developments..., and the natural movements of the marine currents end up affecting the landings in an obvious way. In the law we have now in progress, which is the Law of Ports, this is probably one of the issues we will also have to deal with. We'll give support to the assembly of the young man. That's right, we're asking for a separate vote on point 5 and point 6.a. From point 5, the first apartment, huh? It seems to me that there are three; the first apartment.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.250.0	Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.251.0	Madam President... Deputies, deputies, councillor... Mrs Candini – she is there –, who made Welcome, Mr. Marshall has not been Mr. Millo, it was the territorial councillor, Mr. Rull, who went, took a photo and left. That's what happened. And the state has not come today to see what happened on the coast of the Maresme; the same week of the wrecks the delegate of Costas was already on the ground meeting with the mayors to see what was happening. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, ma'am, yes. He was – he was – and don't deny it. And it can also be proved. And he was with the mayors. And, besides, not only that, but also some budget items were agreed to fix all the damages of the storm. When I saw the motion I thought: "One of two: either you lack information, and I bring it to you, or it is a motion to oppose the state." Because you see the first point, which is very general, about the effects of the storm; in the second point, they put two municipalities; they go back to the fourth, they talk about the same, two more municipalities... Man, and I think the normal thing would be to recognize the reaction of the government, that that same week was evaluating the damage, and already several weeks ago some..., a budget line to fix the damage of the storm: 2,000,000 for Malgrat and Pineda de Mar; 125,000 for the coast of Girona, and 1,400,000 for Tarragona. In total, 3.625.000 euros that have been approved by the State to fix the temporary damage. What you ask in the motion is already done and works will begin. Then they start talking about other municipalities. Sit down. In Sitges, as far as we're concerned, we're already talking. And when he talks about Badalona, what is he talking about, the collector? Because, if you're talking about the collector, the state there has no jurisdiction. It will be Metropolitan Area and will be Generalitat; it is not the State. Why does the State claim something that it is not competent to do? Do you not want skills? Take them. Therefore, that is a motion, one of two, to misrepresent or confuse public opinion. When you talk about the Maresme strategy, perfect. It has been said that two years ago the technical phase of high-priority actions was approved and has already begun. And so, for example, the project of the construction of the support dam of the beach of Ocata, in El Masnou has been developed; the feedback of the beaches of El Masnou has been approved of lift to the port of this municipality; stabilization of the beaches of Premià de Mar from poniente to this same port, and to date the processing of the environmental impact assessment has already begun. Therefore, all that you ask is being done. Like point number 3, which is also being done by the State. Then they talk about wanting skills on the exploitation of the maritime public domain. You know that this area is of general interest and requires a general national defence and treatment – "national, of course, of Spain". And, so, you know this isn't gonna happen. I, in fact, when they talk about not investing in the Catalan coast, they lack the truth. Investments in the province of Barcelona in the field of coasts from 2011 to 2017, executed: more than 20_million; in Tarragona, another 20. Look, I'll give it to you if you want. Not today. Or, if you want, now. I bring you here the agreement of the ministry by which the games – the games – are remembered for the topic of the temporal. Here the investments of the State : Barcelona, Tarragona and Girona, executed; unbudgeted, executed. Therefore, man, if you want to oppose the state, do it in the Congress of Deputies. If you want to come up with a motion, be more realistic and recognize what is being done. And, by the way – by the way – that is indeed the doubt that I have, where are the investments of the Generalitat in the Maresme? Where are they? Because today they are neither expected nor expected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.252.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, the words of Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.253.0	All right. Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everybody. We find ourselves with this motion on the state of the coast, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, and we can say that it is a type of motion that we are already accustomed to in which, therefore, this parliamentary group does what it does is to submit a series of complaints to the Government of the State and generally does little or no self-criticism about the different responsibilities that we have as a country and, in this case, on the coast, we have and have many. It is at the same time a young man who is part of a position that we can conceptually call "weak", because he does not attack the causes of this problem that we have on the coast, and all this leads to a series of natural fatalities on which we, therefore, the only one who can go, we say, is to intervene on the basis, therefore, of more antigo, more spigots and more artificial regeneration of platters. And it is true that there is a series of competitions, especially within the ZMT, that are almost exclusively from the State. But it is also true that, beyond this ZMT, the Government of Catalonia has exclusive powers, in order of the coast, as it is recognized in the same Statute of autonomy of Catalonia of the year 79, and, in change, we have not developed any law of order of the coast, as well as having exclusive powers, I say, beyond the ZMT. It is also true that the majority of elements, buildings, infrastructure, equipment that are on the coast, or that have ended up on the coast, have taken place from urban or sectoral processes that are of exclusive competence of the Generality. And so, this way, and from here, and not from Madrid, the way we've been transforming the long and wide, much longer, of the Principality's coast. Only a few data: of the total of 260 kilometers of landings we have in the Principality, a 56_per_cent are urban. If we count the delta of the Hebrew, which for its natural, therefore, has not been practically urbanized king, because it is quite difficult, this xifra rises to 70_per_cent. That's to say, we have 70 percent of the beaches in the Principality of Urbanisation. Is it Madrid's fault that we're only left with a 30_percent of natural plagiarism? In part we could say that yes, because a bad application of a good law, in my opinion, as was the Law of costs of year 88– was a good law, the inn in practice was harmful–, it did, therefore, that all the municipalities of the coast, before the approval of that law requalified as urbanizable all the coastal fronts. With that law not retroactive, these urbanizable coastal fronts were left there. And from here, the government of the Generality never forced to re-qualify as non-urbanizable lands that were manifestly superior to the needs of all these municipalities, and so many coastal fishes have remained as urbanizable and that have never been developed, but when it has certainly been possible to do so. And that's our responsibility. For another band, it is also true that the effects of the storms may be true that each time they will be more frequent due to the effects of the climate change, but it is also true that the ports have not been invented four days ago. The porters have existed since there is sea. And we can say that this young man does what he does, I don't know whether intentionally or not, is to obviate the functioning and the natural dynamics of these coastal systems. It's as if we want to make people think that they don't know that coastal systems are dynamic by nature, that late and winter the beaches are used to being shorter, smaller, and that in spring and summer these beaches are expanding. That and all the people in the dry, like me, we know... [[relays]] I mean, I didn't have to go to college to find out about these things. But, in turn, what they've done is they've put more ants in it, and they've put more pins in it, and they've put more ports in it... that's why to try to solve the problems many times what they've done is to make them worse, with all these interventions they've done. We have removed the dune systems, we have dried up and occupied the different water bodies, we have built maritime passages, we have urbanized the first lines and flooded areas of these first lines, we have built ports– one diset_quilometres, to be more accurate–, we have built spikes, shields, we have retained the sediments to the reservoirs– this morning the companies of the Campaign for the sediments reminded me, that at present in the sea of the Ebra there is only a 1_percent of the sediments that arrived before the construction of the reservoirs. All this has led to the alteration of these coastal systems, making them poorer and more vulnerable. And we find ourselves with a young man who instead of attacking the causes of these problems, what he does is propose, or understand what he proposed, more pieces to this problem. A couple of pieces that I'll take – we'll give it to you, huh? – to solve these problems, they add and that they are pieces that cost money. Between 60 and 80_percent of the annual budget of the Directorate-General of Coasts is spent annually on the regeneration of platters, it is money that is literally thrown into the sea. With all this – and I'm done –, just to say that the initial intention was to vote against, practically, the whole motion, which happens that, so, with the papers, there's one thing left, say, enough voting, and we'll vote for plenty of points. However, we will abstain in those who claim things in Madrid, which, as you know, we, therefore, are about to do here. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.254.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.255.0	Thank you, President. For what he does, therefore, to the papers that Catalonia has presented Yes, it is Pot, I said it in my first intervention, I sincerely believe that this young man comes out much better with all his contributions, Mrs Grau; I think it is much more enriching and therefore I thank him for this good work of parliamentarianism, don't I? For what you do to the papers that Ciutadans has presented, I think you have demonstrated today at the length of the day – I have the impression, huh? – that they've gone to some errand, haven't they? To some runt that they have told them that one way to be seen is to overact, well still play music, well then striptease, or else... in any case, so, tell, to the parliamentary initiates, that we make pamphlets. [[Some applause.]] Well, in any case, they are ways, they are resources, or they are not resources, in this sense, from a point of view of parliamentarianism. You say it's not me. Look, I'm the one who wouldn't want to be around the world is that everything that we're doing seems to be announcing the Node. Believe 'that the part in which you have incorporated that simply is limited to not requiring the Government of the State, seem more soon announced of the Node. Because a woman has the impression, a miqueta, that, as a result of her intervention, you are turning into a miqueta, so let's say, in the People's Party minyona, "let's make it easy, right? [[The joker laughs.]] "Let's make it easy for us, especially if we can say, yes, that we have a great influence – a great influence – in Madrid. Anyway, quiet, happy to be able to work on this line. And tell Congressman Villagrasa that I was talking about at all times... I've talked about the government delegate at all times, I haven't talked about Mrs. María José Toledo, the head of the way. I talked about the government delegate, Mr. Millo, who went to Malgrat de Mar and didn't even make a call to the mayor. What is very different with Councilman Rull, who announced, spoke to all the mayors and when, logically, he climbed the territory, he accompanied all the elected representatives. Among other things because it is very different to think that one has the responsibility, because the tea, from a point of view, emanating from the people, or another that exercises from the verticality of power as if it were a turn. The viriles don't like us, no matter the way they go. Thank you, anyway, to which you have brought things. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.256.0	Thank you, Mrs. Candini. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Saladié, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.257.0	President, for a separate vote on item 1a, 2, 4 and 5, and they may vote jointly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.258.0	All right. Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.259.0	Yes; to request a separate vote: point 1.a, 4, the whole of 5, 6.a and 6.b. Separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.260.0	So they can no longer vote together on 1.a, 2, 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.261.0	You can vote together on the 2nd...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.262.0	The four... the two and the five.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.263.0	No, two and three.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.264.0	Neither do you. So, no, they can't vote together. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.265.0	For two things, one for allusions and the other for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.266.0	Thirty seconds for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.267.0	Yes; respect the manifestations of the Junts for the Yes spokesman, who compared us with minions, tell him that the minyona profession is very worthy and that he should not use this expression in Parliament in this way, as less so. Then... [[Greetings.]] And then, with regard to the separate vote, ask for a separate vote on points 5, 5.1, 6.a and that is it. This. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.268.0	They had already asked for all but 5.1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.269.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.270.0	Mrs. Candini, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.271.0	Yes; for allusions, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.272.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.273.0	Okay. Tell, in any case, Mr. Carrizosa, first, you weren't there, you must see the context. Second of all, you've been calling us "supremacists" twice. I'll tell him who doesn't want him, don't go to age. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't know about the castle, but I'm sure you understand. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.274.0	A separate vote has been requested on points... [[Widow's remorse.]] Please. Separate vote from points 1a, 2, 4, 5, 5.1, 6.a, 6.b has been requested. Okay? [[Pause.]] It seems that we cannot vote together, we will vote, all of these, separately and then we will vote for the rest of the motion. So, let's get started. We're voting point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 111 votes in favour, against and 20 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 2. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 113 votes in favour, against and 20 abstentions. Next, we'll vote point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 73 votes to 26, with 35 abstentions. Next, we will vote on point 5.1. The vote begins. Point 5.1_was approved by 89 votes to 10, with 35 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on the 6th. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been approved by 83 votes to 26, with 25 abstentions. Next, we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. Point 6.b_was approved by 124 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.275.0	Yes, President. I am afraid that you will now ask for a vote on the rest of the motion and we will ask for a separate vote on point 5.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.276.0	Okay. We're voting point 5.2. The vote begins. Point 5.2_was approved by 117 votes to 10, with 7 abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the state of the coast was approved by 134 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Many thanks to everyone, and the session gets up. Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-23-3002.277.0	Yes, President. Fifteen seconds because in this plenary room the truth was missing and it was to inform Mrs Candini that the government delegate was indeed accompanied by the mayor of Malgrat. Report is better. [[Widow's remorse.]]
