ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you. The list of questions to answer is included in the Ple folder. In accordance with Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda. [[Ask the Government about the metro service in Barcelona]] [[310-00256/11]] The first question to the Government is about the Barcelona metro service, formulated for Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.2.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counsellor, how do you assess the management of the Barcelona metro strike that is being carried out by the Barcelona City Council, the Metropolitan Area and the Government of the Generalitat and the public transport alternatives that are being offered?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. It has addressed concrete responsibility; there are different responsibilities, but a lot of concern. We are talking about a very important impact on the citizens. Whenever there is a vacancy in a public service, the affected is not the business, the affected are the citizens, it's the people. And, in this case, there is a loss, every day there is a gap, of 164,000 public transport users, which means that there is less public transport and more private transport. And, therefore, with great concern, we are watching these waves, which seem unfinished, until now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.6.0	Mr. Counsellor, we have been on strike for two and a half months, every Monday, in the city of Barcelona, in the metro service; a huge injury to all users of public metro transport, whether they are citizens of Barcelona, people who come to work in the City of Condal or simply people who come to visit the capital of Catalonia. In those two and a half months of strike, we already have 1_million_euro losses, 1_million_euros that will be added, and surely, given how the strike goes, in August it will be above 2_million; losses that come out of the public coffers, of the money of all citizens. Let us hope and expect more responsible attitudes from all sides: first, from the Puemite Government of Mrs Colau and the PSC in the City of Barcelona, from the Metropolitan Area, also from the union leading the strike, but also from the Government of the Generalitat, which is the Government that dictated and decreed the minimum services; minimum services that are not producing results or responding to demand; no alternatives of public transport to metro users; with situations of more than half an hour waiting on the platforms, with saturation and, obviously, with danger for the people waiting there for the metro. What I do not understand, Mr. Counsellor, is your silence, the silence of your Government. What's the point? When there is a problem in raffles, it takes you seconds to speak ill of the Government of Spain. Why are you quiet now? I'll tell you, for two reasons. One, as I told you, the decree of minimum services is decreed by you, and it is not working, it is out of date; therefore, start reviewing it. And the second reason is that you do not want to face Mrs Colau, no, because what interests you is that the City Council of Barcelona joins on October 1st. That's what you're really interested in; you're more interested in your October 1st marmot day than solving and facing day-to-day problems, such as having Barcelona take two and a half months to strike in the subway service. Mr. Counsellor, with his silence and that of the government, they are accomplices of the bad image that is being given by the metro service of the city of Barcelona, of the bad service that is being given to the citizen, of the public debt that is being generated, of the bad image that is damaging the city of Barcelona. And, Mr. Counsellor, the party, your private party, the Independence Party on October 1st, can't have this price. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I was already missing the 1st of October at the first intervention. That's to say, sweep the subway with October 1st, let's say, ratella to the surreal, if I may, eh? We're going to talk seriously, we're going to talk a little bit and do a lot, and that's what the Government of the Generality of Catalonia is doing, with a very intense amount of mediation; more than seventy-two meetings where the Government of the Generality, through the Department of Treball, in an indefatigable way, has gone to look for alternatives, mediation, which have been valued for both parts. Unfortunately, they haven't returned. And you're right: with a wave of these characteristics, there's a sense of responsibility. And we are puzzled by the fact that it does not accept the arbitration proposed by the Government of Catalonia, it does not accept it. And, for another band, the other side that says that at this point the negotiation is over. This is not responsible attitudes. And what do we see here after that? We see that there is a clamorous absence from leadership. The absence of the Mayor of Barcelona in the negotiation process is simply inexplicable. This absence is strident. And, therefore, at these moments, the band of this high sense of responsibility – and we will help it by doing this mediation –, what is needed is leadership with all the consequences. When there is a space that impacts so much citizens and citizens, with the terms – and with this we can agree – that you have set up and that I have set up, here what it is to take leadership, set up its negotiating table, get out of the comfort of a _second plan and enter to negotiate with all the consequences. The Government of the Generality will always be on the side of giving alternatives, of seeking a serious, responsible mediation, because, obviously, the city of Barcelona cannot continue, nor the metropolitan area, with this situation of a vacancy that can be prolonged eternally over time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the forest campaign for summer]] [[310-00254/11]] Second question to the Government, on the forest campaign for the summer, presented by Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.10.0	Good morning, everybody. What's the government's concern about the next fire campaign? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.11.0	Thank you, Congressman. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.12.0	Thank you very much, President. The honourable Member, it is not a prediction, it is a reality: the forest campaign began, it began on June 15th, and on July 9th, the first twenty-four days, we carried more than two thousand fires to Catalonia, more than two thousand, an increase of more than 30 per cent in relation to the past year. And I'm sure all of you haven't just realized it's like this. And you know why? Because we have excellent professionals, who do their job, who arrive quickly and who, to so many ignitions as they are produced, give a quick answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.13.0	Thank you, Counsellor Jané. There's the word Lord Castle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.14.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, look, with all due respect, we agree with what he said, but one thing is that he poses on a paper, that he poses on a paper, that he endures everything, and another very different is reality, the hard truth. He knows that I appreciate him, but I'll go to the grass, because I have a little time. U, difficult problems in the installations of Tarragona, Reus and Valls. I have seen, counselor, with my own eyes, at the installations of Bombers, deficiencies that would have made close any installation revised for the same bombers in Catalonia. But it is that Inspection of Treball says, in conclusions by complaint of the workers, literally, of Tarragona and of Reus: "It is believed that the current state of the installations of the fire parks of Tarragona and Reus present risks to the safety and health of the workers. And give three months to take the relevant measures. How did we get to this situation, counselor? Two, problems with the foreign decree. This works with structural outside hours, thanks to the good will of the professionals, as you said, but of the trenches, of those who touch the fire, and are not tired. Three, problems with the PPE, the stuff. The bombers have begun our practices; many will be given old EPI, color border. Is the department able to ensure that they meet the requirements of EPI regulations, classification 3, which must be adapted to the size of the user, for example? So you guarantee the security of the workers, the department? Four, problems at the Pont de Suert fire department. Okay, supplemented by volunteers, but do you think that Ribagorça, all of Ribagorça, should not count with a professional fire department, twenty-four hours a day, 365 days a year? We do. But it is also said in the Llibre blanc de Bombers, that the Pont de Suert fire department must become a professional, mixed model, professional service. Five, problem at the ancient hospital of Santa Caterina, in Girona. They have repeatedly warned, counselor, of the risks of opening the centre of Santa Caterina. After the water trumpet of July 4th, in which some vehicle of emergencies could not get out, they still have plans to open the center of Santa Caterina, in Girona? Look, counselor, I think we've earned our respect and credibility in security issues: when we thought they had done it right, we recognized them; when they needed someone with responsibility and principles, they also had it. So, I'm telling you, counselor, the situation, which I've seen with my own eyes, where the Catalonian firefighters develop their work is dramatic, and in some cases, I think that even puts them in a dangerous situation. What are you going to do to reverse this demented situation, counselor? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. There's a word from Councilman Jané.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.16.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Congressman, I thank you for all this diagnosis, so catastrophic that you did, because you're right – you're right. Many of the things that you said to us I told the Commission of the Interior, and they justified the strategic plan: we can't keep the Firehouse, volunteer and you will work, as we have it; we can't keep the parks as they are; we can't keep the equipment as we have them. My recognizable guilt, publicly recognizable. But we have set ourselves up to work; it is very unfair what you say, Mr. Castle, it is very unfair. It's true that aspirants in practice, now they don't have the EPI, that they have them all, and we're already... this month will be solved. And at the moment, yes, they have the antiques, the color border, with the clean plan set, and with the compromise that this very month is going to solve. And so many small things that..., it's certain: Pont de Suert, obviously, the High Ribagorça, all Pirinaeus ; they are areas that have absolutely necessary volunteer parks, we need to keep these parks, but the demográfic reality, sometimes, does not allow you to have the necessary staff to keep the volunteers in place. And, therefore, we have made a reinforcement, with more volunteers, at the Suert Bridge, a provisional solution, but from 1 September we must not talk about so many parks, the Pyrenees and in other areas of the country, that they need, they need – some must be a mixed model–..., we need to strengthen them, clearly strengthen the points of service that are guaranteed, because even though there are few people there are many territories that we want to preserve. And, finally, it's all so catastrophic; it's also true that, now that Portugal has been awarded the world's best experts to see what had happened to these great fires, the Generality's Bombers are here. They do a great service. And let me, in today's session, that just like when I started counseling... I've always defended the good professionals from emergencies and security and our firefighters, today you're doing a little more. Let's put them in value and let that value exceed the easy reviews.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about the five-hundred-nine-place squadron moss call]] [[310-00257/11]] Third question to the Government, on the convening of five hundred squares of squadron mossos, formulated for Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.18.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor Jané, the mayors of Catalonia are fully aware of the importance of security for the construction of a cohesive society, to ensure the fairness of the rights and rights of citizens, to strengthen the welfare state. This fact, we can see at all local safety assemblies that you are a fan of the country, with all the bodies of security, many of which you preside, local safety assemblies that are usually carried out with total normality. Today we must congratulate ourselves on an exceptional fact; an exceptional fact which should not be, which should be usual, usual, with total normality: the Board of Security of Catalonia, which will be held this day after years of not being held. Certainly, five of these six years, like the Minister of the Interior, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, who, these days, in his parliament, in the Catalan operation, we can see that he had a very busy agenda with cases of political corruption and manipulation of democracy and not with the security of the Catalan and Catalan assemblies; certainly, Mr Jorge Fernández Díaz, who, to the shame of all, continues as a deputy to the Congress of Deputies. Counselor, this Member wants to ask you for the appreciation of the agreements reached in this Security Council of Catalonia, held this afternoon, more than knowing the determination of the department in the convening of these five hundred square seats, but at the same time we want to ask you about the confidence that you have that the Spanish State also acts in an exceptional way and completes the agreements. Because the Spanish State is used to not completing agreements: not completing the Catalonian State of Autonomy, not completing the Constitutional Court's judgments, not completing with funding, not completing with respect to competition. Therefore, we ask him about the value of these agreements and what confidence he has about the exceptionality of the Spanish State in an issue as important and as crucial for the citizenry as security; whether or not the Spanish State will complete or not. Thank you very much, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Batet. Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.20.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I thank you for the question, because you were talking about exceptional facts; we haven't had three in three weeks. The next week of June we approved the new model of uniformity for 215 local police in Catalonia, a matching model that will look very similar to the new model of uniformity of the Squadre Mosso. Feather years it was looking for: model police of Catalonia, police of the country's own institutions. I think it's a great adventure. This week, you said it, Mr. Batet, Security Board. Eight years ago... – this is a hard anomaly –, eight years that is not called. And finally, we've come to important agreements. The movements, as they cannot otherwise be, must be at the crossroads of European police information. And, therefore, they have to enter the CITCO, they have to be at the risk assessment table, they have to make sure that des d'Europol is invited to participate in the European police information system. I, not a minor thing, we have to make it pay the debt. We certified the results: 619_million euros, according to the councillor and vice-president of the Government, that they'miss and that, from this certification, as you say, we expect it to be completed. Because security doesn't know borders and doesn't know political conjunctures and doesn't know, for example, what you said... "We have to call. We've summoned, five hundred of us from the squadron. We need it for the country. You, like the mayor... we've seen it in every town hall: in the High Camp, in every corner. You're all demanding more of us, because we need them. Because we're missing 1,500 in relation to what more than two years ago we set up on the Security Board that was missing. And, therefore, we can do nothing but summon. I'm told the premises, this House said it approved a resolution, and I compromised myself, as a counselor and as a government, before this chamber. And the commitments are complete. We have summoned them, we have given answer to the requirements. If we are presented with us, that no one suffers, because we have the legal certainty that we are doing things right; but, above all, we are doing them well for the security of the country, because we cannot be pending the request of the end of the week that can cause us to be disturbed by what the country needs for its security, which are these five hundred new squadrons, which, certainly, in the first days we already have 2,400 requests. Imagine the acceptance that this has on the part of the citizenry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.21.0	Thank you, Counsellor Jané. [[Ask the Government about the deployment and implementation of the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy]] [[310-00258/11]] Fourth question to the Government on the deployment and implementation of the National Primary Care and Community Greeting Strategy, formulated by Ms. Montserrat Fornells, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.22.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor Comín, at the end of last year, his department presented the map of the socio-economic determinants of salvation to Catalonia and communicated to us an objective seemingly modest, but very ambitious: to reformulate the system of allocation of economic resources to the basic areas of salvation, so as to adapt them to the needs of salvation of the people that come; a measure that reinforces the fairness of our health system: to equal needs of salvation, equal resources. In mid-April, the new allocation model was publicly presented, which incorporates a new social indicator and reinforces the weight of socio-economic factors in the formula of the calculation of resources to be allocated in primary care. Counselor, you have often expressed your commitment because primary care is converted into the authentic vertebrator of the public health system, and you have also been able to feel first-hand in your territorial visits the situation in which many of your professionals work. We come from times of marked decrease of resources to primary care, of pressing of seedlings, of precariousness of the working conditions and of increase of the care pressure. But the professionals, our professionals, have not failed and, again a year ago, these give the people a higher level of attention. But, as you know, counselor, primary care can't wait any longer. The symptoms of exhaustion of their professionals are obvious and prompt interventions are called for. However, the sense of urgency does not have to make us forget the sense of rigour, and less when it comes to the salvation of people. For this reason, I believe that they must applaud the work that has been done by their department in order to build the National Primary Care and Community Health Strategy, the Enapisc, which was presented the past month of May and which marks the full road with a clear vision; a work that, as it cannot otherwise be, has not been done by itself, but has been escorted from the sector in its design, and has involved it in its deployment, as was demonstrated last week in the constitution of the council adviser of the new primary care model. Horitzo's a pain in the ass. Professionals endorse it. The time has come for solutions to our country's primary care. Counselor, the question that our Group of Joints wants to ask you for Yes is: how concrete is the bet that your department has made for primary care and community salvation? How is the Enapisc concrete? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.24.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, in effect, I believe that nobody escapes that in this legislature one of the most important reforms that the Health Department in the Catalan health system is driving is the reform of primary care. And that's a priority for the department, primary care, is an easy thing to prove by observing the assumption of 17th. In the assumption of the 17th year, the specialized care, that is, the hospitals, grow a 1,2_per_cent; in change, the primary care grows almost a 2 and a half percent. Therefore, the growth of primary care is more than double. In effect, as you said, a significant part of this increase is known to take into account this new primary care payment model, which takes into account the socio-economic situation of the basic areas. And, in this sense, concretely we are talking about 12 million euros, that at these times they are already inverted and that allow me to explain that today, for example, in Barcelona we have 19 meths or nurses more than until now; in central Catalonia, 13; in the southern metropolitan region, 58; in the northern metro, 122; in Girona, 25; in Lleida, 25; in Tarragona, 24; in the Lands of the Hebrews, 11... It is to say, people with names and surnames that until some months ago were not working in the primary care of our country and that they are already working. We're talking about 300 more professionals on primary care teams, and by the end of the 17th year, we'll be approaching, practically, 490 additional professionals in relation to the past year. That's the Enapisco. This is the new pay model. Fetches. It's fetal, it's not word. And I think it's important that we keep on showing that when we present a plan we can implement it immediately. The facts, in fact, do not end here, we could also talk, for example, about the 150 new professionals who will also join the primary care teams to attend to the mental health needs of the primary care teams. So far, we've only got 50 percent of the territory covered with this mental health reinforcement, and now it's going to be 100 percent. The summary is very simple: we make plans, but we don't just make plans. Plans are deployed, plans are implemented, plans are two in term, and today, 300 more professionals are working in primary care. I think this is a compliment to what the professionals have been asking of us for some time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.25.0	Thank you, Counsellor Comín. [[Ask the Government about the latest results of basic competition tests]] [[310-00259/11]] Five questions to the Government, on the latest results of the basic competitions, formulated by Mr Antoni Balasch, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.26.0	Thank you very much, President. The analysis of the results of our education system is important to our accountability and to complement the transparency that all governments have with citizens; but above all, it is essential to be able to assess and impact positively and significantly on the level of acquittal of the objectives initially envisaged. And in order to do so, the assessment does not have to be, therefore, a photo, a measure that tells us to which level we have reached, not only that, but that the evaluation must also serve to follow the processes carried out, to guide the rush of decisions and to guide the processes of change. And that, to move forward, is to do it, say the theorists, and that's in the system and in the form of a loop. It's to say, first, we measure the results to know where we are; we analyze these results to know what happens, what works, what doesn't work; then we plan with objectives and better proposals, and we end up implementing these proposals, and, once implemented, we start the cycle again. And, to be sure, this formula has been a vital key to the educational achievements and the constant best that his Government has achieved – certainly with experts in evaluation topics at European and world level – and has allowed this: that in a context of crisis or in a context of less resources the result has been significantly improved. In fact, UNESCO has requested that the administrations use mechanisms to ensure that they keep information on the whole process in order to be able to influence the best of the results. Also the OECD, inter alia, the PISA tests, establishes a system of international indicators to know the progress made by the different countries. As they point out, and following Europe's objectives, the Catalan education system is advancing towards competitive learning and, for years now, has had evidence to analyse the degree of solace our students obtain from the different skills. It is a matter of tests, therefore, that measure to what extent the student is able to apply his knowledge, his abilities, his attitudes, to solve problems that he will have to face in the day-to-day life of his life. As every year, the Catalonia Higher Assessment Board has produced evidence that has passed to primary and secondary school. Last week we were familiar with the results of these tests, and that is why, counsel, we would like to know how they have been and how you value these results. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Balasch. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.28.0	Thank you, President. Member of Parliament, let me say that you have named a lot of Europe and the OECD and let me say that all your evidence in Catalonia is based on international systems. Therefore, we can assess our system very well with international indicators. And I'm saying this because ours is a qualitative assessment and a formative assessment that we need to improve, unlike, for example, the LOMCE assessment, that the only one that it serves is to discriminate students based on the result of one day. For what it does to the results, we are very satisfied. We are satisfied that these results show that the transformation of the education system in Catalonia is taking place, and is doing well, and that the educational policies of the past few years have yielded good results. Because we can't fix ourselves in a year, we have to fix ourselves in a whole period, as you said. And what we can say now and here is that in Catalonia, the Catalan education system has a better support for educational results in the last five years. But, specifically in these trials, I left three very important things that have happened: in the first place, the English. English is one of those fears that we've always had a rock on the Sabbath, let's just say it. So, look, there's been a remarkable improvement. If the students have improved six points of middle in English tests and three points at a quarter of ESO. We only have 14_per_cent of students on the lower level and we have more than 30_per_cent of students on the upper level. The other follows good news: mathematics at ESO. It was also a rock on the Sabbath, they know we said it, we laid down a few years ago more math hours. These last few days we have dedicated ourselves to doing more specific training for the teachers. Listen to me, Catalonia, for the first time, a quarter of ESO..., the ESO quarter students are already over seventy points, which is the level of solace of the competitions. And this is a great adventure. And the last, and certainly more important, that's equity. Europe has set us the goal, 2020, of having, at the bottom of the 15_per_cent in students in basic skills. In the plan of reduction of the school failure of the former government was marked for 2018. Today we can already say that all – all, all – the competitions in Catalonia are under 15_percent of students at the lower level. Therefore, we have achieved those results, those objectives that marked Europe 2020 and we wanted to move forward to 2018. Today we are willing to say that we have already completed these objectives. Not only that, but we are, almost, on high levels in all the competitions – they have the graphics – we are above thirty in castle, in English, in mathematics, and we need to work a little more still the català. Therefore, just tell him that the course ends with very good results, but 2017-2018 we will continue to advance in this line, because Catalonia is making a good way and Catalonia has a good education system, and will continue to advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about temporary workers]] [[310-00262/11]] Sisena asks the Government about the temporary workers, formulated for the lady Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.30.0	Good morning, everybody. Consellera Bassa, from more than two decades ago, the agricultural campaign of the fruit attracts thousands of people colliding in the summer, there are 28,000. The living conditions of many of them appear every summer in the media and every summer, also the entities of the third sector, the unions and the social movements denounce it. Many people have settlements of time in subhuman conditions, visible, and located on the part of social services and joints. It is estimated that around two thousand malicious times without rent, but no real count has been made. The most common situations in which a part of the agricultural workers in the fruit campaign are found, and who have been denounced for the unions and the CUP, are the following: the workers are contracted by ETTs or housing agencies and do not inform them of their right to housing, and are not offered. In many cases, TTEs do not pay the worker the price. The timescales which are found to be in a situation of no ground or which are in a state between contract and contract, as well as the collection of people without papers do not receive enough support from the social services for access to food or accommodation; they are on time the entities of the third sector that offer them. Some of the dwellings where the fruit has time do not have a habitable cell, are warehouses or stable, or do not have access to drinking water or toilets or cooking or electricity. And finally, a lot of people are returning to health care staff and CAP opening hours in the summer, when the number of inhabitants of many of these people is increasing. And the fact of working six or seven days a week, between eight and two hours a day and not enjoying transportation leaves the times without access to sanitation. The question: in this situation we ask whether the Department of Labour will order inspections for failure to comply with the Catalonia Agricultural Convention 2015-2017 on housing and social security contributions, and whether it will address the temporary workers who are in this situation on the ground to know who are the occupants and to take the appropriate sanctioning measures.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.31.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.32.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I think you've done an X-ray of what happened occasionally, but it's not widespread near. In which we do agree that the fruit campaign – and, in particular, Lleida – brings many workers from outside, and we all know that it is a determined time, that it is from June to October. That's why we wanted to act in a preventive way by May, and we're still acting there. In a preventive way, what we want to do is to put in place a_table, the table of the fruit campaign, where there is the Occupational Service of Catalonia, all agricultural employers, all trade union organizations and entities of the third sector, where we found that the production would be full during the year; where, therefore, there was a need for a lot of time; where producers complained that they would have to pay more, because the lack of ugly times that they would have to do more, and the unions complained of a failure of the work, not on the days, but on the outside hours. Therefore, he was informed that any complaint was presented and that we would always be at the water. In addition, at the beginning of June the government delegate, together with the Labour Inspectorate and the Labour Commissioner, the Labour Director, we sent a letter to all the assemblies asking for cooperation, but in addition, explaining to them what was the contract to be made to the workers and contractors. So that everyone has a good information. And with the contract program of the joints also we will contribute 336,000 euros: 100,000 to the Payia de Lleida, because you open an office of orientation, and 40,000 for each district council, for offices of attention to time, for actions of direct attention, because we believe that from the proximity is how we have done the job well. Despite that, we've done a lot of office inspections. I want to say that they're angry at all of Catalonia, referring to the times, but especially Lleida; 52_percent of the performances. This meant 270 completed shippers, 200 visits to each of the locations, 34 infringements, 18 high-paid workers and €413,000 in social security dues. Complaints, three. Two of the UGT union; one of Lleida's CUP, with a generic content, which was made on June 8th; we asked them to do so in more detail, yet we did not get an answer. And, therefore, I believe that we are giving answers to all the problems that exist in the territory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.33.0	Thank you, Constellera Bassa. There's a word for Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.34.0	Effectively, the CUP & CGT Appeal for Lleida submitted two complaints to the Labour Inspectorate to address groundless workers, and we provided documentation of the location of the settlements to the complaint document so that we could identify who these employees were who had not given them a rent. And unofficially it is 'nsha said, from the Labour Inspectorate, that he would not go to see the workers. Counselor, is that right? And if it isn't, what measures will Social Affairs take to meet the high volume of temporary people who are in a situation without access to basic needs?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.35.0	I know it's hard, but the Bassa Councilwoman has run out of time. [[Ask the Government about public workers]] [[310-00260/11]] Seven questions to the Government, about the public workers, formulated for Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.36.0	Counsellor, this Monday there was a new performance of the ANC on public workers to see what their protection was going to be like. There attended some of the members of your group, attended a union, attended a municipal secretary and there it was said that the guarantee for public workers was in section 3.2 of the law of the referendum that you intend to make and that it says textually: "This law prevails hierarchically over all those norms that may conflict with it, eh? And, then, thus repeals the Constitution and the Statute. I ask you: do you confirm that this is the protection your councillor gives to public workers? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, ask again – the fourth in a short time – about this matter, right? I see that you say that we speak only of the monotheme, in fact, those who are obsessed with it are you. And repeat them the usual, right? This is a political process – this is a political process – that the responsibilities, as you know, are political, that the government will not put public workers at risk and, therefore, listen to me, this is the answer that we will always give.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.40.0	Yeah, well, you haven't answered me, Counselor. The municipal secretary who went there from the ANC to say that nothing happened was immediately denied by the council of the Collège of Secretaries, Speakers and Treasurers, who said they were loyal to the spirit and text of the Spanish Constitution. Then the union that you brought, with which you met, by the way, on June 13 to talk about these issues, the Inter-union-CSC has six union representatives in the public service; six against the 1,072 that have the unions, the four, most representative [[applause]] - No, no, no, But, of course, these four unions don't have the seat glued to Republican Left on Calàbria Street, and that's why you probably talk to them and not to the unions that are repeatedly asking you for explanations. Look, you are following a very clear strategy: Mr Llach comes out first with the stake saying 'patireu, patireu. Then you set up performance with your own: "It's okay. Don't stop, go on, go on. [[Rialles.]] « Here we protect you with the law. And then, when everything has already passed, they go to court, as with the 9-N theme and "it was the volunteers, we were not, we complied with the law; it was the volunteers. Now the last thing is when his former right hand in Governance a few reports ago, makes a few allegations before the Court of Auditors and says that those who said that the expenses were well done for 9-N were the officials, the technicians: "I am a poor politician, they told me that I could spend it. I didn't know anything. [[Greetings.]] Look, you guys aren't reliable. You want to repeat the 9-N and you..., I ask you to concretely respond: what is the legal certainty that you will give to civil servants and public workers so that they will not pass the dead as they are doing with the 9-N? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.42.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you're here for the show and the applause; I'm here to give legal certainty to the public workers of this country. [[Greetings.]] That's what I'm for. You are installed in the speech of por, you want to stop the process and you have found that this is surely the best way. But, listen, no public server is at risk. It's not our government that makes preventative demands, that says the prosecution will straighten them out, that threatens businesses, or that pursues them through constant cards and threats. We have a compromise with the citizenry. [[remorse of the voice]] Yes, because they're voting for us and asking us to shoot for a reference. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] , which can be voted on. An answer to which 80_per_cent...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.43.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.44.0	... 80_percent of this country's citizenship believes that the best way to resolve this situation is through the vote, because the strength of the votes is who will decide things, the strength of democracy. And the process will be clear, transparent, effective. And, listen to me, if we're talking about unions, do you know or don't do so much theater, because you know what's going on? I have met with all the unions that have asked me – with all the unions that have asked me – and I will continue to do so. And from here... we're in a hurry, so get ready to do it again. And, listen to me, it's logical for the unions to ask for things, and that's why we get together, to give answers. We've done it, we'll keep doing it in the next few days. Why, you know what? The public workers, on the part of the Spanish Government, also of the People's Party and of you continuously, are threatened. [[Remove from sight and some applause.]] And, therefore, my obligation is to be in constant contact with the unions, with all of them, to offer open and honest dialogue. We'll meet as many times as we need it, as long as we need it and also in the format that we think is most appropriate. But, listen to me, apart from using the courts, apart from using por, it would be good that, if you are so concerned about public workers, what would be correct is that you let them work with tranquility and independence and that, moreover, you stopped using them as a political weapon. That's enough. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.45.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the application of the presuppost]] [[310-00261/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, on the application of the presupposition, formulated for Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.46.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Mr Junqueras, as we have already warned you in Citizens, you cannot spend all Catalan money on repeating a 9-N. It was also told by its Board of State Guarantees and also told by the Constitutional Court. He's made us lose six months, if he'd listened to Citizens when we told him. And now that it seems that 9-N is going to have to pay you out of your pocket or, if not, it is not going to be celebrated – but we have already seen that in your government you are not going to play the patrimony for independence. But, in any case, Mr Junqueras, what are you going to do with the EUR 6 million you have fallen from the sky as a result of those constitutionally suspended games? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.47.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. The words of Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.48.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. I never want to lose the opportunity to thank him for his weighting and his ability to intervene. And it is simply to answer them that we are and are aware of the many difficulties that you, the PP government and the groups that support them – you are the first – so they want to put into the democratic exercise of the citizens' right to vote in Catalonia, but in any case, they also reiterate our commitment to make it easier for the citizens of Catalonia to vote and to express freely in all circumstances. And this is our compromise. And I remind you that we are republicans, non-patrimonialists, and therefore act accordingly. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.49.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.50.0	You... when you're interested you're Republicans, when you're interested you're convergent, when you're interested you're independentists. But, Mr. Junqueras, wet yourself. I know you want to be the good man, I know you want to be holy Process. But, Mr Junqueras, we must wet ourselves; I know that you are advancing Mr Puigdemont on the left, but we must wet ourselves. And the second parts were never good, Mr. Junqueras. And when we believed that you could no longer be more snooty than you were in 9-N... because, do you remember 9-N, Mr. Junqueras? – Do you remember 9-N? Surely you remember well because you counted vows in your people; it was you who counted. All very nice, very objective, all very neutral, Mr Junqueras. You counting votes. So you remember 9-N well. And now they want to do something even worse because they don't have a census, they don't have a ballot box, they don't have anything anymore. But you guys still pull forward. As the man who spoke too much, Mr. Baiget, as he did, you will not be able to do so, as the ex-advisor said in an attack of sincerity. Mr. Junqueras, there's good news in front of this crap. And the good news is that now there are 6_million_euros that can be allocated to the real problems of all Catalans. You always say that we are obsessed with 6_million_euros, that that is very little money. Well, I'm not talking to you anymore about the 300_million_euros you booked in case the biblical plagues came, the seven plagues, this summer with contingency funds. But aside from that, with those 6_million you can do many things, Mr Junqueras. Six million, the same thing your Convergence partners stole in the Palau case. Six million euros is a lot of money and you can make a lot of policies. I invite you to take note. I know that you always know everything; you talk to the other Members with pride, as if you were the one who knows everything. [[Widow's remorse.]] And we're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.51.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.52.0	...we are humble deputies of Citizens, leaders of the opposition. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] But you, who knows everything...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.53.0	Quiet, and please – quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.54.0	If you'll allow me to finish the question... don't get nervous, let me finish. Mr. Junqueras, you know everything, take note: 160 high school teachers a year, 250 children's education educators, 1,000 child care places, Mr. Junqueras, 3,000 university enrollments a year, 600 residential places...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.55.0	Mr. De Paramo, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.56.0	... five times the energy poverty fund... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.57.0	He's run out of time. You've run out of time, Mr. De Paramo. [[Greetings.]] The words of the Vice President of the Government, Mr. Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.58.0	Lord De Páramo, I have no vocation to be holy Process, nor to be holy; it is an aspiration to which I cannot reach in any circumstance. So, I really appreciate the appreciation you have for me, but I'm telling you I won't make it. In any case, know that if you have an interest in the assumption, because I see that the monotheme runs out of time – surely other things too –, know that we have some interactive assumptions that you can consult; we put them on the march. You can consult the parties, from the most fine aggregates to the most private ones. It's easy to do; if you want, I'll accompany you, we'll do it together, I'm sure the press companies will be happy to keep it. Also, if you think it's appropriate, I remember it... if you know it hard I won't remember it, huh? , because I see what he said: « Sovereignty, pride..., but in any case, I will remind you that we pass, the department, as always, passes..., publishes a monthly report on its website on the state of execution of all accounts, admissions, expenses, balance financing, balance not financing, etc. We also pass a quarterly report to this Parliament, you have access to it; so any doubt you have about the subject can consult it, and if you need any advice to consult it, we'll be happy to assist you, let's say it, right? I respect the concern you have for presuppositional parties, for resources, etc., I remind you that the government to which you support has fulminated, has converted into phosphate 60,000_million euros of the Social Security Reserve Fund. You're playing with the money and pensions of the pensioners. [[applause]] And you have the holy bar to come and teach us all, when you're playing with the future of pensioners, not Catalonia, but from all of Spain. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.59.0	Thank you, Mr Junqueras. [[Ask the Government about the Government's asset sale process for the past few years]] [[310-00255/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the process of sale of assets of the Generalitat dels derrers ans, formulated for Mr. Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.60.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Vice President, during the later legislature a government, with the support of Convergence and Republican Unity and Left, proceeded to the sale of the assets of the Generality, in an operation that has resulted in ruin for the public arches and a spectacular benefit for investors and speculators. The last few days we had knowledge of operations that have come to assume even more valuable privates than 200 percent. Does your government have a balance of this asset sale? Have you detected any irregularities? You think you're making it public?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.61.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Mr. Coscubala. Certainly, the operations to which I understand you refer are operations that were carried out in an objective context of financing, well known to everyone, especially to you, that you are a serious and rigorous person, and also were operations that were carried out in a context in which, indeed, the real estate market was in the worst conditions of decades ago. In any case, the commitment of this Government and the Department of Economy and History is to continue applying the rationalization plan. I'm sure you don't know – if you don't, I'll have a chance to comment on it with you when I think it's appropriate – and you know that in this sense we're doing a very uplifting job and I think it's very well done, which counts on an amp support in this room.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.63.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's a word from Mr. Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.64.0	Mr. Vice President, I thought that his major skill was "simulation and concealment, but today I have seen that no, I have seen that what you do well is to act as Captain Spider: embark everyone on the ship, it remains protected from the storm and a possible shipwreck. I've asked him a few questions that you're still unanswered and I've asked him to give us this answer, and he goes with the alibi, with this big alibi that for seven years has been used to justify retailing, privatization, sale of assets and living with corruption. What you can get to know, I'm very afraid, as ‘the heritage case...', before this you have a double responsibility. One, because he gave support to that property sale, with this alibi. We still remember, and it is at the plethora of the sessions of the Congress..., you said: "All this we do because 2014 will be the last autonomous assumption of the history of Catalonia. I can imagine that from those statements anything you say is, like at least, in doubt. But, in addition to that, I want to remind you that you are the Vice President of the Generality, of the Government of the Generality, and that at these times you hold the Economic Councillorship. And in this sense it's in the sense that I'm asking you a question, and it's very hard for you to answer. He talks and talks, but he never answers. I'll come back to you... if you don't understand: does your government have a balance of this asset sale? More concrete: what tickets did the Generalitat get from the sale of that heritage? ; who was the relationship between what he got and the predictions that were given at his time? ;who are the most valuable private investors – certainly, very close to Palau, some of them? Is it clear to you that the executor of this asset sale process, who was the Director General of Heritage at the time, is at these times strongly linked with some of the companies that are benefiting from privatizations? They're real questions. Would you mind answering them? Or didn't your concept of democracy include the fact that the government is accountable to the legislature and can be controlled by the judiciary? It's the only explanation you haven't challenged, today. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. The vice president of the government has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.66.0	Well, we're used to you speculating on other people's intentions and judging them. In any case, I have replied: our conviction that these operations were done in a context of very obvious financial difficulties and that you know perfectly well; our conviction that they were done in a context of a real estate market that was in the worst conditions since decades ago. Anyway, if there's any... we give information, you know that. In fact, you have this information that you quote precisely because we are the public woman; therefore, it is obvious that we share it with everyone: information, data, figures, etc. Therefore, if you have any suspicion of any irregularity, I will be delighted that you share it with me, if you believe it to be opportune, that we share it together, that we analyze it, that you use it, that you denounce it... We obviously, if we believe that any question has occurred, we will also do so. And in any case, what is also obvious – and I am sure that you appreciate that I explained it, even though you do not like people who explain it, but I am sure that, strictly speaking, you appreciate it –........................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.67.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the oci and tourist complex Hard Rock Entertainment World]] [[317-00175/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation, formulated for Mr Sergi Saladié, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.68.0	Thank you, President. President, before yesterday the government opened up about the contest that is known as Barcelona World, and you got enough out of the government in full to applaud it strongly. But it turns out that when 2012 was announced in drums and silverware that 480_hectares were to be occupied, it unfolded in six great thematic areas and a total of six more casinos hotels remained in a casino plus a guitar hotel. Well, let's not joke about this snag, because this is serious. All this time, what you've done and done is politics playing with people's misery, because how can you promise god, twenty-three thousand places of work when at the end of the day only a project has been presented? Besides, they haven't said anything about the working precariousness conditions of these supposed jobs. How much will people who can get to work at this casino charge a month? What's the condition? Do you know what a dealer pays, that they're the ones handling the dough? Nine hundred euros. Do you know of anyone working in the tourist sector who pays less than these nine hundred euros per month for twelve hours of workdays? We do, and believe it's thousands, people who work in these paupermic conditions. Do you know anyone who's hooked up to the game and destroyed their lives and the lives of those who've blown it up? We do, and believe that we are talking about many people who are passing authentic personal and social dramas. More questions. Is the government or are you responsible for exposing more human density to five-hundred_metres of the largest chemical polygon in southern Europe? Why lower taxes on the game while maintaining an unfair and unbalanced tax system? So what do you want? That the masters pay a 10_per_cent while the workers and workers continue to pay the 21_per_cent of VAT for all their basic needs? What example of a country would you like to make with these policies? Could I say in what strategic area of tourism of the Costa Daurada – already from the congress, the University of Rovira and Virgils, the Generality – do the game and casinos consist there? I'm telling you, it's over. So why are millions of euros spent on strategic plans, campaigns, if to rescue the Box we're all going through the lining? Miri, in twenty years in the lands of the CRT has not developed any general interest that at the beginning of the norm allowed expropriation of the veins and veins of Vila-seca. And now they don't only defend the interests of the veins, but what you want is to reward the Box with a requalification of the lands and with a rescue of 110_million euros with the execution of a purchase option that the Generality has over one hundred_five_hectares of the Box. They make themselves 'hommirate', because while they preach that they want to be the Denmark of the South we do not acabin converting to Las Vegas of Europe. Is that the Catalonia you want? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.70.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr. Saladié, I think I guess in your question/concern some, and not a few, contradictions. I don't think it's compatible to qualify even if the initial size of the casino name today has been placed in a perfectly sustainable expression, and automatically to worry about whether southern Catalonia will become Las Vegas. One thing doesn't connect with the other. Precisely, I think we all agree that if some general interest was to defend in all this operation, which was not simple, in which various governments have worked – there was a very intense work of the former Government, and there was a very intense work of this Government, and very well too – we all know that the general interest of the veins and veins and of the conjunct of the Catalans is said to be work, it is said to be a creation of wealth and it is said to be made possible by a tourism model. Because tourism in Catalonia, and in particular the Costa Daurada, represents on our country's GDP a fairly important figure as it is because we do not believe or pose under the light of criminality. Because tourism represents, in terms of creating direct and indirect employment and in terms of influence on other sectors such as the primary sector, such an important contribution that it is not only not indispensible, but it demands that we all remain more responsible to talk to it. Catalonia doesn't have a problem with tourism, it has a great opportunity. And Catalonia is a tourist power because there is a chain of efforts that go far in the territory, in social and population sectors, that make the tourism sector of Catalonia one of the most envious of the world: for its model of quality, for its model of diversification, for its model of arrangement also in a territory and, also, to articulate a global discourse from there. And, therefore, believe 'that if anything can express when Hard Rock – who has the power to announce the creation of jobs and investments, it is not the Government – made public its intention and its commitment was joy. Joy, moreover, for a territory that, you should know, is the most punished for the time and on which we have to work and we have to compromise..., and you have heard me say in this Parliament since the first day, and I have heard myself say the mayors of the territory and all the political groups that have come to ask to be interested in this issue, that our commitment to this project was total, it was absolute, but it would be good to do so. I think that, as things have ended, we can go with our heads very high and turn and look at the eyes at the veins and veins of the Tarragona area, but of the conjunction of Catalonia, that we have done things, not well, very well. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.71.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the assignment to the Vice-President of the Government and head of the Department of Economics and History of the organization and coordination of the reference]] [[317-00172/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Puigdemont, today we have known, through a medium of recognition prestige, which seems that you would have entrusted him with the organization and coordination of the reference to Mr. Junqueras. My question is very clear: have you entrusted him with the organization and coordination of the reference to Mr Junqueras? And if you don't, Mr. President, do you intend to do this task to Mr. Junqueras?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.73.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.74.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Albiol, I would have to say exactly when you say that you already recognize the prestige you are referring to, because these days we've seen each animaled in media of supposed prestige that has now left me a little confidence. Mr Albiol, you September of the year 2016 where was it? Why discover today or what to discover today, through a medium of recognition prestige, that Mr. Junqueras has the task of the government to prepare the reference that I announced to the question of confidence of September 2016..., man! It took a while to find out, didn't it? So, it's clear that Mr. Junqueras has this charge, and it's clear that he's doing it. And that's why some of you today have a different expression than they did in September 2016. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.75.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.76.0	Mr President, our expression is unbelief, I can assure you. In particular, look what I'm saying to you: Members of the People's Party of Catalonia are wishing that you arrive on October 1st to see how [[applause]] and who of you assumes responsibility for the breach of the process. Because I can assure you that the spectacle of seeing the Members of the same group bartering to transcend responsibility is a spectacle that, if we're not talking about what we're talking about, we could say that it's, after all, grotesque. Miri, Mr. Puigdemont, you have gone from being subdued to being ridiculed – to ridiculing – because, as day D or day 1 of October approaches, they start trembling the camels. And the information that appears here is evident: the episode, after we talk about it, of former councillor Baiget; the statements of the president of the Barcelona Parliament of his party, and the statements of a mayor of Girona's districts, are evidence of this fact. It is clear that you have become a week-long independenceist, that you have become an independentist who, in favor of independence, if you do not touch our assets, if you do not put at risk what I have or what I do not have. And this is the greatest evidence that we are before a great lie, that you represent a report that, fortunately, every day has fewer people than he follows and fewer people who believe. You know, Mr. Puigdemont, why won't you have it, why won't you celebrate this reference? First, because they are trampled on; second, because it goes against legality, against the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy; because they have no institutional recovery; because they have no ballots, no paper, no cents, no locals, no functioning, and, above all, because they do not have, Mr Puigdemont, social support. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And in the end, I can assure you that all this is evident with a clear lack of size. Do you know what the reference is to call, Mr Puigdemont? – and I finish, Madam President. The reference in your party, to see what they think of your leadership. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.77.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.78.0	Yeah. Mr. García Albiol, in order not to hold anything... – no ballot boxes, no papers, no cents, no locals, no institutions, no social majorities, no political parties at the back –, you are as concerned as you are. I should be happy like a few steps, I should be dancing, fun to say, "Now we're laughing because October 1st will come and these people all that they've said so far won't. I've already told them what they can do, now fifteen days ago, if you're so clear, listen to me, commit, say: "How come there won't be any reference to me coming up with the promise that if there are ballots, I'll vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm going to vote that I don't – I'm going to vote that I don't – but I'm going to vote! As you will not do so, because in the background you have passed from an initial version, which you tried to engage in this government, to say: "This government is only prepared, or is preparing, because there are autonomous elections. And as this has already failed him, and as much as his... let's just say, his reference to recognizance led him away by saying what he has to say and what he has to think at every moment, that doesn't work. And to reality, coughing, advancing. And it went forward in the direction..., not the one the Government wants – which, of course, yes –, not the one that most of the Members of this Parliament want – which, of course, also wants – not the one that the vast majority of the assemblies of Catalonia want – of course, also – but the one that the people of the country want. Because if something says the questions, the behind them, the ones that are published in the communication media, and the ones that are not published in the communication media, it is that if something is happening in this country it is that there is a mobilization of people who want to go to vote. Because the only answer I have to answer to the problem that exists is the one proposed by the Government of Catalonia in the form of ballot boxes. And when that happens, the reaction of the people, mostly, in a democratically mature society, like Catalan, is to accept this tool, participate in it, and deliver a message. And, believe me, if there's one thing I can assure you at this point is that this government is absolutely committed to applying the outcome of sending the citizens through their vote to the polls. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.79.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generalitat about the denunciations, the real estate pressure, the index of the prices of lloger and the housing crisis]] [[317-00173/11]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.80.0	Thank you, President. President, I ask you this question because, in fact, you have to see different departments of your Government, but you have, above all, to see with political will, with determination and with the priorities of the Government. It is well known that the disarrays continue to be an absolutating reality in our cities and towns, and, in some cases, under forms of unheard-of cruelty. A few days ago, the Federation of Veterinary Associations of Barcelona denounced in a statement, which spoke of real-estate violence, the case of a woman in the barri de Sants who was denouncing... – a woman pregnant with new months and children – who was denouncing herself with a strong police contingent. And it's not the only case that has occurred in Barcelona in the last few days. And at the same time, he pointed out that this reality was conjugating with another reality no less..., perhaps less sorollous, but equally painful, from the point of view of the right to the habitation of the citizenry, that it is the expulsion of veneration under the pressure of a spiral of pris of the loguers. My question is the following, addressed to his Government: how is it that we still have coordination problems because there are denouncements under these conditions? And, second of all, a time that takes the price index of the logger, your government plans to take some measure because this is more than a simple indicator, than a simple transparency tool and can contain these disparate prices? In a word, is your government aware of the gravity and dimensions of the current housing crisis?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.81.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, you know perfectly well that this is a shared responsibility – shared – with many actors and especially, if we refer to the reality of Barcelona, shared also with the Barcelona Assembly. I believe that this government cannot be told by a government... that it has given more help and more action than ever before to the housing park of the social loguer, a government that has clearly fought against denunciations, which, moreover, has presented the index of reference of the loguer's price, can not accuse itself of looking at another side and not taking responsibility; we have assumed it all. What happens is that some have discovered, now that they are the government, that what is proclaimed since the barricade, when it comes to the government is not so simple [[some applause]] , and that it was more understood at the time of not only applying policies to which we have committed ourselves, which are complex, but, as we have seen this week, counting on the powers of the State, among them the judiciary, which I accompany you in any way when you think you are applying policies that go to the common objective: that there are suitable habitats, that there are no disclaimers, and that there are fewer vulnerable people, and that there is a public housing policy that is amenable to all the citizenship that you need.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.83.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.84.0	Thank you, President. Well, president, let's talk about barricades. Listen, I ask you a very specific question: how is it that, despite the fact that there are coordination and cooperation protocols between the courts and the social services of the assemblies, there are situations like what I have been thinking? How are the protocols failing like this? How can they deploy police forces to call a pregnant woman new to mesos? And that these cases, I repeat, are not unique. The Barcelona Assembly, let me tell you, does not only work against denunciations, but only cries out and collaborates with the citizenry that tries to stop these denunciations that are produced unannounced by jutjats. Therefore, I am, let's say it, very proud of an assembly that does not only work from the institution, but that tries to pal·liar there where the institutions fail. And this is the responsibility, and the question I ask you and your government: why do these coordination protocols fail? Why do these situations occur? This is the concrete question, and I would like a concrete answer from you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.86.0	Yes, thank you very much. Mr. Rabell, you know that for the specific case of Barcelona there is a specific protocol for Barcelona. There is a protocol that compromises the Administration of Justice to notify when these charges are produced. And it's the assembly that has to act accordingly. Therefore, if anything fails in this protocol, in any case, it is not attributable to the Government of the Generality. But let's say that, said that – said that – you can't pretend that this government, I insist, has looked at another side when it has faced its responsibility in the logue, in the denunciations, in the public housing policy. Miri, until the end of June 2017 – this year, therefore – through the tempteig right and retract the Generalitat has expanded its public park of social housing in 562 habitats. I have earmarked for this effect EUR 34_million, and the Legislature continues. And the year will end with a public park of more than 1,000 habitats. We have collected 18,5_million euros with the tax of empty habitats in 2016, which were destined to buy 350 floors for social use. And, of course, the payments to the logue and the urgent aid have increased: we have gone from EUR 500_million in 2012 to EUR 109_million – therefore, more than double – in 2016. Therefore, there are more resources than ever to attend to emergency situations. And we've made a commitment, and we know about the joints, and, I think, we know about the Barcelona joint, too. And if it's about understanding the difficulties an administration has at the time of applying the tools it has in its abyss to prevent what we all want to prevent, they think that understanding is absolute.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the compromise not to make the processing into a single reading in the laws of the referendum and of transitoryity and not to legislate on the electoral regime without counting at least with the majority of two thirds that establishes the Statute]] [[317-00171/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality, on the political and social situation, formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.88.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, if I may, I would like to begin by congratulating Councillor Jané on the release of the meeting of the Security Council of Catalonia. It's about time. All our support, counselor and president, to the unsurpassed effort of State-General cooperation in matters of security. My question, Mr President, is twofold, but very simple: is it possible to compromise before the House not to use the special procedure of single reading for the adoption of laws as transcendental as they claim to employ the convocation of '1 October and the no less important of disconnection, transitionality or Catalan legal regime, as indicated in the recent opinion of the Catalonian Council of State Guarantees? And the other: Mr President, can you compromise before the House not to legislate in whole or in part on the Catalan electoral system without counting on the support of two thirds of Parliament, as established by the Statute of Catalonia's Autonomy?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.90.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, in the first place, thanked him for congratulating the Government on the Security Board of Catalonia. You know that if this joint was blocked for someone, it wasn't for this government, exactly. That said, you ask me things that a part of the answer is to be done by parliamentary groups, because the reform that allows is not that the government can do the one-reading procedure, that this already has reserved, is that the parliamentary groups can do it. So..., now I hope you don't ask me – you, precisely – that if something is foreseen in the law, I can't use it. Why, if something previews it and allows me to do it, do I explicitly give up doing it? Go on, if we get into this logic, Mr. Iceta, we could all put together a lot of duets, then, hard to compliment. On legislation and its majorities to adopt them, it seems to me that all of us can agree that, although in some case – and you mentioned the Statute – two thirds for their approval, as everyone knows this did not serve any purpose; because the Constitutional Court has done enough to deal with a minority of deputies and members of the Constitutional Court to charge these famous two thirds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.91.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.92.0	Never in such a short time, in such a short time, so much contradiction. For one band, he says to me: "If the law permits it, I will do it, and says: "And if the law does not allow it, I will also do it. This is the summary of the intervention that I had just done. [[Greetings.]] The statutory guarantee board says that it is only possible to use the special legislative procedure of one reading – I quote – when the nature of the project or proposal of the law advises it or that the simplicity of its formulation allows it. Do you believe that the proposals of the law to which I referred, qualified for your own history, can be processed in a hurry and in currents and, as the Guarantee Board says – and I quote literally – significantly limiting the possibilities of participation of minorities in the process of drafting the standard? The Council of State Guarantees says that the use of the single reading must be used exceptionally, he says, for the approval of legislative initiatives that do not require an extensive deliberative process and parliamentary work because of the lack of political or social relevance of its object or because of the lack of technical complexity of its processing. Do you honestly believe that the laws that you intend to approve in this way meet this requirement? And, I don't want to say it anymore, if you're pretending to skip the Statute of Catalonia's autonomy to make haste and currents and in any way, stifling the rights of the opposition, violating what we all decided and that the citizens of Catalonia voted, president, it's all said, don't count on us; but here I go again: do not place the institutions of Catalonia outside the state of law. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.94.0	Thank you very much. Mr Iceta, on the state of law, these days in the Parliament of Catalonia we have not had a good show, as the Spanish State understands the application of the state of law, and also in the Congress of Deputies; certainly with its complicity. You say that the State of Catalonia has jumped on us and that we have not seen what the citizens of Catalonia voted for by jumping on us the State of Catalonia. So, fakes. Because the Statute of Catalonia we have today is not what the citizens of Catalonia voted for. [[Greetings.]] And I'm not saying it; a president said it..., said it an autonomous community president of his party, who recognized, and honor, that Catalonia is the only autonomous community in the Spanish State that applies to it a status that has not voted for its citizens. So if we're talking about who has violated the fact that the citizens of Catalonia have voted, not us, it's the Constitutional Court with a follow-up of appeals. [[Greetings.]] Let him also say that I hope you do not ask the Parliament of Catalonia..., or that you do not think that the Parliament of Catalonia must have fewer rights than the Spanish Parliament for doing the handling of questions. I would like to remind you that the unique reading in the Spanish parliament has been used to reform the Law of the Constitutional Court – certainly, it did not pass through the Board of Spokesmen – or even endorse the change in the head of the State. And, therefore, if the Government of Catalonia or the Parliament of Catalonia wants to use a procedure that is perfectly endorsed and foreseen in the reform of the Rules to complete its proposal, it will do so. It will do so even if you count on active or passive opposition on your part. Because they have already shown in the past that if you in Parliament don't get together and in the ballot box, you were able to go to the Constitutional Court because you do the work that the citizens of Catalonia don't do. [[Greetings and remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.95.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the fact that the middle class and the Catalan working class are still under the highest tax pressure in the whole state.]] [[317-00170/11]] Fourteenth question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for the Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.96.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, Citizens in Congress have managed to ensure that workers who earn less than EUR 14 thousand per year do not pay IRPF, a measure that will benefit hundreds of thousands of Catalans and that I am sure you will celebrate. But the 2016 income campaign has just ended and it has again been found that between fourteen and thirty thousand euros per year in Catalonia we have the highest tax rate in Spain because you have decided to do so. I do not ask you for tax details, that we already know that you refer those details to the advisors, but I ask you a very easy question: why have they decided that middle-class and working-class families in Catalonia are the ones who pay the most from all of Spain? And, above all, are you going to take steps to stop this from happening? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.97.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that, in the best of the conditions of the workers, and precisely of the autonomes, the merit is sufficiently divided, and I also let him say that the merit is not only from Ciutadans, but that there is merit of opposition groups or some that we do not have nor parliamentary groups that we have been sufficiently decided because some of the best of the autonomes can be realized. You describe a situation that I described earlier. When we defended the assumptions and the design of the taxation of assumptions, you heard me say to myself, and I want to reiterate, that in Catalonia, in our view, we do not have a specific problem of low fiscal pressure and that, if there was any margin to improve, it was precisely in lower returns; of course it is. But it is also true, and at the same time we must be responsible, that the system to finance Catalonia's autonomy that the Spanish State has predicted does not allow the efforts made by Catalans to reverse their benefits. And, therefore, there are luxuries that other autonomous communities can afford because they have the generous input and understanding of the State that we in Catalonia can't afford.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.99.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.100.0	Mr Puigdemont, let's talk about today. And you in the Congress of Deputies are neither relevant nor decisive nor punctured or cut anything. I'm sorry, they were, but not now, you don't mind recognizing it. [[Greetings.]] And it does not matter to recognize any merit of Citizens either: the law of autonomous, the first time it has been approved, that where more autonomous there is in Catalonia. Have no mania to recognize the merits of Citizens. But you say that the asphyxiation in the IRPF to the Catalan middle class is due to « Spain robs us and this is another falsehood of its government. And do you know why, Mr. Puigdemont? Because it turns out that Catalans who earn 150.000 euros a year are the least paid in Spain. Come on, there's no tax deficit here or anything! Now, if you earn fifteen_ thousand euros in Catalonia, the Government of the Generalitat makes you pay more than in any other autonomous community. But if you earn 150,000 euros a year, then it makes you pay below the Spanish average. Moreover, if you cared about the financing system of the Autonomous Communities, you would go to the Conference of Presidents to defend the interests of Catalans. But where you have to fight, where you have to debate and where you have to defend Catalans, you are neither here nor expected. They've been in the government for eighteen months, Mr. Puigdemont, and there's a big lie for every one of those months. The main one, no doubt, is when you promised independence very strongly in eighteen months. Remember? Well, it's past 10 July and we're still Catalan, Spanish, European. The next lie, of course, is the referendum, which you know lies when you promise a referendum, as you know you lied when you promised to declare independence in eighteen months. And those counselors who dare to tell the truth, you take and dismiss them, because in this government it seems that realism and truth and sincerity have no room. I ask you: do not extend your government, because it will only extend the list of unfulfilled promises. Also to your voters, Mr Puigdemont, do not forget. Put the election ballot boxes, the real ballot boxes, and let us choose a government that says the truth, that is realistic, that does not lie, that has a project for the future for all Catalans and, above all, that does not make cheap excuses to continue suffocating at taxes to the middle and working class. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.101.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.102.0	Thank you very much. I know, Mrs. Arrimadas, that you have to give support to a government like that of the People's Party, you need to get along well with that which still a lot of people from your party have not just heard, and then I will refer to it. They're asking for a little more rigour. I have never uttered the phrase you just said another time today of "Spain in our clothes." Rigor, please, Mrs. Arrimadas. Please – please – rigor, because without rigor it won't go far. Miri, you're talking about the Presidents' Conference, the economic finance. Time is giving us reason. Exactly what advents do you say you've made in the financing system? So, if we have to take into account what actually explains to us those who do participate in it, of course, head, not one. And this time, fortunately, the blame will no longer be on Catalonia, the fact that there is no good financing system for all of us. I didn't promise independence. I said that the citizens of Catalonia would have the opportunity to decide whether this country should be independent and we would do everything possible to be prepared for this eventuality, which is exactly what we are doing. And about dismissals, about sincerity, about realism, I'll read you some sentences that are said to be less than a_me, a person who was his spokesman, and some deputies who were his spokespersons to the Valencian country. You were accused of discriminating against the Valencians, who were not tolerant of the internal discrepancy, who had suffered assimilation and practices of the Gestapo's own mafias as recordings, because the ideals of social democracy had been abandoned and you had an excess of concentration of ultrasonics in your party. That's not what I'm saying; that's what you said just now – he was removed – was your spokesman for the Valencian Courts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.103.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the valuation of the investment of Hard Rock to the complex of oci and tourism of Vila-seca and Salou]] [[317-00174/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the latest political events, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.104.0	Thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, at the last plenary session we asked him whether he considered, President, that the political process that Catalonia was experiencing was frightening or not the economy. And the data, which are accounted for, which are coughing and irrefutable, showed just the opposite; all the economic indicators, therefore, were positive as to growth, as to occupation, etcetera, right? It is obvious that now the challenge, as we have always said and continue to defend, is that this is translated into worthy and worthy contracts for everyone. There is no doubt – and today it has been mentioned, President – that one of the basic pillars of our economy, one of them, and very important, is tourism. And this week, we also want to mention, we have heard news that sense of doubt can give a great boost to this sector and, more importantly, it places us perfectly as a reference destination at world level. And we are referring, yes, to the reverse compromise for Hard Rock to Vila-seca and Salou, a final reversal of more than 2,000_million euros, to build an integrated tourist complex, with an initial phase of 665_million euros, and that this first phase will therefore entail a generation of 11,500 places of direct and indirect work, in more than one area – Camp de Tarragona, the Lands of the Ebre – in a demarcation in which the figures of the day are precisely not good or positive. And, therefore, the positive effect in this territory will still be greater. And, besides, here we have to add-there, in this reversal, a follow-up of synergies and multiplier effects also with other important operators who are there or who have been committed to being there, right? So, now, we have known, now, the realization of a project, which has improved a lot and which offers many guarantees, both those offered by the same operator as that required by the Government of the Generality, we believe that it can have very positive results for the economy, but also especially for very many people, for very many people who, through this project, can see a professional exit and a job exit. We want to congratulate so many, so many people who have participated in it, that it has made it possible, but obviously we also want, President, that, together with the President of the Government of the Generality, you give us an appreciation of what this investment announced by Hard Rock to Vila-seca and Salou can suppose.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.105.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.106.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Turull, this has been – as I have said before and I want to reiterate today, now, because I think it is worth doing so – a great news, long awaited, long worked out, not exempt from very extraordinary difficulties, some of which could be seen in this very Parliament at a certain time, but that in the end it ended very well, in line with what we all wanted: ambitious and sustainable project, project that has very positive effects on our economy and our labour market and project, also, that has very, very important effects in what is our country's tourism sector. What does this inversion of Hard Rock mean, which announced after working long and with a job, allow me to 'hold too, very discreetly, on behalf of the government – and would like to congratulate all the members of the government who have worked there all these years? You mean trust in the country. Trust that a country is worthy of receiving this investment and where these jobs can be created that can guarantee the viability and sustainability of the project. Trust in a touristic sector, because this is not a newsletter that doesn't exist in a nothing; this is not in a territory that is very fertile, that has a lot of expertise and has a lot of tourist excellence, as is obviously the whole area of Tarragona. And trust in the government, too, because all the passes we've given them have given them in agreement and mutually accompanying us, because they had to prove – and they've proven it many times – that this is a government that they could trust, and that's why they've announced a reversal of this fall. And what do you mean, too? You mean conviction in the future. No one announces an reversal of these characteristics, no one compromises their trademark – because it is the most important value that Hard Rock has, which is its own name –, but clearly believes in the possibilities of our country; because they also read the other indicators that persist..., they do not read according to what reference press, for which I see, of some of our illustrious hemicle companies, they read the serious press. What's the serious press say? Says the foreign investment in Catalonia beats memories... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, I know that it bothers this, but it is the truth – the direct foreign investment is the better of history, which is exported more than ever, which is more exportable than ever, that we are growing up in business at a higher rate than the joint venture of the Spanish State, and therefore this is a unique territory where we can make serious and future investments. And we know that it will have positive side effects, it will have positive effects on the port, it will have positive effects on Reus airport, it will have positive effects on cities all around it. Is it that no one has called the attention that the majority, not to say all the gatherings in the area, of the color that follows, have fought like the first ones because this project was realized? What was the government supposed to do? So, accompany them, let themselves be accompanied and make things finally sound like they've come out. We are truly very happy, and it will be one of the actions of this government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.107.0	Thank you, President. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for changes in the composition of the Government]] [[350-00003/11]] After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. The second item on the agenda is: appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for changes in the composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure, and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the House of Commons, I give the word to the President of the Generality, the very Honourable Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.108.0	Good morning, Madam President. Mr Vice President, Councillors and Councillors, Members and Deputies, indeed, I appear on my own motion in compliment also of the Law of the Presidency of the Generality, Law 13/2008 of 5 November, which in its article 23.3 says that the President must appear before Parliament in order to account for the structure and composition that the Government adopts to constitute itself, and also for subsequent modifications, and this is the reason why I appear before you all today. When there is a reshaping of the government, in all governments, small or large, it is a requirement that it is reflected in Parliament as soon as possible. And I, just to make it effective, signed the letter addressed to the Speaker of Parliament so that I could appear before all of you and give the appropriate explanations. It's nothing new, this has already happened in the past. If we go to the past recently, in the last twelve, thirteen years, we will see that 2004, 2006, 2008, 2011, 2013, 2015 the President of the Generalitat at that time requested, for the same reasons that I request today, the appearance before all of you to explain. This is also going to happen in the future; it is going to happen, if it does, that it does not fit itself now, but if it does, in the same current legislature, and if it does, of course, in the later governments. All governments, all of them, also this one from Catalonia, when they think that there has been a need to make changes, small or big, sometimes by reason..., and then I will explain the reasons for these changes, that they can be some political, others can be trusted, others can be personal, and they can always pass these eventualities, the government that is to come and, with all normality, with all nature, without any type of drama, can explain themselves before the chamber. Why? So, quite simply: because the president has the right to appoint and has the right to cease members of the government. It is more, it has the responsibility to do so if it thinks it is appropriate and, naturally, it has the obligation to do so if some of its members can ask for it, for various reasons, they can be personal or they can be political. It's your responsibility to do so, whether you're grateful or not. And a government like ours, yes, independentist, has no right less than autonomous governments or anti-autonomist governments; we have the same right. And, therefore, we need to explain ourselves in the same conditions that governments have explained themselves in the past and that governments will explain themselves in the future that are well-off presided over by a president who believes that the time has come to take the decisions of the remodeling that can make its execution better. I think I'm exercising this responsibility, ladies and gentlemen. No insult, no grollery will tell me, let them be clear. I can say it higher, I can say it in the way of some of the illustrious porters of the gesticulating and crying opposition. I say so, but this responsibility, when it comes to, if it touches, I will exercise it with all responsibility and consequences. I ask them, if I can ask them for anything – I certainly can't ask them for anything, but I hope they understand the request I make them – that in the formulation of legitimate criticisms, absolutely legitimate, apply the dose of moderation and calm that they say so much to miss in the others. I said it and I want to repeat it here: Counsellor Baiget has done a very good job. I've said it myself, and I've said it in public, and you know perfectly well what I think of your work. And so did Councilman Vila to Culture, and I said that publicly and privately. And I'm sure that Councilman Puig, who loves his trajectory, even though some have wanted to lose his characteristic of being a lover of traditional and popular culture and being an expert, this trajectory will support him to be a great Councilman of Culture, and he knows that he has my confidence and knows that I also appreciate the trust that he has given us all pleas to accept this charge. Of course, I am proud of the work done by all counselors and counselors, without exception – without exception. In addition, the composition of governments is based, as you also know, on confidence, that, if I may, it is still more necessary in a context such as the present, a land, sea and air set-up context on the part of the Government of the State, on the part of its parliamentary partners, on the part of the State's apparatuses and on the part of the large communication groups, which say they have contrasted solvency means. When I had the reasons to believe that Parliament could have lost confidence in the government or in me as president, I did not doubt submeter 'but a question of trust; I applied it to myself. If I had any doubts as to whether or not the Parliament trusted the government, and in particular my person as president, I wanted to clarify these doubts. Because for me it is decisive whether or not I count on the confidence of the chamber, and whether or not I count on the trust of my government. And it's logical to think – and I think so – that the members of the government also get the same. Why is it so important or why do I put so much emphasis on trust? Why is that for me, anyway? Honestly, because we would hardly be able to ask the citizenry that you entrust to your Government if the Government did not apply with the demand that the moment, and the moment, demands, takes into account its transcendence, the maximum self-requirement. Two people who have very different opinions can have a lot of confidence, and two people who think the same can have very little, a little or people. Therefore, trust has nothing to do with ideologies or opinions. Perhaps to some of those who have wanted to confuse these days does not pass them, but to me often passes, that of having confidence with people who think differently, and, in fact, to the present government there are people who think differently, and some clearly. And, also, as I said, this has nothing to do with the fact that there can be this essential confidence because a government can bring its proposal to fruition, especially in this context that I have indicated as much as possible on the part of the State, its apparatuses, its associates and its partners. Therefore, all the interpretation that escapes this explanation is naturally free to do – you have all the freedom to do it – but it faces a small inconvenience: that is not certain. And even though they have managed to publish real animals, they have not ceased to be animals for publications. Some believe that they are part of the inventive, fictional and fantasy ability of some of these credible diaries for some illustrious member of this chamber. And let me reflect, with all the warmth of the world. It's been a while... among many of the mantras that you've shown, there's not one that's addressed it to me in a very particular way. You have said: "This government of yours has done it. You're not the president of this government, because they designed others. And so much so that I told them that this government felt it to me and made it to me from day one. So much so that I can say here today that I trust all the members of the government who sit before you. You say: "This government has imposed it on you, and therefore it is not its government. And you're going here to make a change and, listen to me, you've taken over... you've had a reaction that, frankly, made me fear even for your salvation, because you've hyperventilated so much, that I've come to suffer. Listen to me, I've made a change! Shouldn't it be, let's say, a sign in the way of which you found yourself missing from the former government the fact that the President has exercised his constitutional and statutory authority – I haven't made a mess – to appoint a counselor? Now that I'm naming a counselor or I'm making some changes to the execution now, it doesn't seem like... they've just been fine. So maybe the problem was another one. Perhaps the problem is that you should learn to respect and consider legitimate also a government in which you have discrepancies. Maybe who has a problem with the discrepancies are you, because they don't accept that a government that doesn't think how you can do what they do the rest of the world's governments, and that I hope that if it ever happens to you to rule, they will claim their right to do it. So let's keep in mind that the hemerotecs exist, so that at the time of accreditation or discrediting the changes to the Government, let's know that everything – everything – comes back, and that's why I can say that if you're left with some question of interpretation as to why a president can exercise the right to appoint and cease members of his Government make my own, completely my own words pronounced in this chamber, that give the following: "But the leadership doesn't exercise easy rhetorical and oratory exercises, the leadership takes risks, without taking any responsibility at the moment. The leadership is exercised before any other consideration of the general interest of the country, and the president has demonstrated how no one takes the right decision at the most difficult times, without hanging on to any consideration of personal convenience or party. Any 2006, Mr. Miquel Iceta, then with reference to President Maragall. Apply that same criteria and you will also understand the reasons for which I ask you not only respect, that I understand that I have, but understanding it for the changes that you already know. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.109.0	Thank you, President. Representatives of parliamentary groups will then speak for a maximum of two minutes each. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, but I understand that they are taking some last notes. Wait for us, Mrs. Rimadas. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.110.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, I was actually hoping for more explanations from you. The truth is that you haven't even introduced us to the new counselor, you haven't even told us about your career, your resume, why you think you're going to do a good job. It seems to me that you were already on other tracks. I want to welcome the new advisor and wish him well. You're actually an unusual president... – since your president hasn't done it, at least I do it, right? , the head of the opposition. [[Greetings.]] And you're an unusual– unusual– president: you don't run for election, you focus on an obsession that's not on your election program, because the referendum isn't on your election program, Mr. Puigdemont – read it, read it, read it, there's no independence referendum on your election program – and you also dismiss your advisors for strange reasons. We will not doubt that you have the ability to cease or dismiss a counselor, that no one doubts it, what is very strange are the reasons why you do it. For example, you don't stop your advisors when you don't know the subject you are managing, that there would be some example here; you don't dismiss your advisors when they don't comply with your election program, when they don't legislate on their subject, when they don't solve the problems in your sector. He does not dismiss advisers when they do not comply with parliamentary resolutions, for example Mr Baiget. It has not complied with parliamentary resolutions on university fees that have been adopted here. But you don't dismiss him for that, you dismiss Councillor Baiget for being honest, for telling the truth, for daring to recognize himself in public what many of you say in private. That is why you have dismissed a counselor; not because you do not work well, not because you do not comply with parliamentary resolutions, not because you do not know about your subject, not because you are sincere. Mr Puigdemont, you also know that what Mr Baiget said is true. You, when you promised independence with that clarity in eighteen months, you knew you were lying. And you also know now that you lie when you promise a referendum. And you used to say such words as: "In the months we will have our state, which no one has doubt. Home, because I think it has passed on 10 July and we are still Catalan, Spanish and European here. You did make that promise. And when I promised independence in eighteen months you knew I was lying, Mr. Puigdemont. And you know he lies when he promises a referendum for October 1st. And you have betrayed a comrade of your party for telling the truth, for being honest, Mr Puigdemont. I honestly believe that's not done. And, by the way, I also want to say that it seems to us that you left Mrs. Marta Pascal in a very bad place, that minutes before you stopped Mr. Baiget she was putting her hand on fire saying that Mr. Baiget was going to arrive on October 1st and that there was no problem. Do you know who you reminded me of at the time, Mr. Puigdemont? – by the way, another woman. To Mrs. Munté, when she said clearly in the press conference that you had not met Mr. Rajoy. And she said... I am also convinced that when Mrs. Munté said so, just like what Mrs. Pascal said, she was convinced of what she was saying. The problem is that you lie to your team, the problem is that you lie to your own partymates and sometimes leave them in the wrong place. And I don't know about that, Mr. Puigdemont. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, especially because you do it normally with, well, certain people, don't you? You don't tell the truth or your team, how are you going to tell the truth to the Catalans, Mr Puigdemont? You speak here that it is the opposition groups that have a problem with 1 October. No, no; those who have a problem, a problem, are you: you will not be able to fulfill it. No one will come to us to say to us: "Oh, you have promised us independence in eighteen months and have not done so, and you have promised us a referendum and have not done so, no; you will come to you, Mr Puigdemont, to you. And I say more to you: you are very brave here, but then before the courts we see how you blame the officials. Mrs Borràs – who now I don't see her around here – then writes to the TSJ saying that the ballot boxes are for the AMPA and for the trade union elections. Mr Puigdemont, who is not serious, that there are many people to whom you have deluded with this subject and are lacking respect; not only to us, the non-independentists, who call us everything, that we are not democrats, practically like we are neither Catalans, no, no; to yours – to yours – Mr Puigdemont. You're making them go out on the street, devote their time, their family time, put money, for a big lie, Mr. Puigdemont. And when someone dares to tell the truth, you take it and dismiss it. Not because we do not work, not because we do not know about the subject, not because we do not legislate, not because we do not comply with parliamentary resolutions, no, no; to tell the truth, the truth that will also be seen from now on. If it is that you are the only good thing that you have certainly done is to put in a expiration date, already close. If we're already here on October 1st. If I am looking forward to seeing you at last, let me see what excuse you make to tell your own people again: "No, it is that, look, the Government of Spain..., and so on. Mr Puigdemont, the only thing you are going to achieve, as Mr Mas has achieved, is not going to be independence or a referendum, you are going to achieve is to charge your party – your party – to Convergence, a party that here was just a few years ago sixty-two Members. Mr Mas, when he had sixty-two deputies and was president of the Generalitat, we, who had three and who were there in the henhouse – I was not even here or in politics – treated us as an almost negligible minority, since his sixty-two deputies. And now it's... I don't really know how many of you are going to have in the next election. And I don't know what many of those who are still in their party think about their strategy. I do not know if you agree that Mr Junqueras is growing more and more in the polls because of his mistakes, Mr Puigdemont. That I don't know how you did it, because Mr. Junqueras was supposed to be responsible for organizing the referendum. Well, it gives me – it gives me – that when you notice the failure of October 1st, it is you who will pay the most, more than the lords of Esquerra. Because they are playing a very difficult thing, which is to be more independent than Esquerra and to be more anti-system than the CUP. And it's going to be very bad for you; it's going to be very bad for you, Mr Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] I honestly..., the process not only involves a waste of time for Catalans, a loss of opportunity, a loss of resources, it's going to be the convergence point. Between the cases of corruption and the trial you are going to charge a party that had been hegemonic in Catalonia. I don't know what the few who still remain in the Democratic Party of Catalonia think about their management at the head of the party, but perhaps – perhaps – you have quite a few discrepancies in your own party about your way of leading the project. I only say to you, Mr Puigdemont, fortunately there is little left for you to visualize: just as you have seen this Monday, on 10 July, that you lied to the Catalans, to your voters, promising independence in eighteen months, you will see on 1 October that you have again failed to fulfil your promises, Mr Puigdemont. I believe that you have achieved, as I have said many times, a difficult thing, which is to divide into two, into two groups, Catalan society, and to defraud us and lie to us both. Because you're not just any independenceist social majority, it's that you've deluded the independenceists and you're not going to give them anything; you're not going to give them anything, you: neither independence nor a referendum nor absolutely nothing, just a great waste of time and a great collective frustration. And those of us who come behind, Mr Puigdemont, we will have to manage among all and responsibly a great collective frustration, Mr Puigdemont. And, you, the best thing is that you know. Here there will be a collective frustration, in Catalonia, very important. And I guarantee you that we will live up to the responsibility of participating in this project at this new stage. Because a new stage is coming, Mr. Puigdemont. Because you claim that there is no other way to manage Catalonia, there is no alternative project. And I say to you: when your project is shown to fail, you will not be able to participate in an alternative project in Catalonia, because you have denied it exists. You say there's no alternative. Well, then, when you see that your path remains dead, you will not be able to and will not participate, with the remaining seats, in a new political stage in Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont. And it is certainly amazing, it is amazing what you have achieved in your own party in recent times, it is amazing: good for Catalonia, nothing; good for your party, neither. And here the only ones that seem to be wearing their boots, politically speaking and electorally speaking, are their Esquerra partners, Mr Puigdemont, their Esquerra partners. Because you are playing the game only to Republican Left of Catalonia, to your political opponents with whom you fight in municipal plenary every day, to that party; it is the only ones that you seem to be benefiting. I'm just asking you, Mr. Puigdemont, to put in the actual ballot boxes. I don't need to prolong this agony; I'm really telling you. There is another alternative project in Catalonia, there are people prepared to take over the reins of Catalonia, there are many things to do. And I tell you one thing: calling elections and actually putting ballot boxes is going to be the only useful, the only legal and the only thing for all Catalans that you are going to do throughout your mandate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.111.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. Miquel Iceta, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many honourable President, when I listened to your intervention, allow me to say to you, preventive rather than explanatory, I could not feel the satisfaction..., and I would like to thank you, therefore, that you have made an express mention, in the end, in the form of a quote..., and to tell you that, in reality, if you find inspiration in my quotes, things still have to do. [[Give me the applause.]] But you thought it appropriate to introduce changes in the composition of the government. It's his responsibility; we don't think we can discuss his attribution, or just his convenience. We would have appreciated an explanation, not even a summary. But, anyway, it's his responsibility. Among other things, because we do respect the State. And, President, let me say, if at some point you, your parliamentary group, your government, cease to respect the Statute, you would no longer deserve political and institutional respect as President and as the government. Because you're president, you're government, because you've been there. You thought it necessary to carry a counselor who said loudly that others, perhaps, think or murmur with a low voice. All right. You have decided to replace him with another member of the government and cover the vacancy that this one left. We have, therefore, new business advisor, Mr Santi Vila, and new culture advisor, Mr Puig. We wish them luck and certainty. But since we don't want them badly, we don't want them to get a long warrant. [[Rialles.]] Because, Mr President, the legislature is exhausted politically. You had to take the country to independence in divided months, and you didn't do it. The truth is that they couldn't do it for material reasons, but they couldn't do it after they lost the plebiscite in the words that you yourself had planted, when they decided to convert the last elections to parliament into plebiscite elections and there was no citizen majority for independence. Yes, there is – and we have never denied its legitimacy – a parliamentary majority for independence. But I don't like to talk about lies, falsehoods; I think we don't have to carry the words, we don't have to carry the intention that they are sometimes made of life and always opinionable... But it's that, listen to me, you haven't created any state structures that wander beyond the powers that are now recognized by the State; nor have you started a process that is social and popular – I literally quote your commitments. You haven't proclaimed independence. They have not disconnected respect for the Spanish legal order. They have not approved the law of transition or the law of the process, they have not called constituent elections, they have not created the independent state, they have neither approved the Catalan constitution, nor, therefore, they have been able to ratify in reference to the said constitution. That's the full route. [[Greetings.]] These are the months you drew. Certainly, to life a change; life, sometimes, obliges you to modify your plans. And that's legitimate. But it's also legitimate for the opposition to say today that you were compromised. It was the actions that I was supposed to have completed in divided_months. We can count on it – from the celebration of the elections, from the constitution of the Parliament, from its investiture – ; this term has passed without having verified any of the objectives of the full route of its electoral commitments, some objectives that have now been replaced by a reference that had already been given by and for which, as the Catalonian Council of State Guarantees has unanimously reminded us, the Generality has no competences. I have already said, Mr President, in a control session: I believe that his problem is that he has committed himself to doing something he cannot do. But in any case, as, little or much, we have converted this question into a question of faith and, in the end and in the end, not so much for October 1, so we will see. But it has also been discussed these days if it is necessary to strengthen the government from the point of view of the organization of what you intend to celebrate October 1. You, in your parliamentary office, commissioned Vice-President Junqueras and Councillor Romeva to organize the referendum on more than one occasion, but for now, the only member of his government who seems to have tried to do so is Councillor Meritxell Borrás. Maybe I'll call a referendum advisor, I don't know how to calibrate. But, given the success achieved so far, Mr. President, I would often ask you to take responsibility for it yourself. A declaration approved by the Parliament on 9 November 2015, which meant the iniciator of the legislature, strongly stated that it was not subject to the decisions of the Constitutional Court. Since then there have been many occasions in which, even you yourself, have resorted to it in the High Court; well, it has even given them the reason, among other things, in the question of the Parliamentary Group of the PDECAT to the Senate. Therefore, what it was, we would say, the obvious proof that it was intended to disconnect has been since the first moment denied by the parties. Nor have they developed the conclusions of the Constituent Process Study Commission, which we will soon make the first anniversary: the phase of the participatory process – I say I have lost it– ; the creation of a social forum constitute– I have also known how to see it –, a social forum constitute from which a binding mandate for the members of one – allow me, here perhaps I raise a little the ghostly assembly constitute from which we have never heard to speak – fortunately, so to speak. Now all this is subject to the celebration of a referendum that I think will not be able to celebrate, maybe it will be collected in the own electoral program, that we are always of point and follow more than point and apart, and this also has benefits to life. But, President, you must understand that, from the point of view of the opposition, we consider the government's objectives to be lacking in credibility, exhausted, exhausted in its own logic. And the problem is not its concrete composition, with or without a referendum advisor; the problem is a misreading of the election result, a misset of objectives and a wrong sort of instruments to accomplish them. In this context, trusting in the success of his mission, "the company – he had written – is strictly a question of faith. This does not go without saying that he wants to reiterate his best wishes for his Government, in that he has the whole government's task of improving the concrete living and working conditions of the citizens and citizens of Catalonia. Allow me to say that I am the first, or, as I am very humble, the second, to celebrate the economic successes of Catalonia. Allow me to say that I am pleased with the announcement that Hard Rock was able to make with the Recreation and Tourism Centre of Vila-seca and Salou, that you know that we from the first moment, in contrast, against the partners of the then, against some of the partners of that time, we have always defended. Allow us to celebrate the Happily Gathered Security Board. You're right, too many years, but at the end of the poor's house the joys last so little that we celebrate them in betzef. And so we're happy that you've been able to get together and that there's this fortnight of agreements and we'll love to be able to discuss them with the councillor when the councillor feels it's appropriate to come and explain them. Because, listen to me, we want this to go well. And the only negation we have is that the political foundation of his government can prevent him from wandering well. And this is the legitimate separation of visions and policy options that is produced in this room. I hope, and from your words perhaps too preventive to the iniciator, that there is no malaise, at least for what you do to our group, of the strict will to continue working on everything that we consider to be good for the country. To congratulate them on their uncertainties when there is no doubt, but also to warn them, Mr President – and I can't be doing it – which we consider not only a mistake, but can have some very negative consequences not only for you and your government, but for all Catalans. This is the essence of democracy. And I..., if with anything I wanted to end this intervention is with an appeal to respect; to respect the laws, if I may, but to respect among all of us, among all the ideas expressed in democracy. With all the limitations of a perfectable system, sense of doubt, but so far it has provided us with the longest period of freedom and prosperity of our people. And in this sense – and I finish – to wish the councillors Puig and Vila very uncertain, but, as I said in a word, we would say, minor, but that you will understand with a component of the opposition, a short life, so that we can all pass to a new life much better. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.113.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.114.0	Thank you. Thank you, President. Very honorable, feeling his intervention left me a little surprised, made me think a little about the great illusionists, like David Copperfield, right? , that it is possible to make the Statue of Liberty disappear. You gave us an intervention where the country, the government, the crisis of government, its balance and its prospects disappeared. The disappearance is insurmountable. Miri, for weeks you have refused to come to this chamber, or have set out the idea of explaining your proposal for a reference. And finally, when you see it, you have to come to the chamber to explain a government crisis. A government crisis that has a lot to do with the full road, with the orientation of your government, with a political crisis of its orientation, and a crisis that is largely caused by the opacity with which you proceed not only respect this chamber, but apparently also by the opacity respects the same members of its execution. Because this crisis reveals something deeper than a simple remodeling of government or loss of trust or a personal theme. To our clear-cut view is the ass-of-sac in which is found the strategy of the present majority and to which you intend to respond with a hint of flight forward. It is clear that the crisis of government has closed to falsehood, President. The doubts and opinions expressed by the councillor... ex-counsellor Baiget, are widely shared by the members of his government. This is what everyone knows, as it reveals every time someone speaks, that the Lady Conesa speaks... or as it reveals the fact that, I don't know, when you are looking for, for example, a commission for the reference, I think you might have to externalize it, this carrec, because from your government it seems that there is no mass of volunteers and there is no mess to take on this responsibility. President, if you are unable to co-ordinate your own government: how do you intend to do it, with Catalan society? The cessation of a counselor was not, in our opinion, a demonstration of firmness or strength of his government, but rather of fever. Miri, when we discussed the question of trust about a year ago, we told him that, in our opinion, it was a change of course. We literally say to him: "The idea of unilateral disconnection cannot be applied either to Catalonia, or to the external sympathies and supports that would be necessary to bring it forward. And that can't be done, we insist, by means of statements, that it's the only thing that so far has been shown to be able to do its government and the majority that supports it, that they haven't even, at these heights, recorded as they intended their reference law so theatrically bloated. « And this cannot be done – we add then, we said – « turning the scale to a decisive, perhaps majority, part of the same Catalan society. A substantial part of the citizenry that does not wish to break with Spain or that it would want to have a better fit without getting to separate, or turning the skein to a part of independence that does not share a full route that can lead to frustration, nor can it, we add, need social sectors that have other priorities. Priorities such as, for example, this guaranteed income of citizenship that if I hope that in this plenary we legally adopt it will have been, for all that, the fruit of the tenacity shown for years, and under succeeding governments of the Generality, for unions, social movements, venous movements and of course for the commission promoter. The difference between its mutant full routes, we have never stopped advocating an effective and international standard reference as a way of giving the word to the citizenry. And that's why we ended up saying one year ago: "A substantial part of our nation will not feel called for a call without guarantees, without real debate of alternatives, without clear and homologated standards. A convocation perceived as predetermined in its outcome and full of uncertainties for which it makes its hypothetical application will not convoke the citizenship of Catalonia. So, well, president, we're already there– we're already there. At this time, the report that you have published does not respect the resolution of the general policy debate of October 6, 2016 and clearly incompletes the Statute, is compared with the Constitution and does not gather any, not one of the international standards to be recognized as such. I mean, what you're talking about is not a reference, it's something else. I hope that this Parliament will have, as we have claimed, the opportunity to debate such a transcendental law with the necessary rigour and that you do not intend to force its approval in one reading. For example, it should be remembered that the Council of State Guarantees has been very clear in its recent opinion: they declare a contract not only to the Constitution but to the State the use of this single reading procedure to approve transcendent laws or derogations from the current legal order and to state that this practice, attention, would violate the rights of the opposition and would undermine the very function of parliamentary representation. Little joke. A few days ago, his members of the CUP wanted to end the Council of State Guarantees, they found it over. You, President, in a public appearance in a public act, have been recognising the moral authority and prestige of the Board of State Guarantees. And I'd ask you, what are we staying at? Will you take note of your opinion and give up processing for a single reading the famous law of the referendum? Or will you simply consider also about the Board of Statutory Guarantees? And we have told them more than once: it is inversely – inversely – moving forward with nine shares of national freedom and self-government climbing democratic rights acquired. And what you're implying with your project, with this Bill of Law, is literally an abolition of the right state. Not everything about the appearance of the law is law, nor everything about the flag of freedom is necessarily democratic. We say that the sun did that a law emanating from a simple majority proclaims, and I quote: "Being by any disposition that contradicts it and seeks to create an electoral authority when the State requires a majority of non-consensual to do so, it turns out, as a little, disturbing and very little democratic. President, the manic reports that we have heard and that we feel dojo in this chamber do not help to set up a social majority and some complicitys that advance the aspirations of the Catalan society, including – including – a scene in which this society can sort out the path of independence. And it's that Catalonia is not even a colony. Neither Spain, with all the heretical weaknesses of the Transition or aggravated by subsequent drifts and by the same policy of the PP authority, can be assimilated to a dictatorship. No one in the world sees it that way and no one will condone as legitimate a unilateral rupture of the current legal order. Neither is Spain the same as the government of the PP. Today, a third part of the Congress of Deputies is in favour of a referendum agreed to give a voice to the citizens of Catalonia. But a larger, wider majority is already on condition, in that very Congress of Deputies, to recognize the multi-nationality of Spain, to admit the gravity of the issue raised by Catalonia, to stop the feelings about the State, and to promote lives of dialogue. It is more convenient, but indeed, the recurring speech that Spain will never change, which if it were certain would be the only case in all the history of human civilization. For the way in which they persist, October 1 will have no reference; this is the only certainty we can say: for this way there will be no reference. But, on the contrary – on the contrary – there are many people who want to vote and who will want to vote, and still there are many more people, here and in the state, deeply angry, unhappy with the government of the PP. People who at this time, who are reactivating the economy, find that social inequalities and precariousness have become chronic, that wages are not recovered, that denunciations, as we spoke before, continue, but that, on the contrary, corruption seems omnipresent and the bank always wins. Precisely because we have a government that abuses the powers of the State, that criminalizes the adversary and judicializes the conflicts, the democratic aspirations of Catalonia – we say so – can only advance the path of complicity and broad alliances, as the National Referendum Pact intended to do. For us, it is a matter of broadening the social base of the right's supporters to decide, of promoting connivance with all those who want to go beyond the current status quo, and with all those who want to change in Spain, a change that has always had a lot to see with the democratic impulse of Catalan society. It is a matter, in short, of summarizing, President, of applying forces all respecting diversity, and not of radicalizing the convinced to the point of losing sight of democracy and of dividing our people. His government grinyola – and this crisis of government shows it – under the tension provoked by a scene of institutional confrontation that does not in any way represent a winning strategy for Catalan society. Counselor Jordi Baiget only expressed to him, he said, that the rest of his government knows and thinks; to the same as Mrs Mercè Conesa remembered. Simply put, Mr. Baiget said the emperor is naked. Coratge question? Look, our courage and honesty is what we ask of the Government and the President of the Generality. But he courages and honest to change course, not to get into an orientation that cannot overcome the immobilism of the Rajoy government, but that, on the contrary – on the contrary – is generating tensions within civil society, even the whole party of the referendum, that is in the wings of the democratic and progressive forces of Spain and that harms the democratic quality of this Parliament, as the announced reform of its Rules makes fear. We need, in short, President, a serious policy that builds majorities, that adds complicity and cohesion to Catalan society and makes it possible to decide its right through an effective, inclusive, recognized, homologated reference. That's the real repte. From this point of view, we think that you're walking away from this path and that the path you're on will only cause us to get spooky. This crisis of government is only the foreplay of others who will come, we fear. And from this point of view, still wishing, like the previous speakers, the best fortune to our counselors, I fear they would need something more than an individual, because the project of your government's collection did not go far enough. That's what we're afraid of. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.115.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.116.0	Bon dia another time, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I must admit to you, Mr President, with all sincerity, that your intervention has stopped me. It's got me down because, from the absolute political discrepancy with you, I recognize it a bravery; a bravery that in many cases is a bravery to the point of suicide, eh? , from a political point of view, but I recognize this action. And you have come here today with an absolutely defensive attitude, with a passive attitude; you have already come with the charassa, prepared. He was unable to justify with courage why he had to finish the..., led to the cessation of Councillor Baiget. He has come here to explain that it is the fruit, therefore, of the parliamentary tradition, of the tradition of the governments, to make remodelings of the Government; he has returned to us in time until thirty years, he has explained to us how many remodelings have existed at the length of the history of the Government of Catalonia, at the beginning of his intervention. And it is true, all governments, not so alone in the Parliament of Catalonia, in the governments of Catalonia, but in the governments of any democracy is two years of remodeling; but no remodeling, until now..., I don't know the rest of parliament compared, but no remodeling in the Parliament of Catalonia had been completed for the reasons for which you did apply it. Government remodelling is due to a resignation, a voluntary resignation, a disagreement, a political crisis issue... but until now, it had only been created to create a warning and warning regime for the rest of its government. You, Mr Puigdemont, are the only European policy of the 21st century that recognizes and assumes that your project is to create by: create by society, create by those who do not think like you. He lied with independence, he said that he would be among the divido_mesos, that in divido_mesos there would be independence, and now he's lying about the call and celebration of this independentist referendum, which you know perfectly well that it won't be celebrated. But yes, as I say, it is true, you are creating a climate of por in its surroundings. Look, I to my collaborators demand loyalty to the projects, but the collaborators, the good collaborators are those who have the ability to be able to freely express the discrepancies, which you have shown you do not allow. You are assuming the practices of the CUP in your own right. The CUP assigns you and you politically disappear. The CUP purged its candidate, Mr. Bathos, for recognizing that independence in the September 27 elections had not been achieved by a majority, and you have now purged Mr. Baiget for recognizing that Catalonia is leading to an unsustainable situation. Mr. Baiget is no doubt, he's a stone independentist, he's a convict of his cause, but he raised a very reasonable doubt, and you simply pulled him away. He had the pleasure of saying in public what they think in private and what they say in private most of you, starting with the same Mr. Junqueras. Do you know what's wrong with him, Mr Puigdemont? That you have a fever in doubt, you have a fever in doubt because you have allergy, because you have allergy to reality. And the reality is that it's been months since they put them in evidence that you're lying, that you're not going to independence or referenda. The deceptiveness of the process is becoming more evident every day. Look, you, Mr. Puigdemont – and I say it with all the respect of the world, indeed, because from a personal point of view you know that I have this respect – you have become these moments in the cross of Mr. Junqueras to finish infusing Convergence. His fanaticism prevents him from seeing that an important part of Catalan society is seeing. Mr. Junqueras is embarking on political suicide, and he, like Captain Aranya, will remain on the ground to collect the envelopes of his party's shipwreck. Didn't you ask yourself, Mr. Puigdemont, why did Mr. Junqueras not publicly defend his decision to cease Mr. Baiget? He didn't wonder why he didn't go out publicly? With attitudes like stopping Mr. Baiget to say what he thinks, you're putting another grit on a report that seems to love him, on a report, Mr. Puigdemont, that seems to love him. And you love to appear as the radical, the one you can't negotiate with, and, on the other hand, Mr. Junqueras is the dialoguer, the negotiator, and the political one able to come to terms. While you are ceasing advisors to say what they think, while you are not attending summits of presidents, the councillors of Esquerra Republicana do not miss a sectoral meeting convened by the Government of Spain. You, Mr. Puigdemont, every day you're more sunny, every day you're more sunny and alone, with less room for manoeuvre, and every day you're more used by Mr. Junqueras. This is not a decision between Spain and Catalonia, nor is it a question of independence, yes or no. Here the question is that you want to expel, you want to annihilate the freedom of expression, so that they do not dismount themselves, simply, their political negotiation. You want to silence the dissenting voices in order to eternally extend the process and life of that independence account. Its political power can only be maintained if they continue to deceive a part of the population, of the citizens of Catalonia. And that's why they're ruthless with those who raise the least of the doubts. That's why – that's why – Mr. Puigdemont, you purged Mr. Baiget, and not for anything else. I would like to say that from the People's Party of Catalonia we do not allow, as you do not escape, that this rupturistic adventure will come to an end. I can finish all the government's remodeling that you consider appropriate, I can silence the counselors I believe, and all this separatist network has put this moteu..., put in that order. But today I have bad news for you, and for you, Mr. Puigdemont: today your political negotiations, the independence negotiations, are getting sore, and you won't get to flush the Catalans with your fall. He's carrying us to a cliff, but he won't make it. Every time we are more Catalans than we have decided to free ourselves from this radical nationalism, a nationalism that leads us to doubt that when the councillors of this government, of your government, Mr Puigdemont, speak, we do not know if they are telling the truth, we do not know if they are saying what you want to listen to because they do not cease, or we do not know if what they are really transmitting is the truth. Today I can assure you that, beyond these days of authoritarianism that is due to the end, these facts, these attacks, are the most obvious proof that freedom is not at risk. It is the most obvious proof, Mr Puigdemont, that the rule you are trying to establish here in Catalonia has huge lefts – and I do not look at myself with this face [[relays]] – and that we are about to live a change of government in Catalonia [[remorse of the voice]] , a change of government... - Yeah, it's looking at me with a face, huh? –, and that we are about to experience a change of government in Catalonia, a change of government to where we have experience, those we have been in the midst of administration, as is the third largest assembly in Catalonia, the Assembly of Badalona, we know that, beyond the ideologies or the ways of thinking that a may tend, you must govern for all the comings, you must govern for all the citizens. And I can assure you that this is what we do, once it is dedicated to summoning the citizens to vote, to the only vote you are entitled to and want the majority of the citizens of Catalonia, who are the own autonomous elections. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.117.0	Thank you very much, Mr Albiol. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.118.0	Well, good morning to the chamber. President, advisors, advisors, Members and Members, President, I was pleased that during the control session the President made reference, let's say, to these media of contrasted credibility communication, right? because in one of these media outlets published in the capital of the State this week I don't just have a counselor, but they just say that we went to school together with the president, which I wanted to say or that I see very old or very young the president, because we are fifteen years old and, therefore, it is obvious that we can't match from the beginning to the primary school. In any case, they deny – and let's face it, reality has denied it – this information so contrasted that it published the Diari de La Razón, we are, therefore, obviously, to congratulate the new advisor on his appointment. In addition, we celebrate that... we know that he is a person, therefore, who goes from the associated world, who has participated in many cultural projects, and, therefore, we think of a good profile to captain the Department of Culture. We wanted to take advantage of today's intervention, in a way, to help Councilman Baiget's work in the Department of Enterprise. He hasn't just explained the president who were the reasons for his cessation. We would like, as at least, to put a few on the table, of which we think there have been political ills or political bad lines of the department of Mr Baiget. First of all, in relation to the question of energy, we want to put on the table that Mr Baiget's department, therefore, has not developed the policies that we should develop in a country that is being compromised by the struggle against climate change. We have made total continuity in relation to energy policies. We have maintained a general director, Mr. Pere Palacín, Director General of Energy, who worked for more than fourteen years at Red Eléctrica Española ; therefore, in a way reinforcing this famous idea of rotating doors, in a department that has to make decisions in its own months on various high voltage lines in our country, and that, therefore, we think that surely will not follow the dictate of those policies linked to the general interests and to the struggle against climate change, but many times, much more linked to the interests of these multinationals that plunder our Administration. Certainly, we do not want to forget, for those who always demand the question of the governments of the left, that during the tripartite we also had Agustí Maura as the Director General of Energy, a person who also came from Red Eléctrica de España. And so let's just say that the question of rotating doors in the field of energy is a historical question, isn't it? , in the Government of the Government of Catalonia. In any case, we think that there has also been an error or a failure of the Baiget Councillor that this department has not done, in a joint work with other departments of the Generalitat, the regulation of poor energy, which is a question that we have pending since the beginning of the legislature, that we have already talked about at the time of the investiture and that continues in the tinter. Let us continue without developing the rules, let us continue without signing agreements with the big energy companies and, therefore, let us continue to work or allow this inequality between the big multinationals and the users, right? , these little ones affected by the energy issue, so, always this equidistance of the government ends up benefiting these energy issues, just as it happened in the conflict of the Fosca valley and how, let's say, it happened in so many other places. Also Councillor Baiget, in our view, has not approved tourism policy. He has continued to bet on this predatory model, tourism without limits, which we criticise. We were not able to convince him during the negotiation of assumptions that the tax on touristic establishments was precisely reversed in fighting against negative externalities, and that was maintained for the promotion of tourism. The councillor Baiget also rescued with public money, through Avançsa, the Circuit de Catalunya – 7_millions_i_mig d'euros– and, in short, this model of Barcelona World, therefore, that the group of the Government seems to celebrate so much and that we discuss so much. He had the university world absolutely revolted, with the precariousness and mercantilization of all time. We've seen students in some of the most intense mobilizations of recent years, and the precarious faculty, too, will have to go to the judiciary to claim their rights. Therefore, the appreciation of Councillor Baiget, from our perspective, from our parliamentary group, is clearly negative. That now is replaced the councillor Baiget for the councillor Vila? So we don't share that decision. Councillor Vila, let's say, prominent anti-CUP member of the Government, has had some of the pearls that the hemisphere provides us about counter-declarations to the CUP. [[Widow's remorse.]] I suppose I don't need to read them all; the counselor is not perfectly familiar, clearly, is he? Tell me. [[Rialles.]] There he is, huh? [[The timer laughs.]] It's almost embarrassing to read them. Moreover, in the management of the Council of Culture, we do not share the policies that have developed. We think that a concept of elitist culture has been maintained – as always, let's say, as was already the case with so many previous governments – with a certain patriarchal patina, in the perspective, therefore, that they are not due to political terms that allow correcting the underrepresentation of women in cultural production. Today it is very public some statistics that explain to us how 85_per_cent of the groups that act at Spring Sound, at Sonar, are exclusively male. And, therefore, there is an obvious underrepresentation of women. Even though, for example, the Association of Women Producers and Filmmakers, therefore, when it appeared in this Parliament that it asked for policies in this sense, the Council has clearly avoided the need for active policies in this matter. And, moreover, in our understanding, it has been implementing a certain privatization of culture, always incorporating the presence of many private actors in cultural policy, and arriving at the point of privatizing even the management of deposits, as is happening with the archeological housing of Empuries. We would put the clairvoyant to the councillor's culture policy, criticizing him for his absence, insufficient and, let's face it, lack of leadership in the field of linguistic policy. We had an inquiry in which we were able to discuss this question and in which the Councillor demonstrated his liberal language, when he went and conphonied the concept of minority language with minority language, two concepts which for us, therefore, expressed two very different realities. In any case, we wanted to take advantage of this intervention to launch a message to the government that I don't think will surprise anyone. Following the decision that we will continue, we will support a government that has a clear political determination and conviction with the referendum, that takes the path of unilaterality, as it has already assumed, in some way, this government, and with the idea and the need for this government to give credibility to this referendum by passing, on its own days, on its own weeks, that shows us that this October 1st, this referendum of October 1st, is absolutely irreversible and that, therefore, public women such as the logistics and organization of this referendum give compliment to what we believe is the guarantee that we will be in front of a referendum. We have made them public; I think the members of the government know them. We have talked about seven guarantees: the issue of the cents, the external vote, the need to hold ballots, papers and voting points, the need to choose members of the months as we did in the ordinary elections, the question of election officers, the committee of international experts and the campaigns in the communication media, as in the public communication media. For us, these are the guarantees that we think there will be, that there should be, in this October 1st reference. We think that those who think it is not to give the guarantees should say who the guarantees are; we haven't felt them yet. And we think that the most important thing, too, is to bring together accomplices and alliances around this reference, October 1. This week we haven't had a few, very important people, these people of progress and compromises from the left to the rest of the State. Let no one self-adjugate the monopoly of the left of the State, because we have seen the position of Xose Manuel Beiras in Barcelona, to the Progressive University of Estiu; we have seen Podemos Andalucia; we have seen Jaime Pastor; we have seen Carlos Taibo, and we can continue the list of people compromise of the left of Spain that says that the 1st of October will have a referendum, and that it will have to go to vote the 1st of October in this referendum. And we'd end up, if you're allowed, with this congratulations to Councilman Puig, to the new Councilman Puig, precisely recalling a phrase from Montserrat Roig, on which yesterday he designed an interesting documentary on Catalan public television, and which we our own, right? and, therefore, wishing that this new name to the area of vague culture in this direction. Montserrat Roig said culture is the most revolutionary political option in the long run. That's the way it is. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.119.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Benet. The words "Mr. Jordi Turull", represented by the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.120.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honorable President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors... in the first place, allow me, President, to thank the Frenchwoman for her presentation. In fact, you could have come here, completed a process that is marked in the Rules and the Statute, made a living... but, in change, you spoke to us clearly, didn't you? He spoke to us of a difficult decision, but also of an inevitable decision, and he explained to us clearly the reasons for which, therefore, these changes have occurred. Difficult, first, for the person in the first place affected, who is the Baiget advisor, and allows us to do our own words that you have dedicated to him and that he has said to him and that we share, and more, if I may, no? Reconnaissance. We do believe that Councillor Baiget has done a lot of work and a lot of work, this work in front of the department. Actually, he's a person, and we recognize him, who's always been where he worked and he's been working effectively, quietly and honestly, right? And I'm sure that where you are, with the backs you have to take over, you'll keep doing it. And the president has come in..., as well as making these compliments to Councilman Baiget and that we, I insist, share, so, he made the explanation why he had to make this decision. And he spoke of the transcendent political moment we live in, and we share it. And the trust you can give, right? And the fact that – some here haven't even mentioned it; then I'll make a comment, right? – the political moment is very transcendent and that we are assigned by land, by sea and by air, with conventional political weapons and with non-conventional political weapons. And that, therefore, the first guarantee because this went well, the first guarantee to give confidence to those people who have mobilized so much, so much, and so much, that is waiting for October 1st to vote, and will vote there, therefore, is the Government. And that is why we fully understand and share, therefore, that the President makes use of his functions, of the few functions that he has indelible, and, therefore, President, you have all our support. For what he does to our counselors, I think they have all of them, the tria you've made, president, a personal, professional, and also political trajectory, more than accredited. And, therefore, we also deserve all our trust. The councilman Vila, therefore, this Parliament already knows him so well and, therefore, is witnesses of his work, of his pocket, first, to the head of the Department of Territories, of his pocket in the Department of Culture. If it did well for Figueres, it did well for Territori and it did well for Culture, so we are sure that it will also do well for the new responsibility entrusted to him by the President. Being born in the East Valley has these things, that he likes a little. And for what he does... but Councilman Vila already knew him. And to Councilman Puig also the avala – and the president has referred – therefore, a long and extended trajectory, and – let me say this – a long and extended trajectory to the world of culture to the green and the mature, at the time when some things were more fashionable and many people participated in it, and at the time when there were areas of popular culture where there were not so many people who participated in it. And that's why we all know that he's a valued, appreciated and esteemed person all over the world of culture. And, therefore, they make you counsel for what you have shown enough that it is your personal vocation, which is often translated into a professional vocation and a political vocation for the responsibilities you have held... so it seems to me that the tria is excellent and that Councilman Puig will do a very good job. And, therefore, we in the councillors wish you all the luck and all the uncertainties, and also very strong to the whole government, so, because, the months that come, know that the expectations of the citizens of Catalonia are very high, they have the honor of living the most transcendent moment of the history of Catalonia of the last centuries, and, therefore, it is also a very high responsibility. And, therefore, we wish them out, uncertain, and also very strong. In fact, we could already leave it here, but I have referred to something that has been practically referred to by the others, which is to focus on why the President, so he has made a change of government that..., in the same way that this Parliament has the power and has the competence to sort out the President of the Generality, to trust the President of the Generality, he has the power, like all governments, to appoint at every moment those advisers or advisers who consider that in order to satisfy the objective to which he has committed himself with this chamber..., he can achieve, right? We were talking about culture, and it gave me the feeling that all the parliamentary groups, a little, to which they have come is to sell their book, and they have come to make a little minidebate of general politics, more with continuous references to Junts for the Yes, to the PDECAT, to Esquerra, etc. And you will allow me, Madam President, to make a point of some way, because we have been constantly greeted, have we not? Mrs. Arrimadas, talking about books and stuff, you just do it all the time, don't you? But today I think that the Groucho Marx phrase, which says, "I've spent so much time writing the criticism that I haven't had time to read the book. That is to say, you came here, with your autopilot, to make the same speech as you had to make five minutes, you did not enter into the considerations that the president of why you would do that, and you allowed yourself the luxury of starting to give advice on how the PDECAT should work, how it should work in relation to Esquerra, etc., didn't you? [[Widow's remorse.]] You. You have the pleasure of giving advice just where you fail the most, don't you? There was someone who said, "With PP rubble you can't make good projects. That's what he said? This was said by one of the four Valencian deputies of the hundred and forty elected officers who left them two years old; a party in which it is not that people cease or that people are changed, but directly that they are going public – for their way of doing, Leninist, etc., as they say. You have... [[Widow's remorse.]] You've got the fun... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah. You... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] You..., 10 percent of your 2015 election expenses leave the party and you have the pleasure of coming to teach us lessons here, don't you? Therefore, Mrs. Inés, you have placed the autopilot. Now that we're at the time of major parties, people usually do the same job but change places. But it's that you bring three_months with the same speech and there's no way you can change it. I'd ask you to update it at least, because we're listening to the same people, right? And I, Mr. Iceta... Mr. Iceta, thank you very much for your intervention, but there are some things that are sometimes said like that... The President of the Generality..., there is President of the Generality no thanks to a statue that came out of the Constitutional Court; the President of the Generality is the one hundred and thirty President of the Generality of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm saying... he's the one-hundred-and-thirty president of the Catalonian Government. And I appreciate it... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] And I thank him... no, I'm saying that because Catalonia doesn't care about the Spanish Constitution. Let's see if we understand each other. And a lot of things that happen, maybe they find the explanation here. I thank you..., I thank you, Mr. Iceta... [[remorse of the voice]] I thank you, Mr. Iceta, for saying that we have a majority of Parliamentarians who legitimize us in order to get ahead of what we have committed ourselves to. And one thing, because they all said it, one thing: they expose that if it already does the deities, that if it divides them, that it already divides them... You don't worry that it has passed the deities and we haven't finished yet; what really worries them is that they see that we will do it. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And more... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] No, no. And, more than that... Yes, they can already laugh – they can already laugh. And, plus, we'll do it... [[You see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see,]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.121.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.122.0	I, more and more – more and more...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.123.0	Listen... quiet, and please. Respect the chorus of words, which you have respected before.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.124.0	And, besides, we will do it, we will do it and we will finish it, barely the weights, Mr. Iceta, we will do it and we will finish it, barely the weights, with more democracy. I am grateful to Mr Albiol that today he has not come to terms with comments of the "Bolivian, " Fascist, "Irrational, "Insanity, "Delirium, etcetera type. That's all the adjectives you've dedicated to the president because you've made a remodeling of the government. And yet they have the joy, you, who are sending the Civil Guard all the way, who not up there the Civil Guard arrive the keyposts of the State, you who are threatening every day, who have gone from Operation Dialogue to Operation Rottenmeier, have passed... and you say that the President is making a mood for it? For God's sake! Look at you; what you should take is some calming, because some expressions of you are the least decent of politics. So, Mr. Albiol, I thank you... the one that's going on, which, you talking about brave, is here where you should say that; not to all these televisions what they're doing with mid-term interviews, here. [[Some applause.]] Why don't you tell the president this? All these insults? Why? Because it would be absolutely portrayed. And look, Mr. Rabell, do you know what the difference is? – you have put cases of discrepancy here. Miri, the difference is that the president has ceased a counselor, has spoken about the subject of trust and has come to terms with this person. You, when someone disagrees, insult him with insults to the radio publicly, when someone disagrees with you. It is the great difference of accepting criticisms or not accepting criticisms. And if not, they ask a Member who is not here right now, that the day she voted differently – ah, she's there – that you, Mr Coscubiela, made her a reguitzell of praise, in Catalonia Radio, who was reassured. This is the difference, where there can be a discrepancy and where there can be no discrepancy. And then you made a mini general policy debate here. Miri, Mr. Rabell, who knows what he wants to find a medium, who does not know what he wants to find an excuse. And you're apologizing and apologizing every day. Look, president, they tell him he's alone; he's not alone. Listening to someone you sometimes think: "It's better alone than bad company. But, President, you are very well accompanied, not only with the absolute majority of this parliamentary chamber, but, as you know, also in the street. President, we are at your side and, therefore, we support the initiative you have taken. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Since there is no answer on the part of the President, we thank everyone and everyone. And we suspend the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.126.0	It's part of the session. [[Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia creation law project]] [[200-00010/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The third item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Institutional Affairs on the draft law establishing the Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the Government's request, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of the President's Counsellor. It has the word, therefore, Mrs. Neus Munté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.127.0	Very nice late. Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, a very special greeting to the secretaries of Telecommunications, Cybersecurity and Digital Society, director of the Cesicate, people of their respective teams, former leaders who accompany them. Today this Parliament, indeed, will debate and vote on a law that is important and that is necessary for the country, important for the moment we are living, and above all in the march of a country that is prepared and that is positioned to address the digital revolution, the revolution of the 21st century, where cybersecurity will play a very transcendental role. In this sense, the public authorities and the Government of Catalonia have clearly aspired to the full implementation of this digital society, employing more and more tools each day than from both administrations and providers of services that we have at the disposal of the city council. In the case of the Government of Catalonia, today a high volume of public services that we lend is already available to the network and are accessible to the citizens, in coherence with the will to provide us with an administration that is at the bottom of everyone. The daily use of information and communication technologies, the new technologies we have been talking about for a few years, and the treatment of businesses, entities and citizens turning them into essential elements for today's economic and social development. Depending on these systems and information technologies, there is a need for basic elements to ensure the continuity of activities, to provide legal certainty to citizens' actions and to trade, as well as to ensure the progress and social development of citizens in our country. We are aware of the benefits this digital transformation brings to our society, but so are the challenges, and cybersecurity is not one of them. The digital society is affected by new and various threats, which endanger the security of information systems and their data, and which cause its protection against these cyber threats to have become a basic pillar for the development of the digital society and for the trust it has in citizens. Smart digital technologies will be the basis of the economies of the century in which we are living, as well as of our own, both to empower them and to destabilize them. And in this new paradigm, Catalonia has the actions, we are not convinced, and the ability to embrace the maximum benefits of this revolution, and we believe that we now have the best action to avoid the consequences, the negative consequences. At the ICT level, Catalonia has a powerful, high-profile sector: more than 12 thousand companies dedicated to the new technologies, with more than 14,000_million euros in annual billing, more than 200_million euros annually earmarked for investment in research and development. I would like to remind Members and Members that this legislative initiative compliments Parliament's mandate to reject Motion 75/X, of 13 February 2014, and Resolution 535/X, of 19 February 2014, for which the Government was committed to the creation of a body responsible for cybersecurity in Catalonia. This Cybersecurity Agency creation law is now the result of the effort and commitment of many people. Allow me to highlight the people of civil society, of the companies that have participated in the debates of the Commission; logically, also of the members of the Government, of the Secretariat of Telecommunications, Cybersecurity and Digital Society, as well as of the Césicate, and, obviously, of all of you, of the Members and Members of the different parliamentary groups, without exception, attached to the question, who have enriched it with better ideas and with a joint work, which I know has been important. I want to thank everyone for the work, the effort and the contribution. Also the work done long enough by the Césicate, long enough for these six years of existence, to ensure the information security of the Generality. It may seem, this, a concept that runs out of the walls of the same Administration, but it goes much further: up to businesses, to entities and to the citizen and citizens. The challenges of the digital society and those that will come need to have many more tools to ensure this cyberprotection, not only in the infrastructure, but also in the information systems, not only in the public administration, but also throughout the country. I've spoken before about revolutions, about the digital revolution, in which we are immersed. Before there were any others, it is obvious; we are sons and daughters, other revolutions: the agricultural, the industrial. History has taught us that if you don't decide to be an active protagonist, to lead even these revolutions, you don't expect to be a beneficiary at all; it's much more likely that you'll end up towing or it's late and bad. We are here to give explanations, to put on the table what was a compromise of the Government, also of the Parliament and, in short, of the joint venture of the citizenry, which wants to enjoy the benefits of the development of this digital society in a safe way and with the maximum possible guarantees. I am convinced that this Cybersecurity Agency of Catalonia is the basis and one of the best guarantees to be able to fully accomplish this important challenge, as is the digitalization of our country. Many thanks for the work done and, in advance, also the congratulations, because today we are also drawing the history of a country, of a 21st century, which is written in terms of cybersecurity, and also freedom. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.128.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. The words of Mr Lluís Guinó, as well as the rapporteur, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.129.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, my first intervention will be a formality, as they put forward the rapporteur for this law. And in the first place, what I have to do is – the Councillor has already done it too – thank the work, dedication, the meetings of the people that we have made the deputies that we actively participated in their elaboration. And, on the other hand, also aggravate the commission's letterbook pocket, Mr. Antoni Bayona, for his technical advice. And just to make it clear, that the Councillor has already said, that we are ahead of a necessary law, that it is embedded in a context of globalization and globalization of information, in a society in the network, defined by the same Manel Castells in its most important books and, moreover, in the..., even in different journalistic articles. A company in the network needs, above all, security, guarantees and security. And what citizens need is that, to the extent that this digital world has developed, there are guarantees on the part of the Administration that this transmission of information has to be minimally secure and that it has to allow..., that this is also an important aspect and that there has been a reference in the question: that everything that is developing still today as the digital divide finally disappears from our country. It is important that ICTs arrive absolutely close, arrive absolutely for everyone, and this is an objective that the government has and that in this law, as far as possible, we have tried to formalize. I also want to appreciate the support and help we have had from the department to the director, Jordi Puignero, and all the help and support we have had from the perspective of the government, because this is certainly a very technical law, they already see it, and from this technical view we also need that... In the appearances that there were in the debate the interventions were very and very technical; I mean that they were very and very profitable, they had, from an intellectual point of view, a lot of category, and they were very prepared people who have helped to set up a little law, that they already see that it is a law of relatively few articles, but instead, that it will require a good development after their completion. I insist, thanks for the work carried out on all the Members who participated, and that it be a law that covers the expectations of the citizenry and that it be clearly a mechanism of prevention and protection of the digital security of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.130.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Guinó. The parliamentary groups will then intervene to defend the reserved items and, if necessary, the items that follow the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. In the first place, will have the word Mr Alfonso Sánchez, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.131.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I don't see you..., counsel – forgive me – MPs, MPs, today almost a year ago the processing of this law began, on July 26, 2016, and since then the position of the government has not changed a bit, we have continued to see that technique that uses, which is the apisonator: all those amendments that do not interest them eliminate them, cut them off, and without dialogue; how much they say to you: "We will look at it. The text that is being presented today is the same as it was a year ago, with the great luck that the amendments adopted by the votes in committee have been incorporated, since during the presentation the Government did not agree to make any changes to the text. I would like to congratulate the parliamentary groups that have contributed their sand granite to this law and that have succeeded in adopting different amendments. No wonder they want to pass laws by one reading, without debate, without the opposition being able to express itself. What you want is for your text not to be altered by anyone. Returning to the matter that has brought us here, currently the Government, the Generalitat, already has competence to protect itself in its infrastructures, to protect itself with the communications of its administration and citizens. Why is it necessary to create another shell, another chiringuite, to exercise this competition? We are presented with a law of cybersecurity without security, without collaboration with the other entities, without competences and, of course, which is a face wash of the Cesicat. As always, when something doesn't work and big scandals come out, you quickly change your name. And it's just that the Cesicat isn't an impolite entity, it has a past. Albert Rivera, in this Parliament, has already denounced that Councillor Felipe Puig wanted to turn it into the Catalan CNI, since she was involved in different espionage scandals to mossos d'ésquadra, politicians, professors... What if one day it falls on the Cesicat some responsibility for these cases of espionage? A public cybersecurity agency will have to answer to the heritage of all Catalans for having been a private entity placed in the political interests of some. Will they also put it under the carpet, like the rest of things that smell bad in the government? Santiago Vidal has already said this – and I quote textually –: "We have your tax data illegally. He also said that «of the eight hundred_one Spanish judges in Catalonia we know what our dreams and ideals share. We are not going to make unfounded accusations, but it is that Mr Vidal himself said that the Government, violating such fundamental rights as privacy and personal data protection regulations, said that it has obtained and illegally processed data from Catalans. Interestingly, the Cesicat has always been involved in cases of data collection and disclosure. Look, even if you change your name a thousand times, it'll still be the same. We don't think that's very serious. We are asked by an agency that can manage personal data and communications from citizens, although fortunately it will not be able to intercept communications from citizens, because this requires independent judicial control. Or don't you remember the Snowden case? This law, which is intended to be adopted, must be subject to prior and subsequent controls, such as submission to periodic and parliamentary judicial control. And we want the members of your governing body to be independent, not members of political parties. That is to say, that they are accountable either to justice or to Parliament and that they are not hiding. We want transparency, but not Mr Romeva's, but the real one. But you don't want it and that's why you don't put it in the law. You do want the counselor to name the agency's address, of course, to place yours. What does the Government of Catalonia want to do with this cybersecurity agency? Do you want absolute control of the cybercommunications of Catalonia? This will enable them to read millions of e-mails, obtain bank data, access mobile phones and read, for example, all wasaps, or have the ability to attack servers of political opponents, or newspapers, or entities, or trade unions. Of course, all legitimized by this text, which does not include an external control to ensure that this new spy agency is neutral. The Ciutadans model is far from that of this law, and our amendments are directed towards this, in a sense opposite to what the Government has put forward. So much so that the Council of Guarantees Statutàries has given us the reason for the claim that, from our group, from our party we see that it is a violation of the rights of all Catalans, the Statue and the Constitution. They have neither the skills to do what they want to do nor the way they want to do it, nor can they enter Catalan computer equipment to investigate. What do we call those who do so outside the law, those who get into computer equipment outside the law? That's where I leave it. In addition, it is violating the Statute and is in conflict with article 149.1.29 of the Constitution, which considers public security to be the exclusive competence of the State. Ciutadans has tabled several amendments, which we could summarise in four priority areas: one, depoliticization of the management body through a competition for merits and capabilities; two, parliamentary control of cybersecurity activity; three, cooperation and cooperation with bodies under other administrations, such as the CNI, the National Security Centre, etc.; and four, judicial control prior to proceedings in the event of the infringement of fundamental rights. Another reason we want to reject your cybersecurity law is the €500,000 you intend to spend on creating and managing a new digital identity different from electronic DNI, which I remind you is the only valid national identity document. Look, it's enough to duplicate what exists and invest that 500,000 euros in what Catalans really claim: education, health, social services..., and we could continue, but, of course, not a new digital identity. I would not like to end my intervention without highlighting the civil, administrative and criminal liability that may arise in the face of mismanagement of the Cybersecurity Agency or the Cesicat, where the administration will be responsible in the first instance. However, it should be recalled that, once the damage has been done, compensation for the damage caused to the public sector will be claimed from those responsible for exercising that responsibility at the head of that entity. Let us hope that, if the case were to arise, the political and managerial leaders of the agency itself will not seek shields or excuses and assume their responsibility. From Ciutadans we want a depoliticised cybersecurity entity, which ensures the cybersecurity of all Catalans and, of course, works for and not against citizens. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.132.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.133.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, first of all from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we would like to join, although it is a tradition for the rapporteur or rapporteur to do so, to the chapter of thanks. First of all, to all the people who appeared on the committee, unless they gave their perspective on this text which is subject to Parliament's consideration. Secondly, in the chamber service, in the language service, in the legal service, in all the persons assisting in the management of the committee, but also in the Members and Members of Parliament. And I want to make a special mention of Mr Guinó, who has suffered from having to negotiate with me the Socialist Parliamentary Group's views, but I believe that in the end, and despite all that, we have come to a good number of agreements respect aspects that our parliamentary group considered essential. As you must remember, probably, in the debate of the totality on this bill of law our intervention was an intervention, let us say, relatively harsh, within the toughness that is customary in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is not the toughest, let us say, in comparative parliamentarianism. And we said that of all the heat that there have been substantial changes in the text because we can give support. So, well, before we get into the defense of the items that we've still kept alive, I mean that, despite this, we consider that the work that has been done allows our parliamentary group to support the text that today is subject to debate in Parliament. We have presented basic statements regarding the delimitation between the functions of this Agency of Cybersecurity of Catalonia and the functions that must be exercised by the forces and organs of security of the State, obviously including the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra - Police of Catalonia. On the other hand, we introduced a series of papers that they wanted to increase the parliamentary control mechanisms of this Cybersecurity Agency. And in a third order of items, some that... – among which some of those who are still alive – that have to do with the organs, let's say, of governance of this Cybersecurity Agency. We have not all been able to introduce them, as I have commented, but those that allow us at this time can give support to this project. I have to make a special mention of those who have to deal with the issue of parliamentary control, because it would probably not have been necessary in other circumstances to introduce so many preventions, so many precautions as we have introduced or tried to introduce through our reviews. Why? Why is it known to all that, if we are here today, it is because, as the Councillor has indeed recalled, a parliamentary mandate, but this parliamentary mandate sees, precisely, a situation with the previous formulation of these functions, that is the Cesicat foundation, in which there were episodes, let us say, more than questionable, huh? Under Councilman Puig's mandate, not the present, but the one we all know, Mr. Felipe Puig, right? There was a series of more than questionable episodes that justified, to some extent, some of the pre-emptions that I might not have formulated in such a hyperbolic way as the Deputy of Ciutadans did in his previous intervention, but that justified some of these pre-emptions, and shared them with groups like Catalonia Yes, it is Pot or the same CUP in the previous legislature, with the different names they had and that now dispensed me that I did not remember exactly the wording of the name of the parliamentary group. But, in any case, they had shared and, as much in committee as in the House of Commons, we had tried to put some points on what it is that the Cesicat could and could not do. Because, look, the Cesicat, with the statues he had at the time, could have produced any of the situations that questioned its functioning – with the statues at hand was not possible. I have to say that with the text we have at our fingertips of the bill of law, neither could it produce any of the situations that the Césicate seemed to have favored, nor any of the situations described by the Deputy of Ciutadans. It shouldn't be possible with the text in hand. In fact, if the Government of the Government of Catalonia intended to intercept communications, read all the whatsapps of Catalan citizenship, etc., it would probably not be the most appropriate tool to create a Catalan cybersecurity agency. Moreover, we would probably have noticed this in the assumptions, because the amount of analysts that would need to be hired to read and, in some cases and all, to translate all these communications would have powerfully called attention to us. Therefore, in principle – in principle – with the text that we approve today it is not favored that it is created a Catalan CNI or something that is assembled remotely, eh? That is to say, these functions are absolutely outside of what the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency has to do. In fact, in principle, with the text at hand, what should be done is to prevent actions such as these and to prevent actions such as these from being produced with respect to the Catalan public administrations, but also with respect to businesses, the private sector, organizations, etc. Now, as we have had the episodes that we have had, it is no better to strengthen parliamentary control mechanisms, and for this reason some of the issues that we have introduced and some of which we have not been able to introduce year in this sense: to report before Parliament, the presentation of an annual memo, the intention that in this annual memo... – I say because the Deputy Guinó knows and the rest of the Members of Parliament that this was a position of the PSC that could seem exaggerated but that we wanted to maintain it–, the intention that more than the annual memo of the Cybersecurity Agency is also pronounced in respect of the activity of the Cybersecurity Agency, other bodies like the Syndicate of Accounts, the Anticorrespondence, etc. Okay. Therefore, this is not the Catalan CNI, it cannot be. This is also not a presuppositional cover menu or a "xiringuit because institutional hackers or crackers are dedicated to bursting computers. It's got to be something else. And, if at some point it deviates from its functions and does things that it should not have done, I hope that Parliament's reaction remains the same as we had in the previous legislature, that it is asking for the investigation until the end and taking the measures that we thought should be taken. Another question is to discuss, because it is questionable and is, in fact, a debate that we have had in its parliamentary question, whether the institutional form that has acquired this Cybersecurity Agency as the agency is the best form or not. In fact, the Parliamentary Group of the CUP various of the points that it has defended and that you have kept alive – go, there is no different kind of thing, but I would like to summarize them in that aspect that I think most characterizes them – what they came to say is that they did not want this to have a form of agency, but they wanted this to be taken directly by the Government of Catalonia, let us say, by the Government of the Government of Catalonia. I don't know exactly what department I should be signed up for, but that's... We – as we said, we repeat it here – have no difficulty in discussing that this can be assumed directly as a service in some department. But then – we can say that because we did not present the whole thing – it seems strange to us that the CUP did not present the whole thing at the time. Because, quite simply, to do these functions of cybersecurity from within a department, assumed directly from the Government of the Generality, it does not need to develop any law. It does not fit, simply; because it is a question, a decision of the Government of the Government of Catalonia instituted or not for a resolution or a motion of the Parliament, but a decision in which it is attributed to certain certain material means, a certain formation and practice as the Government every day and you serve and try to adapt its structure to the different needs or policies that it wants to develop; but in any case, it would not be necessary to develop a law. Therefore, if we are here in principle it is because there has been a certain consensus, despite the considerations to the totality both of the Citizen Group and of the People's Party, that it is necessary to give a specific form, different from that of a service in some department to this Cybersecurity Agency. And we think it's actually necessary. That is to say, and we don't think it's a state structure either, let's just say, in the sense that since the majority of Parliament it gets used to giving that word or that expression. We believe that it is a structure that administrations like that of the Government of Catalonia must have, they must not be prepared to fully exercise their powers and functions, let us say, in guarantee of the proper functioning of the same Administration but also helping to ensure security, cybersecurity for the conjunction of the administrations, right? , citizens and citizens, businesses, associations, entities, etc. Therefore, we consider that the final product of this paper is a law, if we finish approving it, which will serve to better structure cybersecurity services in Catalonia. And that, in any case, if any group or any citizen has the suspicion that from this or around this instrument they may be violating their rights, they have all the resources that the law foresees in their abyss. Because some of the Ciutadans issues, and I don't remember if some of those of the People's Party may also insist on reiterating in the text of the Law of the Cybersecurity Agency some precautions that are already in other dispositions, both at the catal level and above all at the state level. And maybe it's not necessary for every law we make to say that public powers can't skip the laws in that concrete aspect that we're regulating, because, if not, we'd do, let's say, some laws of utterance that are absolutely unbearable, and it would be contrary to the legislative techniques that are more recommenable. Anyway, that's what we wanted to comment on. We will, therefore, support in general terms the text of the law. With regard to the opinion of the statutory guarantee board, I think it has been very clear. Let's just say, let's sum up a lot – because they are a few pages – that what you see is that the research tasks cannot be taken over by the Cybersecurity Agency, which is a matter reserved, in any case, for the Squadre Moissos Cos, and, therefore, we have put forward a point following the opinion that seems to me to be trying to solve this concrete and point-by-point aspect. We have also read the message put forward by Juntes per el Si, following the advice of the Board of State Guarantees, and, well, we are not clear that we have just resolved everything that the advice of the Board of State Guarantees is saying, and therefore we will refrain from respecting its subsequent theme. And if that were the text that you left, then, in this concrete point we would disagree, because we believe that they have made an attempt to respond to the opinion, but that they have not just made it very clear. So, well, the support of the Socialist Parliamentary Group for the text, and we hope that this type of parliamentary work that has allowed us to agree on respect for this can be reproduced in other legislative texts that are also important for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.135.0	Well, President. MPs, MPs, today we're in front of a high-level debate, and let me start a bit of a joke. Today we are in front of a relevant debate, that Mr. Francisco Ibáñez may be admiring himself with a bit of fear; he is admiring himself with a bit of fear because we are abandoning what some of us called at the time the "Catalan TIA, which was this foundation, this "xiringuit" which was the Cesicat, and which was dedicated, among other things, among other activities, in account of strengthening the infrastructure of Catalonia, to pursue activists. Deputy Albano Dante has to be sad, because he was one of the persecutors of the Cesicat, who was dangerous, according to the same syringuite. Today, the Catalan TIA is great, and it's great with a motivation, and I think it's positive, and we're already advancing that from our group we believe that we're good at this, and we think that, before what we have and before what we have to build, we're always going to go ahead with what we have to build, because now, seriously, in a future agency or service, so to speak, of cybersecurity will have to be a central part of our economy, and we don't want to stand back. Because when we talk about cybersecurity, we think a lot about the media attacks that have occurred to the other side of the Atlantic, we think about the media attacks that have occurred and that have been, say, conflict and controversy; in fact, we have to go a lot further. We're not just talking about this – and we're going to have to debate the Guarantees issue after that – and we're talking about Catalonia needs, say, a secure digital space, a space where ICTs, where they're getting started, where citizens and citizens can have confidence in the network; an infrastructure. Just as there are lanes, there are locks and there is light in the physical world, we need some lanes, a lock and light in the digital world. And who's in charge of planning this kind of thing and who's in charge of putting the head on this because people can, say, move into the digital world has to be this Cybersecurity Agency or something like that. And, therefore, we are talking about something that will ultimately cause a technology to develop in Catalonia or to develop in another place; or, if we have the streets here and we lock it we will come here and if not, there. Ostres, it's like a lot of before that, huh? That, in the physical industrial polygons 1.0, I mean, it was passing, too. Yes, it's very similar, it's a translation and, in the end, this responsibility that we have, say, like Catalonia's legislation, we have to pull it forward. Therefore, we believe that, despite all the criticisms I will make from now on – the good thing is over – we believe that we must go..., pull forward, that we must look to a future and that, above all, we must take more seriously the topic of the digital world and cybersecurity, since each time we dedicate more than our time to this digital world; more than our time, more than our economy and, as life can measure in time, more than our life, too. So, the value, the social capital that we get out of our lives every time is more stuck in a place where the streets are hot, we're locked and lit, and so we can keep moving on in this. We are, of course, still in white and black, we are still in a ‘syringuite as..., or in a ‘syringuite' foundation, as I said before, and, therefore, we must continue to move forward. So we certainly have criticisms of how this law has been developed and that they are very clear in the papers that we have set up. At the end and end, here's a question..., and we want to make it very simple, because we could be very technical, talking about botons and cyber attacks. Actually, what we're talking about here is... we're giving up a capacity, a power, a power-iron to an entity and the question is, who's watching the vigilante, right? Yes, because, of course, we could say: "Is it perilous that we are creating? So, maybe yes, and all the parliamentary groups have talked about this, all of them. It may still be dangerous, but, of course, we can't keep what we had. « With which you are dangerous, we do not do anything and we stay home. No, we have to do something. Therefore, if we are to do something that is perilous and we are to ask someone who has a power, who has an iron power, the question is: who watches the vigilante? I was very pleased with the intervention of Mr Pedret, who said: "With the statues of the foundation of the Cessicato it was not possible to make the king of what they did. With the statues or with the law in your hand, neither. I'm the one who's been told that politics is done by people. And, of course, the important thing is who's ahead and who's in control. And here, in reality, many of the proposals, the pal to fight against the proposals that our group has made. We believe that the Greuges Syndicate should be on top of this, but it cannot be here at the Lluís Company Passage, looking all the way to the Cybersecurity Agency, because it's a pretty complex world. It will certainly require, including, an extra endowment of the Greuges Syndic..., and it remains very far away at the time of taxation and control of this activity. In particular, as Congressman Guinó said, it will now be necessary to develop many regulations, many protocols of this agency. Incorporated to develop these protocols and these rules, the syndic is still far away. I say the syndic as an element, say, of defending the citizen in front of the Public Administration. It is strange that Parliament cannot appoint the members of the board of directors, in the sense that there are natural members who are appointed by the different parliamentary groups and represent the plurality of the country, who are taxing the activity of this entity. This would cause us not to get past what happened to the Césicate and that the deputy Albano Dante was not a perilous activist attached to the "xiringuite". Then, in the end and in the end, this was not accepted; these proposals were not accepted. And he knows a little hard, and what we're doing is we're pushing a higher level of peril, and we're loving what we can do. We believe that such an important service, such a classic service, a power outage that we make to a group of people, in reality – that is ultimately what public power is – has a lack of democratic control, and we are giving it to you right now. There are no public bodies for democratic control, such as the same Greuges Synod; there is no plurality, which exists in a parliament that can, say, appoint the members of the board of directors. And, therefore, we believe that this is a problem. Point and aside. Citizens, we do not believe that the board of directors should be formed by technicians, as if it were a private company. Actually, if we go to the private model..., the private enterprise legitimately defends its own interests and not everyone's; if someone defends everyone's interests are the public powers and political representatives, who are therefore, we, and who have voted for us. We can't convert a board of directors into a plethora of technicians and... because you haven't heard. I... – and it's a debate we had during the pregnancy – maybe they got confused: one thing is the board of directors and the other thing is the management team. The management team does have to be full of technicians, but the board of directors, which is political control, doesn't; it should have plural control and guarantee mechanisms, because that... because things like the Césicate theme don't happen again. So, it's the ballblade. And now what's going to happen, right? Our group will announce the vote in favour of the text of the law. Having seen the resolutions, I say, of the Guarantee Board, it has not just convinced us – I say with all the sympathy of the heart – it has not just convinced us of the message that Junts has for Yes in this text. Yes, there is a conflict – it is a reality – with cybercrime investigation, because we are giving a share of power to a group of citizens, to this agency, but maybe here we are passing over. We should be able to work it. Therefore, we, as we are not against the agency being able to investigate cyberattacks and successes in the network – we are not against it – but we believe that the issue has not just resolved the resolution of the opinion, we will abstain cautiously, and if in the end the text remains so we will abstain equally in that particular point. So now what's going to happen is that the government will have to put the piles down to get into the world of desires, wishes, and down to reality and start putting white on black. And we'll be on top of it, we'll be really watching that it's not going to exceed its powers, and it'll be hotter, from now on, that this body that accumulates power and that each time it accumulates more power, because at the end of it and at the end of it, it's going to turn on a digital world, every time more important, it's going to accumulate more power, it's going to need a deeper fiscalization and it's going to be hotter that in a future we think that the same board of directors or the same social control bodies and citizens, like the Greuges Syndicate, are protagonists and they're all day by day over this. Finally, a final comment. Yesterday morning, I got up from home and thought what kind of samarreta on the table? - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's something I think about diari, isn't it? And I've put this bitch, who, if you can read it, asks: "Open your fucking borders, which is basically a complaint, so to speak, to the border fence that has made it to the Mediterranean. And what does this have to do with the Cybersecurity Agency? So, enough, because the papers presented by PP and Ciutadans go in national clau, in clau of "this is a state structure; this breaks Catalonia with Spain, by fate – by fate, by fate – to the network there are no borders and, therefore, there we will never have to cry more open your fucking borders, as it goes to the north of the Mediterranean. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.136.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Next has the word, on behalf of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mr Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.137.0	President, Counsellor, Members, today we come here to debate, therefore, the creation of the new Cybersecurity Agency of the Generalitat de Catalunya, and what we do in the end is to adapt ourselves to one of the most urgent problems and challenges of the 21st century, which is the protection of the network, of the new forms of communication, and of our databases, especially of the most personal data. And, yes, Mr. Giner, we are in an increasingly globalized world, where borders will become smaller, both policies and digital ones, and virtual ones. We are going to a world in which globalization makes distances shorter, that borders are less and less obstacle to travel and work, in a legal way, in which communications are faster and more direct, and that information comes to us at the moment it is transmitted. Globalization must therefore be seen as an opportunity and a positive development. But, like everything else, to protect and enhance the positive effects and opportunities that the new forms of communication in the network give us, we must create the basis for us to defend this system from the bad practices that some want to carry out and take advantage of the network illegitimately. A positive example, for example, of globalization, we would have it when the caste of the untouchables, in India, for example, use the network to form themselves and try to improve socially – for example. But we have, unfortunately, very negative examples, which is the fight against those who want to use the network. And we must have a proactive position in the fight against child pornography, for example; or those who use networks in the jihadist field to catch followers; or preventive positions that we must take to prevent cyberattacks to both individuals and administrations and companies. All these are sufficient reasons to adapt us to the reality that surrounds us and to try to create a serious cybersecurity body from which to act responsibly and which can respond to the problems that can be generated from the network. And that is why it is to be hoped that the current Government of the Generalitat has learned from the chapuzas of the Cesicat; chapuzas so that it is not used, as Mr. Felipe Puig allegedly did, among other things, to try to obtain information of mossos defects to the separatist process and that they were supposedly entering massively the social networks of a union of Mossos d'Esquadra. That is, the Government of the Generalitat was spying on its own police. If a cybersecurity agency is created, it is not to use it politically and for the sake of a political cause. Because then you're talking about the wranglers of l'Estat, and I suppose it's sometimes to divert some political issues and abuses that have occurred here, for example, with the issue of the Cesicat. But, of course, I don't suppose you're interested in setting up a commission to investigate the Government of the Generalitat clavegueres. Let us hope that this law will not happen again and that the agency will have greater control over the abuses of power that have taken place here. And from here, and seeing how you have acted in a recent past and the mistrust you generate, it is important to establish a system of control that guarantees impartiality, professionalism and good use and management of the agency. Let us hope that what has been embodied in the law can be effective and can prevent further abuses or partisan uses by the government using this Cybersecurity Agency. On the training, management and management of the new agency, we think that in its direction there must be specialists in cybercrime and cybersecurity. But also the Department of Interior and Mossos d'Esquadra must have a more important role in both the direction and the participation in the management of the Cybersecurity Agency, which this government does not share right now. It is true that, on the basis of amendments such as those tabled by the Group of the European People's Party, what would be the coordination between the Cybersecurity Agency and the Catalan Police would be improved on the role, but not to the extent that we believe it would be the right one, which, as I said, would be both in the direction and in the participation of the management of the agency itself. What justifies our request? Well, look, cybercrimes: the fight against child pornography, the fight against jihadist international terrorism or any other kind of terrorism, the fight against economic fraud that abuses people's good faith, the fight against piracy and the protection of intellectual property, the fight against the theft of personal data and economic data, among other cybercrimes. And now tell me you don't need interior or Mossos d'Esquadra not to have a greater participation within the agency. Then, especially in the original wording, it seems that you live on a virtual and digital border, separated from the rest of the world; and so you go, every September, with the day of the marmot. And they find it difficult to talk about coordination with other similar bodies of autonomous communities, of the State, even at the international level. Here we do not live in a world parallel to the rest of humanity; even if you believe it, this is not so. Coordination with other bodies, whether, I repeat, of autonomous communities, of the State, and also, why not? , international, is vital for its proper functioning. Social media knows no borders, and cyber criminals, much less. And you have been led by your sovereignist complexes not to speak concisely and concretely of the necessary collaboration with the State on cybersecurity issues. I'll give you an example. The other day the Security Board met, and the state agreed that Mossos be at the CITCO, at the Centre for Counter-Terrorism and Organized Crime Intelligence – which he already was – and that they should become part of the working group of collaboration with the police at European level, Europol. And this suits us, that's right, and you know it. And you make this law full of complexes to recognize that in the end you will have to coordinate with the organs of the State for its proper functioning, but you do not want to explicitly recognize it. From what government does institutional disloyalty come? I think the facts speak for themselves. For our part, we welcome the fact that all administrations are actively working to promote security in networks and telecommunications. That's why I tell you that we don't see with bad eyes that this Cybersecurity Agency is created, as do other autonomous communities– Madrid, Castile-Leon, Cantabria, Andalusia, Basque Country at the end of the year–, even some members of the rest of Spain have it, too. Therefore, for our part, I tell you that we do not see with bad eyes that this Cybersecurity Agency is created. But, yes, we're suspicious, it's true. We are suspicious because we distrust this government for how it has managed cybersecurity in Catalonia in the past; we distrust its complexes in marking and recognizing the coordination work with other administrations, and we distrust its complexes by not giving a greater role to the police within the Cybersecurity Agency. For all these reasons, we shall abstain from the general text of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.138.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Subsequently, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.139.0	Well, good afternoon. The brief presentation of the CUP - Creed Constituent to manifest what will be – I suppose you know – a critical support to the agency and, in fact, a certain preventive alert to its creation. On the previous level, to say that we will not focus on the competition debate that generates the creation of the agency, a debate that we have already had when there was, therefore, the debate on the issues of the totality, a debate that has been reflected in the presentation of issues by different groups, and even the whole opinion of the Council of State Guarantees was full, huh? : is the Spanish State the one that has almost exclusive power to travel for national security or not? In fact, it is a debate that at the CUP - Constituent Creed we are not interested in, I would say, neither at the practical level nor, even, at the legal level. So, we're not going into absolutes. Neither do we make any reference to what should be the hierarchy between the different bones and the forces of security; nor are we interested in both practical and theoretical levels. We would not like to think that we have our lives in the hands of the CNI, but it is also true that we have been critical and we will continue to feel it every time we see or witness, therefore, police bodies that do not respect the minimum human rights indispensable. We focus, therefore, on three questions: the creation of the agency and, therefore, its legal form, its legal nature; the composition of the agency, and, naturally, its functions. And we do it based on what? We do not do this on the basis of the hierarchy of police bodies, we do not do this on the basis of the competent debate, we do this on the basis of the general interest we believe that it is necessary to pursue this agency and, above all, on the basis of the guarantee that it must gather in the matter of civil and political rights of the citizenry. We believe that it is an agency that must be distinguished in order to protect the Administration from attacks, that it is also a way of protecting the citizenry, but we also need to look at how we protect the citizenry from some attacks that can also happen. And we know, therefore, that sometimes freedom of expression, manifestation or organization in this country is not sufficiently armored or guaranteed. Therefore, we understand that from today this agency has to be filled, it has to be filled with people, it has to be filled with resources and it has to start working. And we hope, therefore, that it is understood, that the law is interpreted in the sense that what is to be placed in the centre is the compliment of these civil and political rights of people. And it's that in just new technologies and virtual communications sometimes people get misguided, and we just don't have to forget that behind them there are still the rights that people have. In this sense, therefore, we will ask and we will see to it that the officials of this agency are guided by this intention that this Public Administration is as armored as possible to the attacks, but that this same Public Administration is not converted into a protagonic attack. And it's that the people, the citizens, we have right to navigate the Internet, but we also need to be able to have access under equal conditions, so, on the web, we need to be able to do it anonymously, we need to be able to modify and cancel the data that circulate from us to the web, we need to be able to type and encrypt our communications, and that's why the legal form of the agency is very important. And it was said by Benet Salellas in the debate to the totality, the 20th of October: for us the import of the agency and its functions with its form and its legal nature is proportional. We do not believe that the only way to defend a public agency governed by public law is to give support to an item to the totality, and we have understood that we can do so from items to the articulation. And, as in the debate on totality we warned that if we did not get this shielding guarantee from the perspective of public law, it would be difficult for us to support the creation of the agency, so this in good part explains what our abstention will be. We are waiting, because we have reserved the items, so let's see if Together for the Yes, of a band, the People's Party, Citizens and the Socialist Party still think about it and give it out to be governed by the public right. But in the perspective that this is not the case – and it is not the case that we are being motivated to do so – we believe that we are missing an opportunity that we have precisely more authorities, more powers of public administration, we lose the opportunity that it is the public sphere that holds all the guarantees in relation to these communications from the citizens, we believe that we are losing the opportunity to create the public sphere, in short. And often, with what much is said, therefore, about the functionaries and in fact great allegories, and some are concerned about the legal security of the functionaries, suddenly seeing as now, in change, we will leave in the hands of people who will not be functional questions absolutely essential and transcendental, such as, for example, the privacy of our communications. And in this sense, therefore, we can only be critical of the formula that is finally adopted. We already know that behind the talk of public-private concertation is an attempt to see, therefore, that there is agility and efficiency, eh? We already know that when it is to be effective and fast we run from the administered right. What we also know is that behind these public-private concerts often people are losing, and a few earns and earns a lot. But it's not less certain that we need to shut down the Césicate stage, is it? , and we have given, say, therefore, different arguments, and we have the props, obviously: the Cesicat, public-private foundation, much worse yet that what will be approved today, therefore, created 2009 on the initiative of the Republican Left and the PSC, and of very bad management, obviously, during the stage of Councillor Felipe Puig. So what we have now is that it needs to be closed and closed, not only because of its legal formula, but also because of some actions of dubious democratic quality, for monitoring, which we all remember, of activists. It's okay that we all put it in our mouths. Some political parties claim that they are not monitoring activists, and they did not have any, on that list. We can say that we are monitoring for that list. But it is good that they express solidarity with us, not that they continue to be so much. Maybe they're not as far away as you've intended to stage on certain occasions. Secondly, and for what it does to the composition, we presented an issue because this board of directors we proposed is said "the board of directors to try to extend a little from the business sphere, but you like it more, mostly, "the board of directors, we have proposed that you be equals. It is, therefore, an issue that fits into the joint and that we know and know that there is a certain concern to see if this is a way of completing it, because there is a part of the members of this board of directors that are born members, it will be people for the fact that they are advisors or other members. And, therefore, we have a challenge: how can we make it compatible that some of the natural members that we need to be, because this is the prediction that legislation does..., and that, in change, therefore, we demand an equal composition. Welcome to the world of feminism. This is precisely because it is not law that consolidates discrimination, that it is not based on certain meritorious arguments that it is better for the public and that we do exactly what it is: that we demand that the organs are composed in the proportion that we have to the population. We are half, a little more; therefore, we ask to be half in the governing councils, in this too. Therefore, from then on, any government that comes knows that the appointment of certain advisors and other officials will probably have to be taken into account from the gender perspective, because we have to complete a law that says that the composition must be equal. Aneu thinking, therefore, in the names of women to occupy certain positions of the Government of the Generality, because this we will have to complete. In the third place, and for what it does to the officials, we understand, so... we say: "It has to be filled... I see that the government staff, as it is mostly masculine, is happy with the proposal, I imagine they celebrate it a lot; we too. So in the realm of functions we need people to implement them. We said: "Now we need people, we need resources, and you know as well as I do, that much more so than the expert in the field of technology, in the information field, in the field of cybersecurity, the expert finds herself in activism. We have a lot of experts on the street. And what we are also asking is that you have this expert who has forged herself in activism, very often, therefore, not so much from the academies, but from a willingness to be an activist also in this area. And, therefore, we would ask you to take into account the expert who exists in activism; we would ask you to make an effort, rather than compare it to Parliament, so to expose the relevant balances once a year, think and, in some way, fire to provide you with the maximum democratic control of this body, and, ultimately, the vector continues to permanently make security prevention compatible with a conception of what the freedom of activists must be very – very – extensive. So, we say, with the stage of the Cesicat; we open another stage, and we open a stage that, moreover, beyond the law, I believe that it must help us to open up debates that are surely important for all that is behind it. Who are the ethical limits in the use of technologies? What limitations do we have in access to the new technologies? And, therefore, what new forms of discrimination or illiteracy exist in the population? In one country, we say, where certain plulades are criminal, a country where certain social portals are locked for certain assertions in feminist matter, is a country that does a lot for. When one imagines, therefore, certain police units looking for crimes, we imagine why they can do in a country where they have been criminal and have stopped people in the Pandora Mark, or there are prison feathers on people, therefore, who simply do songs or do some batons. The democratic culture of this country we believe is far from ripe, but in change, we believe that in the field of cybersecurity the agency could be cutting-edge, it could be forward-looking, it could be pioneering in the demonstration that communications can be most scrupulously respected, which is ultimately a form of scrupulous respect for people and, at the same time, to be attentive, therefore, to attacks that can be suffered. As the company d'Anonymous says: "People should not be afraid of the rulers, rulers should be afraid of the people. That's the way it is. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.140.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. The words "Mr. Lluís Guinó", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.141.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, this intervention has to do with the position of Junts per el Si respecting the law. And before I begin what I would like is to appreciate his interventions, coincident in the direction of most of the items that have come forward, some of which, and thus manifested, have been incorporated into the law. One issue of concern is first and foremost the legal nature of the agency. It is true that there has been a discussion, especially with the Parliamentary Group of the CUP, respecting this issue; the rest of the groups have not made it special. The fact is that this agency joins a department of the Generality that forms part of an administrative structure that already has its own control mechanisms and that, moreover, brings to an end all the basic mechanisms of evaluation of public policies and, moreover, complements the Law of Transparency, for a band, that has been approved and that is in force for Parliament and for the Government, and also all the guarantees for what it does to the contract, for the right to make the necessary contracts, and for more than the status of the Catalan public enterprise, that are also perfectly structured and formalized. This first question of the legal nature... I insist, it is a public body, it has not lost its public quality, and the fact that, in some ways, it generates certain concerns to the Parliamentary Group of the CUP is precisely the possibility of managing certain questions in the field of the agency founded on private law. But the basic structure continues to be public and the control mechanisms continue to be public. Until... – with this comment I will try to change, in some way, and seduce, the deputies of Ciutadans, that I will leave the vote denied to this law and that I will be able to reflect and refrain, as at least – until the comment that the control mechanism is important – because it has also been referred to by all parliamentary groups – that the Socialist Party's statements have been incorporated, a note will also be delivered from Ciutadans – therefore, this article in the source is also its article – and clearly says that the Cybersecurity Agency will approve annually a memo, and this memo will be delivered to the Parliament of Catalonia and to the Government, if it is necessary to explain to the House of Commons, and to the House of Commons, and to the House of Commons, if it is necessary to explain to the House of Commons, and to the House of Commons, and to the House of Commons, if it is necessary to explain to the House of Parliament, and to the House of Commons, and to the House of Commons. That's for a band. But, in addition, there has been reference to the deputy of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, there is a more important and highly relevant control mechanism, especially for which we believe the role of entities such as the Union of Accounts, the Syndicate of Greuges, the Agency for the Protection of Data and the Anti-Fraud Office. These entities will also make a report once the Cybersecurity Agency delivers its memory. And, in any case, we understand, from Juntes per el Si, that these are control mechanisms that have not only been put in place for this parliamentary group, but have, moreover, been put in place for the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group with the incorporations also of the Ciutadans Group. Therefore, they ask for some reflection on this aspect. Beyond this and for what it does to functions..., we have already made reference to it before: the Cybersecurity Agency must be a tool and an instrument of a modern state in a digital, globalised society, which, as the deputy of Catalonia said Yes, it is Pot, the digital society and the networks hardly have borders, and therefore the scope of action is a global environment. An economy also..., from this global perspective, not only can it be referred to, from an empirical point of view, to the growth, for example, of what electronic commerce is, which demonstrates an interest of the citizenry in this new trade and what requires of the Administration precisely are guarantees and security because it is carried out this trade. There's another question that certainly hasn't been referred up to now, but it is a Junts' object for Yes and that somehow is in the text of the law, which is that it must also be, this agency, an element of encouragement of what the local cybersecurity industry is. Catalonia excels in certain areas of industry, we want this law to be an incentive because this area is also especially highlighted in Catalonia. And it has a basic prevention function, more than acting after cyberattacks occur, than also. There is also a point of the Socialist Party that joins and calls for the basic function and establishes itself as the basic function of this agency, it is precisely acting as quickly as possible against cyberattacks, some that we have already suffered and, therefore, from an empirical point of view they consist of accredited different attacks, especially in 9-N, and that they could have heavy effects on strategic infrastructures of the government. And, therefore, what we are claiming is that this agency is a basic and fundamental prevention mechanism, precisely to prevent these cyberattacks and why these cyberattacks do not, I insist, affect the basic infrastructure of the government and the country in the end. Citizenship deserves, for a band, security, guarantees and what is also called from a generic point of view digital trust, which means that anyone who develops their activity in this area has the certainty that there is no problem from a point of view of data, communication and information traffic. And these are the basic functions that this agency has to have, that are above all, I insist, security, trust and another very important element, and that it has made reference and that in fact justifies in some case the non-positive vote of this law... but that there are also coordination mechanisms with all those entities that its function is precisely the control of the digital society and the movements in this field. When referring above all to the question of the State Guarantee Board, it must be said that this is an agency that does not have a direct police function. This is an agency that is not intended in any case in the field of Interior. This is an agency that, from a functional perspective, is located in a different area of the Administration from the Interior, because precisely its objective is different. It is about giving security to the network and to the company and to the companies, obviously to the public administration, but also to the companies of the private sector, in order to be able to develop their pocket. And we understand that it is from this perspective that there is a need for coordination with the different entities and that we are also able, on the other hand, to face up to the energies that can be produced with all the necessary efficiency to protect the interests of the Administration in many cases, we insist, and even more so, in the case of private companies. There's one more question I'd like to focus my intervention on, and you have to see what the basic structure of functioning is. We said that the agency is made up of a board of directors and a board of directors. The majority agreement has been highlighted for an equal configuration of the board of directors – this is an important contribution of this law – and, for another band, it has also been tried from a functional perspective that there are members who have, in some way, an expert or who are linked to the field of security, but it is also important that in this board of directors there are members linked to other areas. In security, for a band, but also for information technologies, and even in the field of local administrations. When I talked about the areas of protection, I talked about the administrations, obviously in a very special and very specific way the local administrations, in this case. The statutes, which are Article 6, have not suffered in any way from the presentation of papers, and therefore it seems that there is also an agreement, in general, to approve it, a reason for which, which I also insist, in this space there has also not been papers by Ciutadans; therefore, we would not understand that there is no favorable position. And, later on, and what may be of interest from a more practical perspective, is that – I have already made reference to it earlier in the presentation – this is a law that will require rapid development, that will require a practical inn urgently, surely, and we need a new entity to replace the Cesicate. There have been very critical demonstrations against the Cesicat for very specific questions. I believe that, for another band, it has developed, too, since its creation, a rather positive pocket that I would like to recognize, beyond what you have explained. The Césicate has not only dedicated itself to doing what you have explained. The Cesicat, from its constitution, has done many other things than surely, such as were practically its basic functions, established at the time of its constitution, not given enough importance. But, certainly, the opposition parliamentary groups have focused their criticisms on certain actions of the Césicate; what is certain, however, is that of all these actions, from a judicial point of view, there was not one that the respondent had. So, we do want to be..., and put into value, in the end, that this agency was created because you asked for it at a certain time. The Parliament asked a Member who was unanimously approved to create this agency, which functions differently from the Césicate – and thus will function differently from the Césicate – who has a legal nature different from the Césicate – and who will have a legal nature different from the Césicate – and, moreover, who has certain controls that the Césicate did not have and that will have this agency. Therefore, we have practically satisfied all the concerns and interests of most parliamentary groups. I insist that it would be good if you had the necessary consensus from now on and that you had parliamentary groups, if you could not approve it positively, yes, at least we would certainly value forbearance in the law. Because I would like to say that some of you have already made contributions, but I would like to say that you are also willing to talk about their development; that this is the most important issue. This law, some other MP has already said, is a basic structure of the state. It can be killed by some parliamentary groups. The structures of state for some parliamentary groups are obviously strategic, necessary and basic for the future of the country; but, beyond that, for other parliamentary groups they are also strategic structures, beyond the consideration of what we mean by questions of national fall. In fact, one of the considerations precisely defined what was national or state, and at the end we somehow agreed to consider it in the view that from the point of Junts for the Yes and the CUP we seem to be more careful and necessary in this case. In the later term, there is a particular vote put forward for Junts for the Yes, because we are just considering, and in this aspect we did want to insist..., the Cybersecurity Agency, I insist, is not a unit of computer crimes, has no interest in falling police. It is true that there is a coordination mechanism, which is that in the usual activity of the agency, if it is actually an obvious fan or a visible fan or identify some types of fact that may be considered punishable and that in some way may affect the Criminal Code, it is necessary, by obligation and by responsibility, that it is given to the Mossos d'Esquadra, and, in this case, to the body or the Unit of Computer Crimes. But the most important thing, and that is clear and that we have a special interest in today's definition, is that it is not in any case the CNI – the deputy, also from the Socialist Party, has already said; it does not want to be the CNI, in any case; it has no hint of aspiration that it is not giving coverage, giving security and giving guarantees to all that digital activity is in the public and private spheres. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Guinó. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil asks to speak.]] Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.143.0	Yeah. I ask you to speak for Mr Guinó's contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.144.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.145.0	Yeah. Senor Guinó, that will be a state structure, of the Spanish State, to the extent that it will also be in the same cyber agencies as there are in Castile and León, Madrid, Cantabria, Andalusia, the Basque Country or in the Diputación de Guipúzcoa. Thank you. [[Some applause. Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.146.0	First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's vote on Exhibits 15, 23, 27 and 38. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 40 votes to 81, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on the 17th and 22nd exams. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 24 votes to 80, with 26 abstentions. We will then vote on the 35, 36, 37 and 39. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 24 votes in favour, 107 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposals. Let's vote for the number six. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 50 votes to 70, with 11 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for item 21. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 42 votes in favour, 89 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. Let's vote on exams number 19 and 26. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 37 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the reserved statements of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. Let's vote on exams 2, 3, 4, 5 and 9. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 34 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We're voting now for Emen number 14. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 25 votes in favour, 70 against and 35 abstentions. We now vote on the reserved items of the Popular Unity Application - Crying Constituent. Let's vote for Emen number one. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 18 puzzle. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 94, with 11 abstentions. We're voting now for Emen 25. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 28. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 30. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 31. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting for Emena number 34. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We're voting now for Emena number 40 in your first paragraph. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 26 votes to 94, with 11 abstentions. We're voting now for the number 40 in your second paragraph. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and 11 abstentions. We are now voting on a particular vote for the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. The vote begins. The vote was adopted by 70 votes to 50, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the issues following the opinion of the Board of State Guarantees. Vote for subsequent items number 1, 2 and 3. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 61 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the next item number four. The vote begins. The following item was adopted by 60 votes to 44, with 27 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the subsequent item number 5. The vote begins. The following item was rejected by 34 votes to 70, with 27 abstentions. We will now vote on the subsequent item number 6. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 24 votes to 71, with 36 abstentions. Let's vote on the next item, number 7. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 70, with 26 abstentions. We shall now proceed to finalise the text of the opinion. If the following item number 5 is not approved, we should take a vote. But how the number 5 has been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, now, this, let's go, in case you don't approve of the emena, since it hasn't been approved, we're going to have to take this vote. Therefore, we now vote separately on Article 2, paragraph 4 and letter c– Article 2, paragraph 4, letter c. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 96 votes to 24, with 10 abstentions. We shall now proceed to vote separately on Article 10, paragraph 2. Okay? The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 121 votes to one, with nine abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Catalan Cybersecurity Agency's Creation Bill was approved by 88 votes to 24 with 19 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposition of law on guaranteed income of citizens established by Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia]] [[202-00009/10]] The fourth point of the agenda is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Labour Commission on the proposed law on guaranteed citizenship income established by Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia. In accordance with Articles 121.1 and 138.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we will begin this debate with the intervention of the representatives of the commission that promotes the popular legislative initiative. It has the word, in the first place, the Lord Diosdado Toledo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.147.0	Many honourable Speakers of Parliament, Honourable Councillors and Councillors, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament invited on March 26, 2014, in this same Faristol, after presenting the Bill of Law on Guaranteed Citizenship Income, we call on the responsibility of the Members of Parliament not to defraud the hope that this important social right means. Today, July 12, 2017, will be a historic date that will remind the people of Catalonia, especially their most vulnerable people, when you vote in favour of the bill. The guaranteed income of citizenship is a social right that protects and takes over the entire citizenship of our country in an unjust, unstable, insecure economic system, which, as Pope Francis said, "kills. This social right is an authentic lifeguard for everyone. It is also an important social adventure in the sense of cohesion, in the redistribution of wealth and reduction of inequality, in the empowerment of people, in the better of their quality of life, that makes them more free. The poor in Catalonia are still at very high taxes. The severe poverty – the latest data from Idescat, this year – affects 6.7_percent of the population. The poor child is growing up, the poor are working with precariousness and devaluation of wages, many malevolent pensioners with benefits under the poverty line... In short, the best statistics of economic growth have not been transferred to the social majority or the most vulnerable population. Ending the poor also requires other measures, other policies, to vacate the environment of its cause; to advance in full occupation, in stable and dignified conditions, by distributing work, wealth, strengthening and improving the social protection system. This long struggle for the guaranteed income of citizens, rescuing from the oblivion of Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy, referred to in 2006, culminates today, thanks to the efforts and collaboration of many solidary people; of the 121,191 signatures of the popular legislative initiative; of the work of hundreds of fedataries and fedataries; of thousands of collaborators; of a plethora of entities, some seventy-six, representing a large part of the society; of the support motions of fifty-two joints and of the Council of Val d'Aran, which also represent a large majority of the population, of the citizenship of our country. In this great pocket we want to recognize the work of the deputies, assessors and assessors, of Mr Xavier Muro, who have participated in the post in the length of two legislatures. Thanks to his dialogue attitude, his willingness to reach a compromise to make this law effective, all obstacles have been removed. We have all made concessions on our initial positions, so that we can reach a broad consensus on the drafting of this law. In this process, the agreement signed on May 15 between the representatives of the Government of the Generality and the Commission for the Promotion, after an intense negotiation, overcoming difficulties and differences, was a decisive step, which flattened the path until reaching the unanimous practice in the struggle and then in the Commission for Work. To assess this law, there is not enough rigorous and legal debate in Parliament. To approach and dialogue with the most vulnerable people, to inform and listen to their opinions, to attend to their needs and feelings. In a recent act in Girona – and it goes for the companies and companies of Girona, which must be in one of the rooms –, with people hit by the long-running weather, threatened by denouncements, great lords, we Catalans and new Catalans, after explaining them the content of the law proposal and answering their doubts and questions, they hugged me with exceptional human warmth. Joy and hope lit up their faces, their graceful phrases still resonate in my head. These hugs, these emotions, the hope, the grace I want to share with all of you, with those who with their vote will give light to this law, with the government that will have to hurry to implement it, the law, and with all the entities and people that have made it possible to reach the goal, naturally, to all the activists who have participated in the promoter's commission. A hug from these people for you, too. [[Greetings.]] I want to remember all the people who have suffered the consequences of the poor, those who have abandoned us, victims of despair. His suffering and hope have been the fuel that has made us persevere until this great social right is fulfilled. Finally, some thoughts on the high view. Can you imagine what our society would be like if you approved the following year of approving the Statute of Autonomy? How much pain would have been avoided? How is it possible that an emergency law proposal has been processed so much? Should not the law of popular legislative initiative be improved to prevent this exasperating delay from being repeated? Finally, we announce that the promoter commission will continue its work to inform about this law and help its full implementation. Thanks again for listening to me. I assure you, one day I'll approve this law tonight, and I'll sleep happily. I'm sure you guys are, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.148.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Toledo. Next, has the word Mr. Sixte Garganté.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.149.0	Good afternoon. In the first place, thank the opportunity, as the committee promoter, to re-direct Parliament's plenary. We did, as the Godfather said, almost three years ago. Today, as the promoter committee, we want to make some considerations – in fact, only five – about the content and value of the law to be approved. First. It is a right subject to an economic benefit that the Government and Parliament will have to guarantee because who in Catalonia is under the protection of the poor who have the economic resources to get out of it. Next. The guaranteed income of citizens, as heard by the Commission, is a sufficient economic benefit. For the first time, it is recognized that the economic amount that determines the outburst of the poor is the economic amount of the benefit to do it. Even though it will not be realized at one hundred_per_cent until thirty_months ago, April 1, 2020, from September 15th of this year the amount will be 85_per_cent of the Catalonian sufficiency income indicator for the first person of the family nucleus, and it will reach a maximum of approximately a thousand euros per month in clusters of five people. In short, from the perspective of economic sufficiency, this law will benefit very many people and very many families, and supposes, both for what it does to the subject right as for what it does to economic sufficiency, a total break with the minimum income of insertion that remains legally repealed. It also involves, from the economic point of view, a first step in the indispensable struggle for the eradication of the poor child. Third consideration. The law of guaranteed citizenship income is also respectful of the rule of law made by Article 24.3 of the Statute: "All persons or families – all persons or families. The rule, in this way, a subject right for all poor people, is in a situation of exclusion or at the same time, there are no economic entries, whether they are poor or not working or not covering benefits, pensions or State aid. Those persons who do not have any income will be given full benefit of the guaranteed income of citizens. Those who have inputs with a lower amount will be given an economic amount to reach up to one-hundred_per_cent of the sufficiency income indicator. To those persons who have the condition of single-parent families with children and have a part-time contract of which they have a lower number of entries than the indicators that the fixed law will be effective an economic amount to reach up to one hundred_per_cent of the sufficient income indicator. Those persons covered by pensions, benefits or aid from the State with a lower amount will be paid an amount to reach the 100_per_cent of the guaranteed income. Finally, those people who have the condition of refugees, when the aid plan for refugees is finished, will also be made effective the economic amount to reach the cent_per_cent. In this sense, it also involves the law, which we believe will be voted and approved, a breach with the PIRMI. Wednesday. To put in value also that, for the first time – for the first time – it is recognized, as it could not be otherwise, the administered silence positive in the processing of requests for rights. This legal recognition of the positive management silence assumes that it does not only value the rights of citizens and citizens, but also the recognition of the efficiency of the Administration in the management it does not have to do. Finally, the committee that promotes it only needs to be asked that all the efforts made so far for everyone – entities, organizations, associations, people, assemblies, generality, with special recognition for the council – these efforts to approve the law have continued at the time of giving it to know and at the time of doing so to whom it is needed. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.150.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garganté. Then, according to Rules 118.4 and 121.1 of the Rules of Procedure, he has the word, to present the work of the Commission, the deputy Chakir the Homrani, who in vain appointed the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.151.0	President, members of the Bureau, advisers, members of the promoter committee, social entities of the country, trade unions, spokespersons of the promoter committee, members of the government and former members of the government, deputies and deputies..., I will try to make a very close intervention around the intervention that I am approaching at this time, which is like the rapporteur. And the mark of intervention must be the mark of the work of the ponència and how they have gone forward. Later on, I will delve into many fears that I will not delve into this intervention, but I think it is very important that we contextualize the debate we have today in this House. We come from a popular legislative initiative that collected 121,191 signatures, recognized for the Idescat. The beginnings of the work surrounding this popular legislative initiative, a time when these signatures were collected, began in the new legislature, with the admission of the proposal, with the publication, which they had, of the appearances, and with the nomination of the ponència, already in mid-2015, ponència that he could not finish his work in this area. Later, in this legislature, we've put this pocket back down, we've put that job back down. We started it on March 31, 2016, it was named the ponència. The first ponència, the first ponència meeting, was on April 6, and the last was on June 20, 2017. This represents thirty-one ponència meetings. I think it is important that we continue to be aware of what it represents: thirty-one meetings of ponència. Thirty-one ponència meetings in a year and three months, with a parenthesis of ponència calls – after that I will enter – three months. What this implies is that there has been a lot, a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of debate; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of discussion; a general discussion; a lot of discussion; a lot of debate; a lot of discussion; a lot of There was a lot of work to get to where we are, and the work started by the 121,191 people who signed. And besides, today I took advantage to remember that I signed at your time, until I still collected signatures at my work center. Who would have told me that he would end up talking about the guaranteed rent in this House, because at that time he wouldn't have thought of it. And this debate also explains the outcome we will have at the end. He explains it for a lot of reasons. It explains why in the end there was a debate in which all the agents – the promoter committee, the deputies and the deputies, the Government of the Generality – were very generous. If not, we wouldn't be here today, and we wouldn't have the result that we would have, and we wouldn't come up with an opinion without living considerations and that almost had unanimity, leaving aside a couple of articles, from all the ponència. It is very important to place this, at the time that it is important to place that, in these thirty-one meetings, the spokespersons of the promoter's committee took part at all times. And I think it's important that we find it – I think it's important that we find it – because it shows courage and transparency on the part of all Members of Parliament, on the part of this Parliament, at the time of managing a popular legislative initiative. They participated in the thirty-one meetings of ponència, beyond the other meetings that took place outside the ponència. They've been involved in all the ponència, they've been actors of ponència. The debates of the ponència are started from which it was a further debate about the general model. We tried to address... – from an agreement with the hope that the present law is the answer to the most vulnerable, to people in poverty in our country –, which we tried to do was to agree on a general model; to agree on a general model in which there was much discussion about elements and aspects that are clear in the law: the right subject, the empowerment of people, the relationship with the world of work, the complementarity and compatibility of work, if there were to be different lines of return or different types of performance... Now I'm pointing out so much above, because I believe that later on in the debate more of the speakers we'd already go into depth to value all these elements. A second part of the discussions there were about the amounts and the transitionality, and some elements of complementarity, which were of the most complex elements to reach agreement. At that time they were very lively debates, interesting debates, but sometimes hard ones. There was a time when we found that we didn't just move forward with the work of ponence. At this point, as we have commented, we have..., from some meetings that there were with all the groups, from the very end of the question that there were in the plenary on the part of Mr Moreno, of the Socialist Party, it was decided to give more prominence – and the Government accepted it – in this case, to the Council of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, around seeking an agreement on these aspects that were lacking in order to find the full box, which were: amounts, transitionality and complementarity with the results of the work. This gave us a parenthesis of the work of the ponència in the months of February, March and April. And from here on, the Mayan, when there's the approval of the promoter's commission and the government, let's get back to work. From the expected work we had already done, from the general agreements to which they come, we have just closed down the ponència. And we tank it with peculiar forces. And I think it's also to be placed and that's to be appreciated by all those present on the stand. We come to this House with a single opinion, with no living elements on the part of the group and with a will and a reality, which I think you will see from here to a sitting, to approve unanimously in this House the guaranteed income of citizenship. And I think we need to be happy, and I think we need to smile. And you say it's a smiley person, sometimes, huh? [[Rialles.]] But I think we have to smile, because I think that this work of this year and three months, this generosity that has held us all in the door to which it brings us. And that's why I think I have to finish this intervention as rapporteur adding work; thanking the work to everyone who signed it, to everyone who worked from the principle to get ahead of this popular legislative initiative; thanking the work to the commission that promoted guaranteed income – that I know you found each of the sayings, commenting on how all the work went forward – ; thanking the work of the spokespersons of the commission that today they have been able to address some words to us; thanking the work of the government, especially of the councillor, of the secretary general of Treball, of Social Affairs and Families, of Mr. Genesta, the director general of..., Mr. Josep Vidal; thanking the work of the government, especially of the secretary general of Treball, of Social Affairs and of Families, of the director general of..., Mr. Josep Vidal; thanking the work of the whole government, and of the women's special work group; I want to specifically point out a person who has made a complex paper around this whole debate, which is Mrs. Figueras: thank you for all the work you've done. Thank you for the work and patience you've had the speakers, because you've had to be patient: we've all been patient. It's been complex, it's been hard to get to that feeling, but I think we can be very happy. And I think that this least denominator that we have come to – and it doesn't get... if it wasn't a least denominator, we wouldn't understand the outcome of the vote that we hope to have right now – it's for the generosity and the work that everyone has done. I also want to take advantage of the work done by the linguist, the Agustí Espallargas, the manager, the Carme Alonso, and, especially, the Iletrat, the Lord Wall. We've done a lot of work for them. We've made them work, sometimes, with a long time and they've been very generous, and we also have to thank them for this work, this work of Parliament's servants who make it easier for us to work, for the Members and the Members. You might be happy. Now we're going to discuss the law we're going to pass in Ple. We'll discuss your strengths, your low points, because in a minimum denominator everyone will find your strengths, your potentials, but we'll be very happy. Many thanks, company and company. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.152.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Homrani. Then, to expose its position, has the word "Mrs. Noemi de la Calle", of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.153.0	Thank you, Madam President. Consellera, thanks also to the people who accompany us from the public; to all the entities and experts who came in the last legislature to appear on the occasion of this law; to all the deputies who have been part of the presentation not only those of this legislature, but also those of the previous one, among which was my colleague José María Espejo; to the lawyer Xavier Muro, managers and workers who have participated in the elaboration of the law. Thanks especially to Ernesto Suárez, who has advised me throughout this presentation. And above all, congratulations and congratulations to the group promoting this law that began with the collection of more than 120,000 signatures. I have to highlight the work of Sixte Garganté and Diosdado Toledo. Diosdado came to camp in Sant Jaume Square and to fast for several days so that the Government would accept the agreement, which had reached the entire opposition. And that is a great achievement that must be recognized: they were the first to bring all the opposition together to bring this law forward, despite the sticks on the wheels it has put us, because sometimes the Government during the presentation, for example, with the devocatory of some meetings with the refusal to offer us or to provide the valuable data in order to be able to quantify the scope of this law and its economic impact, which was something that we needed to..., when negotiating. It is difficult to explain in a few minutes the work of so many years of the promoter group and of the various rapporteurs, but... well, as I said if there is one thing to highlight is that it succeeded – the promoter group, it succeeded – that all the opposition parties let go of what separated us to see how we could bring this law forward. And also highlight the work of parliamentary groups, as Diosdado said, because we all had to make concessions in order to reach an agreement that would translate into a real benefit to the citizenry; an agreement that has been strong and stable over time. That is why, from Citizens, today we want to express that we are tremendously proud of a law that is not a basic income because of the mere fact of being a citizen, but rather a law that improves the rights collected in the former PIRMI or the minimum income of insertion; improves some rights.... some rights that already existed and expands by winning others, and broadens its scope in compliance with article 24.3 of the Statute of Catalonia, advancing towards this guaranteed income of citizenship. Let us remember: eleven years ago the Statute was approved and no government had been put to work, and it had to be civil society that put this law into effect, which is a safety net, is the last social guarantee of those people who have no means to survive and that also offers them the tools to get out of that subsistence situation offered by the law, to provide them with the capacities and mechanisms to regain access to the labour market and/or to recover their social network. He said that we were proud of this law, because it has room in that Spain with which some of us dream, for which we struggle from the institutions, because we believe in that solidarity state that does not leave in the gutter the citizens who most need it and that puts in their hands the tools to return to the labor market. And it makes a difference in so many ways. And I would like to take this opportunity to talk about three of them; aspects that represent progress, that represent progress and that, therefore, we regret that the party that supports the Government will not vote in favour of some of these advances, thus giving the unanimous support that a law like this should have. The first is positive administrative silence. The administration will have to respond to the citizen giving face in the event of refusing the benefit. And that makes this law a more secure law because it forces the administration to be more attentive to procedures and deadlines, because neglect of the citizen this time will not come free. The second, that, in the case of a serious illness of a family member, with proper medical accreditation, the citizen may be absent for up to two months from the autonomous community to take care of the care and procedures of the sick person in the hardest moments of his life. And the third, which for us is one of the most important, which is complementarity with income from work. Precisely, the Workers' Commissions have just submitted a study on poverty at work, which confirms that part-time work in Catalonia has increased by 11_per_cent compared to 2008 and it is women who suffer from these higher rates of partiality, with differences of more than ten percentage points compared to men. For this reason, we understand that this complementarity of income from work, therefore, begins with single-parent families, because, for the most part, these single-parent families are women affected by this part-time work, although, I warn navigators that Citizens are going to be giving the baton until that complementarity extends to all kinds of families and unions of coexistence. From Citizens we warned already more than a year ago in the Plenary of poverty and we presented a measure, which only obtained the support of the CUP, which was a guaranteed wage supplement that complemented the labor income of households that did not reach a minimum and from which workers with lower wages and more precarious jobs would benefit. A measure that is highly redistributive and also discourages the submerged economy. A measure to solve those Catalans who get up, go to work, work hard and lie down as poor. A measure that just over a year ago only achieved the support of the CUP. And I would like to express my satisfaction that this complementarity has been supported by a number of trade unions, entities and even some parliamentary groups, because this means that it is beginning to understand why the wage supplement has been assessed as one of the best measures to combat labour poverty. And it is the first step so that, as we have achieved in the Congress of Deputies to approve a wage supplement for young people, we can also extend it to the rest of the population, even being able to introduce it in Catalonia as a negative tax on income in the autonomous section, as it is claimed from the Third Sector Table. This law represents a great advance for society as a whole. In other words, poverty and inequality are obviously a social problem, but they are also an economic problem that affects us all. This is something we like to highlight from our parliamentary group, the economic side of inequality. The most egalitarian societies are the most competitive societies, and as long as we have these aberrant inequalities we cannot compete with the rest of the world and we can only compete, as we do now, with wage cuts that lead nowhere, but to fall more and more by the social and economic decline. Poverty and inequality need politicians and governments to fight with all their strength and resources to combat them. And, therefore, they have to see the budget in the fight against poverty..., they have to see the budget allocation of this law not as an expenditure but as an investment; as one of the best social and economic investments that this Administration can make for future generations. It's the best you can do for that one_de_cada_four Catalan children who currently live below the poverty line. Because talking about inequality is talking about loss of talent, because talent doesn't understand social classes, talent grows everywhere and we need to ensure equal opportunities for that talent to come out and not get lost. We need a strong middle and working class, with equal opportunities that can be the fundamental basis of the economic growth we need. He said that we are tremendously proud of these advances and because this law will allow many people not to fall by the cliff, but we do not want to fall into self-congratulation either. Just a few weeks ago we were talking about how the poverty risk rate had increased over the past year, and it is something that, unfortunately, I am not surprised, because, well, always..., I have already stated on several occasions that the priority of this Government has not been to fight poverty. The fight against poverty requires self-criticism in order to reverse certain policies or ways of making policy that, structurally, have helped to make poverty a reality today, so installed with us in society. We need to make far-reaching reforms that do not last a year, a legislature, but that last several legislatures or generations. We need to make the middle and working class also have opportunities to generate wealth and that will be the best way to redistribute it and meet social needs. And we are aware that this law is not the only tool to fight poverty and inequality, and that it must also be addressed from other administrations that have competences, such as the Congress of Deputies. For this reason, from Citizens we have proposed a reform agreement for all of Spain that will also be good for Catalan families. Many of them are already materializing, such as the tax rebate on persons in charge of persons with disabilities or older persons, or that persons who earn less than EUR 14,000_ do not have to pay IRPF, or those who earn between EUR 14,000 and EUR 17,000_ per year are saved almost EUR 1,000_ per year in IRPF. But let us not forget that, in order to end poverty and great inequalities, major reforms are needed, and that is why we have a lot of work ahead of us. Today is a day of celebration. A law will come forward that will help those people who are in a situation of poverty and without sufficient income, that will help them to have a more dignified life, and we must congratulate ourselves on having completed an unfinished paper and on having achieved and maintained until the end the agreement that we reached last year. And I want to finish my intervention by making a statement of intent so that no one gets caught lost. Citizens undertake to ensure that the inaction or malaction that may be exercised by those who govern does not limit or distort the objective of this law, with particular attention to the extension of complementarity with labour income and the generalization of all persons. As Diosdado said, today is a historic day. We have finally secured a right that has been enshrined in the Statute of Catalonia since 2006, eleven years ago. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.154.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Next, to expose the position of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.155.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor. Greeting the members of the commission who accompany us today in this plenary, all the entities that form part of it; representatives of the Workers' Commissions, of UGT; mayor of Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Núria Parlon; the directors of the Hospitallet de Llobregat, Jesús Husillos ; of Terrassa, Lluïsa Melgares ; all the people who today also have personal title with us have wanted to accompany us in this approval of the guaranteed income of citizens. A law that will presumably count on the support of the totality of the parliamentary groups that form part of this chamber after years of weekly negotiations, with their lights, with their shadows, with the inherent difficulties of any negotiation, but which we must not fail to remember that if this is an initiative that is up in Parliament for the effort of civil society, which by means of the collection of more than 121,000 signatures – in which the PSC also participated in its origin – they have been able to demand from the Government a substantial change in one of the most important policies to implement a protection system based on the guarantee of returns. Therefore, I would like to congratulate the committee for its work, the entities that form part of it, especially the Toledo Diosdado and the Six Garganté; the unions; the entities of the third sector for the constant struggle that today has come to a good end. I would also like to thank Joan Paz's pocket, as representing the PSC to the commission of the promoter; the Lidia Santos, which was at the beginning; those experts, directors, directors who have helped us throughout this process, and also the pocket of Eva Granados, the deputy, in the first part, let us say to ourselves, for the realization of the items of this law. Today we give the way out to a new right subject to Catalonia, the result of the development of Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy. We guarantee the minimum resources of a life worthy of people with entrances under Catalonia's sufficiency income index. A guaranteed income similar to that of communities such as the Basque Country, Balearic Islands, Aragó or Valencia, with some different aspects. Complementarity with labor returns; a supplemental income for those who subscribe to a social and labour inclusion plan, or recovery, albeit partial, of the cents per child that the government eliminated in 2011. Also the fact that it is compatible with non-contributory pensions or other benefits. In short, a good performance that we must congratulate ourselves on and in which we will be very attentive during its application. From the Socialist Parliamentary Group we will collect this law, as we have done from the principle. And, in addition, during the negotiation we were able to achieve that it is contemplating some aspects that we consider very relevant. For us, as important is the economic benefit as the fact that the Government guarantees the necessary resources to ensure that there are effective social and labour inclusion plans, because we consider that the purpose of the guaranteed income is to stop collecting it, with the benefit that the person has been able to get out of the situation of exclusion. That's why we insisted on their incorporation into the law, because we need to give the tools to take people out of their situation. We won't get the poor out of money. The guaranteed income should also mean an opportunity to reduce the bureaucratic dispersion that supposes to have 177 different benefits in Catalonia and to make a system more effective, simpler and more understanding for the citizenry and that does not mean more bureaucratic burden for the professionals of the social services, col·lapsed still today with the processing of different benefits. A guaranteed income that reverses the right of infants to have a benefit that assures them a few vital minimums, that allows them to build their future in equal opportunities. We have been able to move from the Government's proposal of EUR 12 per month per child to EUR 100 per child in September 2016. A guaranteed income with a follow-up commission where the municipal authorities will also be present; it has cost us but ultimately there are. A law of these characteristics without the participation of the local world is not a complete law. I could continue to degregate some important aspects of this law, but I believe that in Six Garganté he did not make a good summary and also the deputies who preceded me. Our concern now is what will happen from tomorrow. A good law without a good application can have harmful consequences for those who intend to help. And we have reasonable doubts that its application can be guaranteed. First of all, since the generation month of 2017, this very year, my parliamentary group has called for the economic study of this law. What's it worth? Where's the money coming from? How many people will it benefit? We understand that this information has to be kept by the government to make a law that approaches and adjusts to reality. Since the month of generation we have asked the councillor, the ponència, to write to the Government; the silence for answer. This same morning, my parliamentary group asked the Bureau of Parliament to work because, once and for all, there is an economic and social memory of this proposal. Is it so difficult – and would you direct me to Mr Junqueras if you are – to do a transparency exercise and give this information? It's a question of political responsibility, because today, when you explain the guaranteed income, the recurring question is: how will it pay? Where's the money coming from? And it's a great deal to have to get to a point of asking the man at the Bureau of Parliament to attach the economic memory. This government's economic obscurantism exercise with this law is unacceptable and the irresponsibility to pass a law like this without knowing the economic scenario can pass bill during its deployment. We have doubts about its correct application because today, when twenty-three days are missing for the inn in the effective margin of this law – I do not count the month of August – the vast majority of the professionals of the social services and the SOC – of the Occupational Service of Catalonia – do not know the law, its procedures and its mechanisms to use it and to deal with requests from 15 September. Yesterday, in Montcada and Reixac, I had the opportunity to talk to some of the leaders and workers of the SOC and the social services; nobody explained anything to them and on September 15 it will be them and they will be helping the people who want to ask for it. But not just the professionals, the gatherings don't know her either. Consellera Bassa, this very same day the presidents of the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the Catalan Association of Municipalities have sent him a letter on textually saying: "The municipalist entities want to make clear that we have not had information regarding the proposal of guaranteed income from citizenship at any time from the department. It seems they haven't had time in a year to get together, or they didn't want to or didn't seem to be important. All folded a bad – and worrying – news. Ladies and gentlemen, let us hope that the demand for guaranteed income remains high, that it will reach more people than above the minimum income of detailed insertion from 2011 until today. But we are also concerned about how it will manage this increase in demand, how it will, how it will manage. And so much so that we care about ourselves and so does the government. And this fact motivated the last proposal to the government once signed the pre-agreement with the promoter commission, which I believe needs to be spelled out, for surprise and for concern. We were asked to accept eight months of processing with a negative administration silence, something inadmissible for the rest of parliamentary groups, which we have granted to reduce it to four months and with positive administration silence. Asking a family, with tickets less than 545_euros of the past six months, who hoped eight more months to collect it is a very clear example that what you, the government, understand by social urgency is very different from what we understand the rest. Therefore, we remain negated, because, as well as the approval of this law, we do not know how much it costs or whether they have money for their own exercises. They have not informed the professionals, they have not reinforced the names of places to work inclusive plans, nor just the municipal world in sap res. Convince, understand our reservations. But now it's not the end of a road, we're just starting to walk to make a subject right that the Catalan Parliament is offering to the city that is passing it. We can celebrate it when the right is done, when steps from paper to reality, because unfortunately we have many examples of laws approved in this Parliament that have not been deployed. Despite economic recovery, the Catalan society continues to see unequal growth and inequality. Each time it is more difficult to establish the shelter for which a person can live independently or fall into permanent exclusion. The challenge of the next few years will focus on how we fight against the chronification of the poor and exclusion, also among those working in the workplace, but on precarious conditions. The guaranteed income, with a good application, will help to do so; but to think that a family of four with just over 1,000 euros a month will come out of the poor is not to know the reality of what is going on in our country. A guaranteed income is not enough if it is not accompanied by routes to the world of work, a decent minimum wage, adequate working conditions, effective equality between men and women, a public health system, a real guarantee of access to housing, a public pension system that guarantees decent pensions, public education for everyone in an inclusive school and a tax reform that is more effective. Advancing towards a guaranteed income that gives a real response to families at risk of social exclusion is the success of those people and families who suffer the most from the consequences of the crisis, who do not arrive in the end of the month, who travel for precarious jobs or for the offices of the social services. But it's okay if it's okay. All the political parties in this chamber, the promoter committee and the government have made an effort to reach agreements and we have managed to do so by talking, negotiating and negotiating. Six years after the Catalans and Catalans suffered the consequences of a brutal economic crisis, this Parliament is a positive initiative. We sincerely congratulate ourselves on today, but we will continue to watch until the last person in this country who is likely to have guaranteed income does so, and we will not hold back from continuing to respond to those who look to each other and expect us to solve their problems. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Congressman. To express the position of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.157.0	Thank you. Greetings and thanks, to begin with, at seventy entities, unions, professional colleges, parties that you have been a part of, that you have formed of this commission promoter. You got what you wanted: to mobilize to secure rights and change policies. He expressed it that way, and, congratulations, you got it. Thanks to the deputies and deputies of the other groups with whom we have worked in the ponència; to the electorate, Xavier Muro; to the Sixth and the Diosdado, obviously. It has not been an easy task, as it has been expressed before; but in many cases not so kind, surely, in many moments, but we all need to be satisfied. And allow me a more personal thank you to Laura Massana, a Member who passed me the replete of this subject after fighting it in the last parliamentary term, from the Parliamentary Group of Initiative and Left Unity, and to Marta Otero and Joan Coscubiela, who have been over my head and, at the same time, the engine when I was missing in the work of this job; and to some anonymous people, who will remain anonymous, but who know who they are, that at a certain time they wrote and put black on white this text that today brings us to a law of regulation of a right. Today's a happy day. We're realizing with this law a new right of citizenship. And that doesn't happen every day; in fact, it doesn't happen every year. We are regulating a right subject not conditioned to presuppositional availability, a universal right, a right of justice, a right to guarantee minimum dignity to families in difficult situations. Therefore, everyone who has right to access it, everyone will have to have this right resolved. We're making the assumptions necessary to complete this right and not the other way around. And that doesn't happen every day, not even every year. Therefore, today is a very important day and today must be a happy day. We are here today, and let me make a little history, thanks to the ILP's impulse organizations and to the 121,191 people who signed it, but not just. We are here today because there was a work planned, also driven by civil society, in this case for the majority unions – Workers' Commissions and the UGT –, at a given time because the State of Catalonia has a card of rights and dues, and because in this card of rights and dues there is a right to a benefit, a guaranteed income of sufficiency. And so, and without going through and political opposition in this same room because this right is there, it ended up with Article 24.3 of the State saying that "all people or families who find themselves in a poor situation have the right to access a guaranteed income of citizenship that assures them of a decent life. It's true, the years passed and these legal conditions that had to be regulated by this state-recognized right are not applying. The crisis, the ups and downs, the labor reforms, the labor reforms approved for the second five years, and the government's details But also in social services, like that as basic to attend to the poor as was the minimum income of insertion, or the prior PIRM, that Mr. Ignasi Farreres – who is here – knows perfectly [[some applause]] As a counselor, he created it. So, all this has made the situation of inequality and unworthy conditions of our people's lives worse, hitting – hitting – the thousands of families, the most vulnerable sectors, especially childhood, women and the great people. And it was the crowded citizenry that decided to enforce that pre-established right in our Statute and make concrete proposal in this Parliament because it is regulated. And from here comes this ILP, but the Parliament did not respond as a calyx. The ILP was presented to the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia on March 26, 2014, and throughout the last parliamentary term it was halted, with a politically sought delay, because it did not pass. We have been able to move forward in this legislature, but slowly, we must also say, very slowly, much slower than we would have liked. We got here, we got to a good end, but for the way we leave a lot of people. We're late, sure, for a lot of people. And that's what we need to be able to say, too. Many people have continued to paint to ensure rests, for and light to their family. And what we have rejected from the Public Administration during this time has been a minimal income of insertion detailed in its access since 2011, and today is still what they are getting. We come here, however, with a guaranteed income of citizenship that is based on principles such as equality, equity, empowerment and autonomy of people, universality, solidarity, complementarity and public responsibility in the care of citizens. Grumpy. We get here with divestitures. We've moved on to the initial proposal, in progress to get there, haven't we? – until 2020 we will not get there –, at one hundred_per_cent of the quantity that was fixed, in the progressive incorporation of certain collections, in how it is calculated or in how many members the family nucleus, in the division into two sections of this service... We could say more, but we must be satisfied because the object, I believe, we have fulfilled it. Deputy Laura Massana said in the debate on the handling of this ILP on March 2014: "With an ILP there can be for or against it, but what it is not possible to do if it is accepted is, in the process, to distort it. I think we've managed to make sure he's not misguided. This has been the goal of Catalonia Yes, it is during this legislature. That's why we didn't make statements and that's why we fought, because the essences of guaranteed citizenship income are kept. And it's maintained that it's an individual subject right, and it's maintained that it's a non-conditional right to presuppositional availability, and it's maintained the right to a plate– the right to a plate– of follow-up for people; it's maintained complementarity with other services; it's maintained that the performance has to be sufficient, and therefore we focus on the new poor, those new poor, such as the profiles of the people who have seen themselves very and very affected by austerity, adjustment and retail policies; and it's maintained that we don't only resolve or deal with themes of structural poverty, but also of the new poor, of those new poor, such as the profiles of the people who have seen themselves very and very affected the poor, and it's maintained that we don't only resolve or treat themes of structural poverty, but of the new poor, of those new poor, such as are the profiles of poor people, especially those who contribute to the poor. All these aspects, all important, have fought one by one, all; therefore, they are absolved conquests that today must make us happy. We are, therefore, about to realize a new right that will mean a point of inflection and a step forward, but we must not limit ourselves only to celebrating it. Now that this collective commitment, because this right is growing, is maintained, because September 15th, counsel, must be realized. And there are technical, logical, questions about the table. Precisely counting on us to make this a reality, because we have grown up since the first day and still believe that the guaranteed income of citizenship is ours in this country. And so now that we have, and we have to be collaborators in this sense, it's that it works, that it works well, and also that we have to be collaborators in spreading it to people who may be likely to receive this benefit. It has cost, we say, to get here, but it is a consensus of a country that starts a turn to approach the poor from assistanceism to a fight against inequalities from guaranteeing rights. It's an important turn, and it's a turn that's gonna need to keep working. Now, if this model turn we want to deepen it also we can update the sufficiency income indicator, which is frozen since the year 2010. And that has to be done now. We also bet on active employment policies, not by precarious occupation, like which one wants to generate with the nickname "Barcelona World", and improves in the world of work to have decent jobs. And we also need to use all the capacities that Catalonia has in redistributive taxation and that are not intended to be used not to touch those privileged, privileged minority of this country. Today is a happy day – and so I want to end, just as I started – for which you have pushed this law; a happy day for those we have put ourselves in politics to be useful to the citizen; a happy day for the most vulnerable citizen, who sees how Parliament listens to it and is compromised, and a happy day for the country in general, because this law and this new right that we regulate today with this law benefits us all, because without social cohesion there is no democracy. There is no free country without a cohesive country. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.158.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Then, to express the position of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.159.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, deputies, deputies, and greet, therefore, all those who today accompany us in this act, right? On this historic day we seem to be living. And, well, before showing our position, we respect this law, so we need to make a series of thanks, starting with the committee that promoted this ILP, which started its parliamentary process when at that time it was deputy Rafa López who stood by the original text that was modified, the result of the contributions of all the groups. And, in a special way, therefore, I want to refer to the Diosdado and the Six, who have not given up a second in the fight, right? With an objective, a single objective, and that was to realize this income of citizenship, which will allow to cover the basic needs of the most disadvantaged sectors of the population, developing the autonomy of the person, as well as its incorporation in the labor market. Thank you, Diosdado and Six, I am a clear example of tenacity and, above all, at the length of this time, of negotiations with the government and parties, of infinite ability to dial, at times when it seemed that everything was going in horror. Also thank the rapporteur, the Chakir, for his good work and, above all, for the patience he has enjoyed far away from this peril, right? , that today brings us all the way here. Also, then, to the rest of the speakers of the other political parties. And, well, and to the cast of the ponència, Mr. Xavier Muro, therefore, to resolve those doubts and to put us to the day of how the ponència evolved. Having done the graces, I will go on to assess some aspects of the law, but before I also want to do, then, some preview. And, first of all, to say that this law has been the fruit of many hours of work on the part of the promoters of the ILP, the Government and the different parliamentary groups, hours of work that have been translated into a voluntary dialogue, sessions, sessions, sessions, consents, stretching-out... It has been difficult to get here, but it pays the penalty to be able to present this text today, which will allow, as the European Commission has foreseen, to provide a minimum income for those who have been hit by the economic crisis so that they do not have..., to face the minimum expenses that they entail in our society. In fact, the European Union, and as foreseen in the preamble to this law, in the framework of the European Strategy 2020, is to reduce the number of people living in poverty and social exclusion by 20_million. Secondly, I would also like to say that this law, which will enter into force in mid-September, will enable us to resolve something that the previous governments did not know how to do, and that it was the amendment of Law 10/1997, of the minimum income of insertion, and that with the new legislation will be repealed, with the exceptions established for the same transitional arrangements. And in the end, then, well, this consensus has come to light, which will be evident here today, in this Parliament, with the votes of all political groups, and, well, from our party to the UPC, I think we will vote for it, and this shows that there has to be a lot of dialogue, a lot of consensus, and a lot of stretching and shooting, right? And, getting into the matter, isn't it? This law, therefore, consists of seven transitory arrangements, which show that their total deployment will widen over time. We know, for what it does to economic quantities, that it will gradually unfold until it reaches its full implementation, April 1, 2020. Also for the time being, complementarity with work returns will only apply to single-parent families with dependent children. And here I think, from my point of view, that we've made a mistake, and I'm going to say it, and it's that no one has included the names of the families. According to what, when it turns out that the benefits of some also belong to the others, but curiously, when it comes to benefiting in a certain way the names, then all the groups of this chamber make a living, and this to me became very clear when I asked the councillor, you have to do a_me, roughly, that this government, therefore, does not bet for this family type, about 120,000 in Catalonia, and when the objective data..., I said Save the Children, I say Caritas, I say Red Cree: that these families, precisely, are found in the outburst of the poor, more than half, and over the monoparents. It is also symptomatic that, at the time of establishing the amounts, account has not been taken of the cases in which there may be one or more children from the family unit. In short, you will see the same in a family unit where there are three children who in those where there are five, for example, or six. And at this point we see that the law is not fair enough, and that this universal and solidity, in this question, is put in question. So, that's why and for other questions, this isn't our model, it's not the model we're going to approve today, but, well, we've said since the first moment we're going to support it, right? For what it does to the complementary and subsidiary character of the performance, I want to focus on it, precisely, because it has been one of the debates that I think most ampoules raised in the debate on the question. Finally, as it has been written in the same law, and we hope that this regulation will deploy it, there are sufficient mechanisms to avoid any type of fraud. It will be the Administration that will have to age because actually the Vaginal benefits to which they are to go and, if not, it will punish who wants to take advantage of the new legislation. Article 17, on financing, of this law. It is considered the guaranteed income as a right subject, it has been said, that it runs under the assumption of the Generality, in addition, says the law, of other contributions that other public administrations can make. It is the Government, it is the Government who is responsible for the expenses involved in the implementation of this income, and in any case the assemblies, which may well have to subsist, the deputies or the same government of the State. If this law comes into force in mid-September and will be deployed by April 2020, it's because the government has made its numbers, which we haven't seen, and you're assuming you can make it happen. Let us hope that after that there will be no responsibility for those administrations, therefore, which do not have to assume it. We have given the green light to a law that is a step further, too, to the present PIRMI, but we will have to be very careful as it develops its rules, and I want to make special reference to some questions that are not defined. Firstly, when it comes to Article 7.3 that people who do not meet the requirements laid down but who compete with extraordinary circumstances, etc., are entitled to the guaranteed income of citizenship. I think you'll have to define very well who these circumstances are. Another of the issues that need to be resolved in the regulation is data integration. In fact, outside the confidentiality and reservation requirements, a file is to be created and, in fact, so you foresee that it is done in the regulation, a single file of personal data that encloses all services of economic character, including guaranteed income from citizenship. Another issue that needs to be established by regulation is how local and third-sector entities can participate in the process, management and follow-up of employment and social inclusion plans. And I take this opportunity to make a call to the government because it clearly defines what role they have to play in front of this new revenue model that we will approve today. They must not assume an increase in work, and less expense, and, in the case that is so, from the government they will be asked to inform and above all to provide the necessary resources, both technical and material, to get to cover the needs of the people who have right to this benefit. And in this sense, it is said that coordination bodies could be set up to ensure their effectiveness. Also urgently – importantly – review the map of social services in Catalonia, and which you already foresee this law, with the aim of rationalising and simplifying what already exists. The application of this income has to allow a better use of the available resources, thanks to the necessary restructuring and compaction of our protection system, with greater agility and de-bureaucratization of the processes managed to solicit and resolve the different aids. It's not too much time. Finally, I believe that with this law we trust that the Government will take advantage of the creation of instruments, so that it will enable the activation and exploitation of Catalan skills so that each person is the protagonist of his or her path of inclusion, an objective that should be achieved not by obligation, but by responsibility, that each person feels subject to action and, therefore, participated in the process of building a more cohesive society, in which everyone has something to contribute, and above all that this aid ends up becoming a work place, which in the end is what everyone wants and what they want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.160.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.161.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, today's an important day, and it's not just because the guaranteed citizenship income is approved, but because a law is approved that is the result of a citizen mobilization process. And that's why our first words are grateful to the ILP commission. Thank you so much for all this. Today is also an important day because, despite the difficulties of being able to pull through an ILP – technical difficulties, regulations, materials... –, today this is possible. And we approve of a law that is the result of a lengthy process of gathering firms, of many hours of jails on the street, of a very lengthy parliamentary process... And it's that it should be more usual, to adopt measures, that end up feeling laws, that come from the citizenry. But the architecture of representative democracy does not make it easy for this space to be a space where citizens can enter and exit and propose when they want it and when they need it. I take this opportunity to explain that in the context of the rules of the CUP - Crida Constituent we have been working on issues in this sense, to be able to make it easier for ILPs to deal with themselves more easily. Therefore, our second words of thanks go to the organized people, to all those essential who, despite the crossroads to make this Parliament a space for the service of the citizenry, do not fail. In the third place, and once we got into the matter, we wanted to value the initial text that the promoter commission worked on. It was an initial proposal with a clear logic of redistribution of wealth, which responded to the extreme situation he saw, lived and continued to live in this country, which, moreover, implied a substantial change, a paradigm shift in the management of public policies aimed at addressing inequalities. In addition, it was based on a complex analysis of the poor. We understand that the poor are no longer able to analyze themselves with the same simple terms as we did years ago and that the new forms of poor are complex, that they no longer explain themselves about whether someone is working or not, or whether they have fewer children or more. And all this initial proposal collected it. In fact, the CUP even entered a couple of items that incorporated even more elements than we understood explaining the precariousness of our home, such as having an irregular or regular administrative situation, or other measures that did not restrict the return to that most precarious people. It was a line, an equals income key. Nevertheless, between this initial proposal, which, like all the proposals, could be improved, and the opinion that we will vote on today, the difference is abysmal. And here I differ or I just didn't agree with all the speeches that preceded me. I went so far as to say that we would support the guaranteed income of citizenship, that we have worked very hard and that we have always tried to give support to the promoter committee in all the debates we have had. However, we understand that a critical look needs to be placed on the table and that, with all due respect to all the people we have worked on, that what we approve here today is a proposal for a minimum and that it does not involve a transformation of the coordinates of the map of the poor in our home. For a band, and from a gender perspective, guaranteed citizenship income has a family background. And it may sound like a technical theme, but that's not it. Why isn't this a technical issue? So, because the family unit, like a marriage to demand guaranteed income from the citizenry, reinforces the inequality of gender in the family itself, in the sense that it does not involve a mechanism of women's empowerment, because it does not, from the outset, take into account the patriarchal construction of most families. Surely many more men than women will be the collectors of guaranteed citizenship income, and the women will administer the benefit in the family's si. Renewed to the hour, or what we've had so far: a state of well-being with familiaristic logic, to manage the breadwinner's sound in the performance of guaranteed citizenship income. For another group, and from a perspective that fights against racism and the ghettoization of migrant populations, we understand that it is not transformative either. For those migrated families a minimum, continuous and effective stay of twenty-i-four months of legal residence is required in Catalonia. He says the law, literally, that if there is a cry effect, which will have to be found with an increase of at least 10_percent of nine requests for guaranteed income from citizens of recent censuses in Catalonia, it will be possible to extend the requirement until thirty-six months. For us this point is scandalous, because it literally restricts the right to people of other origins, based on a foreign law that is profoundly racist and classist. If the good part of the poor people of our country are of other origins, what will need to be done is to develop public policies that take into account that the poor is complex, that inequalities intertwine. And, therefore, what our public policies cannot do at all is to restrict rights, so to speak, and thus to increase the vulnerability of certain profiles. Finally, and from a class perspective, we understand that it's not a transformative measure either. It has been explained a lot: the guaranteed income of citizenship is of subjective condition, not conditioned and consists of two trams; the second, linked to labor insertion and compulsory compliment. That's what I'm saying because the right to employment has been placed on the table. It's not law for us in the form of a right, but an obligation. On the second tram, it is understood as a supplemental benefit, it is one hundred and fifty euros, but it is counted on the si of the total benefit. That is to say, if the insertion plan is not successfully completed, starting from a fictitious labour market scheme, with the capacity to offer quality jobs, these hundred and fifty euros are withdrawn, except for those concrete cases where it is believed that the person cannot work, but exceptional concrete cases. And in the case that you follow the insertion plan and you reject a work_only considered adequate, you lose the totality of the benefit, even though it is part-time and you assume fewer tickets than the same income. This opens up three vectors of analysis. The first, that breaks the logic of this new paradigm and, therefore, is not that it is an income linked to life, but that it is linked to work. The second vector of analysis is that..., it is said, complementarity with tasks that do not suppose to charge more than the index of the IRSC leads us to the debate that we may be directly subsidizing, say, entrepreneurs and businesses that are not paying under worthy. Finally, he has striven to ensure complementarity in those most precarious collections, which have already been exposed, and, in this sense, we have given support. But it's still a debate. The third vector of analysis is that, knowing how the labor market works, the diversity of jobs that come to me under the adjective of "adequate looks more quickly a way to remind people that if they don't have work, it's because they don't want to. Therefore, the guaranteed income of citizenship does not imply a substantial change for those people who are already poor, but it will be a way for them to survive a little better, that it is not little, but it is not enough. Following in class, it is necessary to expose that guaranteed income from citizenship will not be universal – it is obvious, if it will only be for those families without tickets – and it will work with this index that has already been said, and that it has also been said since 2010 that it is not touched. Does anyone think that with 664 euros anyone can survive? Does anyone think that a family with more than five members and 1.208 euros can survive? Other times, the evidence: guaranteed income from citizenship is essential, but it is not enough. And it's that he didn't want to go along with this law with a brave tax reform. He didn't want to touch the estate tax either. It was not intended to accompany this whole series of privileged measures, which the poor explained by the redistribution of wealth..., it explained by the accumulation of wealth—excuse me—and it was resolved by redistributing it. The poor is not an endemic evil against which we can do nothing. I'm done, President. We understand that they are courageous policies, oriented towards equality, dignity and dignity. Often, when we say that it's extracted from utopians. Gramsci said, reflecting on utopia, that a socialist project passed to guarantee a political order that makes possible the full realization of human personality recognized to all citizens, and that this would, in fact, be to all privileges. We here recognize each other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.162.0	Mrs Vehi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.163.0	I'm done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.164.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.165.0	Yeah. We recognize each other, and we know it's possible. And we end up, besides, with the Garcés Navy, which says that, in capitalism, you can no longer expect any decent life. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.166.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Mr Gordó, non-attached MP, wants to intervene? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Have a minute. From the escó? [[Pause.]] From the escó estant or wants to come to the Faristol? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.167.0	Thank you very much, President. Only three points. The first, congratulate us; congratulate us on the approval of this law, which makes us a more modern state, which, moreover, allows us to develop a statutory right, and which, in the same way, allows us to fight better against the poor, in favour of the weakest. Second question: thank you. Thanks to civil society, the driving force behind this law; thanks to the Members who participated in it, in a special way to Chakir and Anna Figueras; thanks also to the rest of the members of the Government, and to the technicians and administrative staff who participated in it. And finally, in view of the development of this law, that in the development and execution of this law is not produced two facts that I can worry about. The first, the increase of the fiscal pressure; of the fiscal pressure that somehow affects the middle classes and the benevolent classes... [[relays]] , which does not produce this increase in the fiscal pressure of the middle classes and the less benevolent classes. Therefore, if someone is to increase the fiscal pressure, they are in the most benevolent classes. And the second question, that never – never – to the benefit of the execution of this income, with which we all agree, can produce an effect: that you can obtain greater family perceptions through this income than from the income of the work. If you decline, that you increase the minimum interprofessional self, that it is fought for better and fairer sous, but that never, in any way, with guaranteed income there may be major tickets that..., through this guaranteed income.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Next, has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.169.0	Thank you, President. I'm going back to saying hi. I'm not going to enlarge much, because I've already done them as rapporteur, but I do, before I start the intervention, because I prefer to do it before – I think it's better to do it before an intervention that you have much thought about and very much thought about staying in the middle of things – I do want to do a reflection. And it's a reflection that left me the body... the interventions that have done so far – not all, not much less, huh? , basically, the first two. I'm sure I'll do some thinking. There are..., it's legitimate and legitimate, it would just be missing, working from the opposition, making good opposition, forcing, making clear..., but I think that sometimes we can hear a constructive opposition, the one that has the ability to come to terms and put it in value, and sometimes they surprise some opposition that you have the ability to come to terms, but because it's not something that happens, nor does it stand in value, decontextualize elements, and it makes it happen that at a time when we have to start saying that we all have to be very happy, so someone is a little surprised. And I did want to do this reflection and leave it for..., beyond that some elements that have settled and some doubts that have settled Members and Members believe that in the intervention I will be able to solve them. From here I start the intervention. You may be happy, you may be happy. I think what we're doing today has several elements. And I want to start with a continuation of a job that has featured the Catalan society, the Catalan social fabric, that we have here in front of us, that we have the adjoining rooms and that we all know is one of our threeors. There's a continuity; there's a continuity around the 1990 PIRM Decree—now there's Mr. Farreres, who was one of the builders; before Mrs. Ribas put it. I think we have to place, in this sense, that it has a historical continuity, and that it is good to place it. We also have to be honest, touch and need to move forward in policies to confront the poor and give answers to the most vulnerable citizens of our country. But I did want to start with this idea. The law we pass today has the most vulnerable in the centre. And you've got them from two perspectives. One, ensuring the minimums vital to being able to live with dignity – and we can discuss many elements but there is an important increase in numbers – and grab them and accompany them to avoid social exclusion, they are well aware that today social exclusion, and I believe that we have all done so, begins with job exclusion. And exclusion from work can be given two ways: for the expulsion of the labour market or for which it is a very strong precariousness of the labour market that ends up generating poor workers, the phenomenon of poor workers. Then I'll go in with a little deeper into this aspect, which has been one of the themes we've discussed most in the law. And this is nothing more than improving the living conditions of the most vulnerable and disadvantaged; as always, limited. And we could always say we could go a lot more there. I think the past that we do is very important and we have to be very happy for the past that we do. And this is basically supported by principles that have very clear law. In the first place, and it has been settled by several Members and Members, it is a subjective right. And that's very important. In the second place, the amounts of the benefit, right at the beginning, already have an important boost. Currently in the minimum income of insertion is charged between 423_euros and 707_euros. Already from the beginning of this same year it will increase from 564 to 1,061 and at the end of the transitional period, 2020, from 664 to 1,208. I think the amounts have to be valued and they're there. It's what makes it possible to secure the meaning of this law. On the global model agreed on this I also believe that we have managed to reach a consensus. And the consensus, logically, is the lowest common denominator and everyone has to give in to elements, it would just be missing – it would just be missing. But the consensus is that there are two types of benefits between guaranteed income: a guaranteed benefit and a supplementary benefit linked to the signature of the undertaking to achieve a one-year and extendable plan of employment or social inclusion. The idea is not only to respond to situations of vulnerability but now, in the company we are, we have to be able to take over the people, we have to be able to accompany them. And I think it's very important in this sense that there's a guaranteed benefit that you provide, but there's this supplemental benefit. The person can decide freely, but he is part of the model pact. And I think he's a good model, and I think we need to be happy with the model. Logically everyone has given up; nothing happens. It's also a very brave bet around complementarity. And we have to say, we complement services that are not our responsibility. I feel someone saying around here..., who says: "Well, what should be planted is to dignify these benefits. But well, that's no problem. Fem this bet, and it's a brave bet. I think it's a very brave bet. We are also introducing one of the themes that has had the most debate: the complementarity of guaranteed income with the returns of work. It starts with single-parent families and leaves an open door in the law. And here I really want to hang on for a moment. It was one of the most debated points. And it creates a contradiction: the reality of poor workers to whom we must give an answer in a very precarious labour market. The last labor reforms of the various parties that have ruled... all this situation generates a situation of very harsh precariousness. And, then, what we must also place is that, from here, we do not have competition in the regulation of the labour market or in that of the interprofessional minimum wage. The Head of Government of the State has completed the European Social Charter. Because these amounts could be changed and they could have a very different context if it is complicated once that the minimum interprofessional wage was 60_percent of the average wage, that we would be in a minimum wage of a thousand_euros. And while you don't have these skills, I think you need to be aware that you're playing with uncertainty here. I think it's a brave bet: the door opens, it's left open. And I think we're going to have to analyze..., there's a board of governments – with unions, with economic agents – that will allow us to look at the evolution and to look at the situation... Because this is also generated with another debate, and it's a debate that we have to face, and it's one of the debates that I'm most pleased with in this law, that it's a debate of the future and that this law is working, that it's the role of work in our societies: which paper will have the work, which way this work, which has been central in building people's identities and dignity conditions, is evolving and how it should be given an answer. And I think that with this we are opening a reflection that is a very future reflection, and in this sense thank you for the opportunity to open this reflection in this Parliament. I think it's very interesting, because we don't know where the job market is going, it's very different and it has a lot of interest in us doing this reflection. And that in the policies of rendering, of complementing rendering, that this is an overture, a passage around these policies, around what was already there, that we have a historical continuity, but around what, there are many more experiences. And I have always said this: we are in a guaranteed income debate, we are not in a basic income debate; another absolutely legitimate debate, but it is another debate. I think that in this debate and in this future of the labour market it is very interesting to introduce these elements of debate. But, well, we can and we have to be happy, we have to smile: today we approve a right – we approve a right – and that's important, we bet on a society where equal opportunities are at the center. The right of guaranteed citizenship income is important, but now we don't forget the right to work. And we don't forget it because, in the background, a company that works is a company where the right to work, in decent conditions, works and works well. And this is an object that we don't forget and that in the law is visualization. We make a law of the country, we make a structure of state without being state, arriving at unanimity in this Parliament. I think he's very good, I think he's different from working. Leaving aside comments and elements that I don't want to go in there, because I don't think it's up to me to party today, then, very short of sight, I think it's an example that we have the ability to get to this very least denominator. I think it's very powerful – I think it's very powerful – and I think that a law in which the most vulnerable, the most disadvantaged, are at the center, is a law that deserves this society, aside from whether we get to everything we want or not, aside from the fact that, as always, everything is better, because it will be difficult to manage, and especially with the times we have agreed, but all we have agreed. And here I am, and especially, at the words of Mrs Ribas, who I think has made a very impeccable intervention in this sense, because we will need the support of everyone: of social fabric, of entities, of assemblies, of everyone, to do it as best as possible. Because we've all given a date, which is September 15th, we've all given it, and we have to do it. And we hope that someday the State will complete its obligations. So, that's... only on the subject of minimum wages... but it would also be good for some who donate lessons not to vote against similar elements in Congress. But, well, I don't even come in here anymore. Gentlemen, congratulations. Congratulations on the work done on the entire commission. Congratulations, Diosdado; congratulations, Six. We've had a lot of discussions, it's been very complicated, but I congratulate you. And truly, congratulations to all of you – to all of you. I think they might be very happy. And, if I may, President, yes, basically, and with a ton of honesty – and that was on the last question – we didn't agree with two elements that we think might be connected in another way: on the subject of the silence administered, we thought we should open a debate about all the benefits, because so, and we thought it was interesting, even so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.170.0	Mr. Homrani, you should be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.171.0	... – so, yes, I'm finished – we made some proposal that we didn't get..., and around which way we complemented the PNCs. So, what we are asking for, and we have said on the question, is a separate vote from the third additional provision and Article 25.2, which, as we have been asked on the question, we will abstain, because it is not that we are against it and so on, but we thought that there was another way to solve it. And thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.172.0	Thank you, Mr. Homrani. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, Mr. Homrani. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] As there are no reserved items, we shall begin the vote on the text of the opinion. I am responding to the request of the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, in the first place we will vote on Rule 25.2 and the third additional provision, in a joint vote. Therefore, the vote begins. The rule was adopted by 72 votes to 61. We will then vote on the rest of the text of the opinion, incorporating the two technical points, which have been signed by all parliamentary groups. The vote begins. The proposed law on guaranteed citizenship income was approved by 133 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Asking the Government about sexual abuse and health]] [[300-00191/11]] The sixth point of the order of the day is: it asked the Government about sexual abuse and salvation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, as always, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. Mrs. Lienas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.173.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, deputies, deputies, sexual violence against people is a multifactorial problem that has to do with social matters, with greetings, with moves, with justice, with education... In Catalonia we have created insufficient circuits that respond to multifactoriality, to which, however, the lack of resources, the lack of training, the lack of leadership, and also agile coordination mechanisms. Today, counselor, with this inquiry, we want to address sexual violence only from the point of view of salvation, because sexual assaults are detected from health services and for the consequences that on the salvation of people have these attacks. Although it is only legally considered aggression if there has been force penetration and/or use, I will use the term sexual assault in any case. I will consider, therefore, sexual assault, even if the Penal Code does not see it that way, that a father touches the vulva of his daughter are worth the emotional bond or that a man bruises a woman at a major party. Let's talk about the data or, more clearly, the significant absence of data, because, counselor, sexual violence is the most hidden of all the rapes that women, children and children suffer. It costs to have statistics, because it costs that it is recognized for victims, for families, for institutions and for the government. Sexual rape is invisible for cultural reasons, i.e. ideological reasons. We're resting on the data we have. Between 15 and 20 percent of children and young people have suffered sexual assaults with a remarkable bias towards children; it is estimated that three children per child. Between 15 and 25 percent of adult people have suffered sexual assault, of which 90 percent are women. That's why in the previous examples I talked about a girl and a woman, because they're more likely to be victims. Data on the aggressors are still more hidden, but according to the studies consulted or for which the Mosses say, we can say that 90_percent of sexual assaults are eaten by men. This has a non-biological but social explanation: the patriarchal structure of our society. Thus, sexual violence is a more form of male domination, a more form of subtly towards women. Sexual rape is used as a weapon and is justified for – and I say with irony – the extraordinary male sexual power, almost uncontrollable. So, then, women and homosexuals are serving real men – and I also say it with irony, of course. Infants and young people are also sexual objects in the eyes of many. The Squad Minors Unit says that most sexual assaults on infants and young women perpetrate, first of all, the pairs, and second place, the nine pairs of the seas. The perverse effect of the patriarchal structure did not end here, there is more. The women are second-guessed, and by virtue of this patriarchal logic their witnesses cannot hold any more of the same as a man's. With this, counselor, what I came to say is that women do not believe them and that instead of clinging them to institutions, they treat them with hostility. This is why institutional violence is said. From the point of view of salvation, for what it does to sexual assaults on infants and young people, we have two units: that of Can Ruti, to Badalona, and the UFAM of the Hospital of Sant Joan de Deu, to Barcelona. The first is recent strength, the second was created in 95, and, although on its web page you say that they perform assessment and diagnostic, follow-up and treatment, the certainty is that they act only as a detection unit that provides a diagnostic in the form of forensics for justice. And, look, I'm telling you, counselor: once the UFAM says there hasn't been sexual abuse, no one can change that diagnosis, even though they're two years old and they don't keep referring to sexual abuse. This unit of detection always has similar statistical results: one_third of cases are diagnosed as sexual abuse, a_third that is not a_third that is not known. That is to say, only a 33_percent of the infants and young people who pass there have a diagnosis of abuse, which contrasts with the statistics that speak of a 15-20_percent of the affected population, if we consider that who goes to this service is not a general population, but a supposedly abused population. This unit has had a very poor appreciation in the sexual rape reports commissioned by the Catalan Institute of Donations, Antigona and Positive Creation. From the point of view of sexual assaults on adults, we have a unit at the Hospital Clínic, the Comprehensive Care Program for Sexual Violence, a model that is coordinated by health specialists, forensics, social workers, etc.; a model that is not only made detection, but also is given continuity to the attention of the salvation of victims, both for that it makes to the urgent problems as to the sequels that they have long term. This service comes very well in the reports I mentioned earlier. But, counselor, we only have this for the whole territory. The rest of the country do what they can, but without having a specialized model. The shortcomings that we have for the care of sexual assaults from the Department of Health are, therefore, various and notoriety: lack of units of detection, follow-up and treatment linked to public hospitals; lack of care for the victim as a victim, whether he denounces an aggression to himself as to his creatures; lack of training in general. As indicated by the Cedaw Committee and our own Law 17/2015, of effective equality of women and men, training is necessary to avoid falling into some of the male prejudices that contribute to revictimization; I will mention only a few: a girl or a woman victim of aggression cannot talk about it more calmly; a victim of sexual assault must be forced to be ashamed and/or traumatized; a victim can never recover quickly; the real sexual assaults are reported immediately; a woman who denounces herself to an easy option to obtain some benefit. I leave it here, but there's a lot more. We also have a lack of agreement on protocols. At this point, there are three essential problems. One is the fact that the specialist diagnostics are looking for physical evidence that is very difficult to prove, except when there has been penetration. Counselor, if a three-year-old girl is used for a pornographic photo session, there will be no physical evidence, but sexual assault will have existed. Two: the fact of using for the diagnosis psychological theories that have been refuted, as is the case of parental alienation syndrome, also known as morbid concern, transfers, manipulation, declared for the Spanish Association of Neuropsychiatry a theory without scientific basis and with a clear masculistic biax, and therefore not valid to diagnose. And another problem with protocols is the fact that they don't give credibility to women's or children's and young people's versions. We're missing follow-up, too. For example, counselor, a case in which UFAM considers that aggression should not be proven should not be resolved; it would be useful to follow up on what happens to that father and to that creature. Lack of treatment to promote the physical, psychological and social recovery of the victim of sexual rape, protecting their salvation, respect and dignity. And I wouldn't want to end this inquiry without making some cases for which special protocols are required: people with intellectual disabilities, mental illness or substance dependence. I want to make clear the anguish that many families have expressed to me with disabled creatures when they learned what had happened to Taiga school. I want to recall here a case that I mentioned in a previous ple, that of a girl with a disability of 85_per_cent that, despite the evidence that the family was bringing, was not well attended either by UFAM, by the Department of Education or by DGAIA. More special protocols for people with any functional diversity; children and young people who find themselves in centres under the protection of the DGAIA – according to studies by the specialist Noemi Pereda, young people in the protection system have a 43_percent chance of suffering sexual assaults, which doubles the half-yearly; large women who have suffered aggressions at the length of their lives, for example, at the hands of their peers; migrated women or victimized women of trafficking, which are not likely to appear in states, and migrated children who are likely to suffer genital mutilation or forced marriage; LGBTI people; institutionalized persons are in residences, psychiatric hospitals or prisons. But, above all, counselor, we lack prevention, and we lack a good approach to sexual rape, and we lack to remember that it is men with positions of authority in the religious, political, educational, family, who commit most sexual assaults, since they just trust the impunity that their actions can hold. What do you plan to do, counselor, to guarantee the rights of women, children and young people in relation to sexual assaults? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.174.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. To answer this question, on behalf of the Government, has now the words of the Councillor of Salut, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.175.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank you for putting this issue on the table. I think it's very necessary, very opportune, very..., and I'd still say it's mandatory. And, therefore, I think it's very good that today we can discuss this. I will also announce that I will be able to talk about the actions that can be undertaken by the Health Department in the field of our competitions, because I am not to be asked to speak for the government's conjunction. But some general considerations at the end of his intervention: it is a plague; in the case of minors it is a hidden plague. It is to say, when the Council of Europe tells us in a report of the year 2010 that sexual abuse affects about 20_percent of children, and we see the number of effective complaints that there are in a country like ours, every day, that it is an irritating percentage of the child population, meaning that at these times there are hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of creatures that are victims of sexual abuse of which the system has no knowledge, of which the institutions, already social, health care, judicial, have no knowledge. And, surely, of all the forms of social anxiety that a society like ours has today, which are many, this must probably be the most hidden, or one of the most hidden, and we need not be conscious. That is to say, unlike other important social problems, in these times we still have a good job, which is to make it appear, to take 'consciousness, to know that there is a problem that at these times still remains under the silence of the mostly familiar surroundings, but not only, schoolgirls, who conceal these forms of violence. So, absolutely. In this sense I have always been a..., went to say a great supporter, a defender of tasks like the Vicki Bernadet Foundation, because in this sense she has been a pioneer in Catalonia, eh? And now I don't want to spend seconds on this, but we have to give support to all those who try to make us realize that we have a hidden plague – hidden. Then, according to what's happened, the causes of this plague are fundamentally social, they're cultural. And, therefore, there is institutional action that can, when the causes of a problem are social, intervene to try to solve it. Therefore, we have a responsibility, from the governments, from the moment the causes are functionally social and cultural. I went, not to take away the question that you asked me, to the responsibilities that we may have from the Department of Salvation. They know that at these times we are working with the update of the interdepartmental march protocol for the case..., now I am in the case of sexual abuse to minors, which is leading from the Presidency, but that there is an important work also by the Department of Health, on this issue. And in any case, we're reviewing the health protocol, that is, the clinical care protocol. Because in the case of abuse, it's about minors, it's about adults, the Department of Health intervened from the moment some health professional has some indication that there's been some abuse. And, therefore, what it is about is how the Health Department helps to do the..., how health institutions – forgive me, not the department – help to do this diagnosis and how they put it in the knowledge of those other institutions, it is the DGAIA, it is the judicial institutions, so that it can fight. Give it to UFAM. The UFAM..., it is true, the UFAM was born at the impulse of the same organization in which it is rooted, that is, from the Hospital of Sant Joan de Deu, therefore, it was an effort that wanted to make that hospital center, and that until 2016 was not recognized as a functional unit, and since the past year we have already recognized it as a functional unit with a specific contract, which allows us – from the moment that the Cat Salut recognizes UFAM as a functional unit and, therefore, there is a contract – to lay down clauses and conditions that allow us to advance in the best of this unit. Because I'm sure that for a song we have to say about UFAM that it was a pioneering unit, that's who started it, but I'm sure we have to say that there's a lot better in the pocket than all the institutions are doing today. We have detailed knowledge of the complaints that have been removed from the syndicate and the city office. And, stop it, if you're working on it. Who are the best they want to pull forward? First, review the protocol on the basis of which the professionals of that unit act, which is the most structural review you can do in a case of these. I mean, the protocol needs to be reviewed in its integrity, and it's happening. Two. We need to redefine the contents of the reports to focus on the child's health value. UFAM is not about to make a psychological assessment of the parents, of the mother; it is about to make an analysis of the infant and see, from the point of view of health, what are the clues that allow us to talk about Abus. Training. Absolutely agree: training, training, training and training. Training also because they are learning more and more about how to approach each other and each time there is more research done, there is more knowledge, there is more expertise on how to address this problem, this phenomenon, and, therefore, training. And here we are also in dialogue with the Vicki Bernadet Foundation in relation to its contribution as an expert in the formation of UFAM professionals and any other unit of this very natural, incorporating the gender vision. Four. The configuration of the team reinforcing the psychological attention after what you said, the expertise. It's not about doing an expert and it's about paying attention to the infant who may have been sexually abused. Therefore, there must be a structure of the team that allows this follow-up, this follow-up. This means that psychological attention needs to be strengthened in subsequent months. And family intervention projects in those cases of greater social complexity. For all this, because this is not just good intentions and so long as this is also true, in UFAM's assumption for 2017 there has been an increase of EUR 56,000 to make this reinforcement of psychological care both for the child and for family intervention. Of 340 cases attested, of all sorts, at this time the Hospital de Sant Joan de Deu has only been able to respond to cases detected since the I of 2016, which are a total of set. It is true that the CMBD of external consultations was implemented in 2016; it is currently still in the validation phase, and therefore it is very difficult to obtain previous data. Therefore, in how many cases has a morbid care diagnosis been made? Set of 340. Still, according to the new protocol, it is obvious that a review of this approach has to be made that has been done so far from UFAM. You said that too, you were talking about institutional rape. I fully agree that we must be absolutely jealous of the institutions that in the exercise of their functions many times can exercise relations of..., we can say many ways: of little respect, of little empathy, of domination, in relation to the patient, to the city, to the sea that approaches a center of these. And so, yes, institutional violence is an innate risk to public institutions – educational institutions, universities, health care institutions – and, therefore, from the Administration we have the right to control and monitor these institutions so that these situations of institutional violence are not produced. So let's just say that when we're talking about sexual abuse, we're in front of a presumed crime, and so we're also entering a dynamic that's the rules of the judicial safeguards game, and the crimes have to be proven. And here we have one of the big problems that cannot be solved either with a decree or with political will or with presumption, and that have a much higher complexity, which is the objective difficulty, many times, to prove..., because to prove, in judicial terms, means to prove, « proof is « proof– « proof is « proof»– [[Funnel veils]] , yes, yes..., but the meths many times may have only some clues, but a clue many times is not a proof. Therefore, the difficulty..., it would be absurd to deny the objective difficulty of demonstrating proof of an abuse that has consequences in terms of charging a crime. Therefore, unfortunately, we are in a land that is bordering between the strictly sanitary and diagnostic dimension and the criminal dimension, and the moment we enter the criminal universe there is the difficulty of proof. In any case, I think that where we have to approach... where we have to make a special effort, and now I will just explain it in the second part of my answer, it's in prevention, and it's obvious that the field of health and care institutions, for what it does to prevention, can also have a very prominent paper.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.176.0	Thank you, Counsellor Comín. Got the word Mrs. Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.177.0	Thank you, President. Yes, yes, Counselor, what I expect from you are actions in salvation, which is why I have focused on your department. I'm glad you're in such a good mood, and I appreciate it. Now we just need to put a thread in the needle and solve all the things that we have to solve, that there are many. For what he does to the failings of the Department of Health, I recommend reading the reports that he told him that he commissioned the Catalan Institute of Donations on sexual rapes. If I can, then, at the end of my intervention, I will quote some of the shortcomings that they see. For what it does to UFAM..., miri, for what UFAM does there are very serious lacks of look of genere, they have clear androcentric patterns, and they also have very serious lacks in psychological formation. Obviously – obviously – having a clue isn't having proof, but it's that we weren't talking about crimes, we were talking about questions of salvation, huh? I don't... but we're talking about questions of salvation. That is to say, we have to solve a question of salvation; then the question of crime will come. I'll give you some examples of what happens to UFAM. Miri... Miri, this sentence is bullshit from a UFAM report: "The motivating motivators of the consultation are scarcely consistent, he says. And I'll explain. The few consistent motives are two criminal proceedings against the father, one for possession of child pornography and the other for production of child pornography. The second accusation is based on a report of the Squadron Mosses made when they recovered photos with a lube purpose that the man had deleted. In the photos there was the child examined for UFAM and its cosines, but UFAM did not seem to have a sufficient query. To me, the truth. Now that I'm reading it is transcribed from a recording; the psychologist tells a mother. He said – I'm sorry, I've lost myself –: "An abuse can never live naturally, do you understand me? I can't have abused you and been cheerful. That's a harm, counselor. Now I read him a fragment of a card; say, the letter: "As for being asked to explain the facts before his daughter, it would indicate that the children often the coast separate from their mother, so if they are in the same room, and while the child plays is a fan of the pair. Do you really believe, counselor, that a creature cannot be separated from the mother and that it can be kept there in front while asking the mother about the abuse suffered by the daughter? Sounds amazing to me. Certainly, the reporting seas are often obliged to explain the facts also before the parents, the man to whom they are reporting, or who they believe is the abuser. I continue with the letter: "The report concludes that he appreciates morbid concern. Do you remember? It's the theory not accepted for the Neuropsychiatry Association because it's fake and for the masculinist biachist it has. I continue with the letter: "There is morbid concern," he explains, "when after having a diagnosis of no abuse, the mother is not calm and continues to think that there has been abuse. But as she wants it to be calm, a mother, if she thinks that the person who valued her daughter has seen her two times half an hour and with this she hasn't had enough to discard the Abus, but the mother is, she's not sure, because the child has explained to her that she doesn't want it because she does it very well after the father put his penis in her mouth, put it hard and took it away from her? The UFAM, however, considers that the mother has taught this to the child, although her pediatrician, who is here, specifically, certifies that she has abused it. But what UFAM says goes to Mass. That's why if your thirteen-year-old son who's in the door feels abused, write a letter to you saying he thinks he's more likely to die than to go on like this, you, mother, won't get anyone to listen to you, no moves, no judgments, because the UFAM report of when the child was three years old says there's no abuse, I guess. The seas diagnosed with morbid concern are threatened with a removal of guardianship of the creature if this continues to present alterations of conduct, such as, for example, understanding, regressive conduct which is very often when a creature suffers sexual abuse, but which UFAM considers to be the fault of the mother. Certainly, counselor, the card the fragments from which I have read them is signed for you. With this I do not want to put the saying to the head of the way, no, I just want to say that there is no gender formation, that there is no gender formation; that neither you nor the syndic – nor the syndic –, that it was the petition of this woman and aimed at this letter and gave it for good, have a gender vision. In fact, the syndic – who compared the diluns – recognized us, that neither he nor his team have it and that they need training. And we insist that we don't just need training but that we need people who have expertise in gender. I know this is a delicate issue, counselor, but it's not a matter of privacy or privacy, it's public and it's political. It's a very hard rock that affects our society and before which we can't close our eyes. We need a model to approach sexual rapes already. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.178.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.179.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, beyond all that, I think that you and I are very much in agreement not to say anything, honestly. And I'm telling you, not pateixi, the department's commitment to fighting child abuse, child sexual abuse, and all sexual rapes in general, but specifically about child sexual abuse, is maximum. Mys was already before I was a counselor; I was already working with the Vicki Bernadet Foundation when I had no obligation to do so, because it is a subject for which I am particularly sensitive. So, I didn't feel bad because we'll find each other in the room, and I'm sure we can make one of the ambitious ones that can be, all the helpful ones that can be. But the only thing that I was pointing out is that, unfortunately, this will not diminish the objective complexity of the phenomenon, because, if not, it would not be such a hidden phenomenon. If it's such a hidden phenomenon, it's because there's an objective difficulty in bringing it out. What are the failures of the care network in its function of detecting this? Sure. And I said to the beginning: it's a sacra and it's a political issue, and so much! I told you. As the causes are social, that automatically makes it a political issue and that automatically makes public institutions have an obligation not to be left behind. So, I insist, I'll look at the reports. Now you see the agusta and I'm sure we'll have time to do things that we couldn't do during this course. I am pleased that you have already told me that the report appreciates that the Prevention and Treatment Programme for Victims of Sexual Assault at the Clinic does work well, and if what you say is that we should generalize it to the territory, I say yes, of course, as the premise allows, let's say it, right? , because that, obviously, costs resources. And that's a priority, okay, but we have a lot of priorities, and not all of them are going to be in the presupposition themselves. I, for what he does to UFAM, I told you. I have tried to tell you the way I seem to correspond from the point of view of my institutional position, but I have been quite explicit. I mean, now that we have a contract, now we can go in and redefine the UFAM and its operation in a much more active way, and that's why we're talking about reviewing the protocol, which is a lot, because the revision of the protocol has to be used to avoid all these cases that you explain to me, and we're talking about incorporating the gender view and we're talking about reconfiguring the team. I'm repeating what I said before, but I'm saying it because what actions do you think you're doing from the Health Department? In the case of UFAM, I have been very concrete, I have been concrete. And we're talking about formation, formation, formation; absolutely – absolutely. Beyond that, he also wanted to point out that – if I find the..., exact – in the revision of the protocol of salvation for which he does the abuse of minors, beyond what the UFAM protocol will be, the protocol of salvation must, of course, be included in the new marc protocol, which you know is being driven by the Presidency, take cases – above all the one that has been most known through the media – of the Maristes, etc., the paper that has held the union of hardships precisely in this question, and an important step in this basic clinical protocol: to extend it to the primary, that is to say, to incorporate the primary in the clinical protocol of detection of maltreatment. And, therefore, this is one of the steps that has already been decided to be the ones characterizing the new protocol. It also deepens, by the way, in the detection and handling of prenatal maltreatment, which is also a form of violence – it is also a form of violence, prenatal maltreatment – and is working on the design of functional units of reference in the territory; the idea is a proposal of seven units. In addition, we are participating in the project to create multi-disciplinary child sexual abuse diagnostic units, which is one of the decisions taken at the government level on the latest cases, the review of the Marc protocol and the creation of multi-disciplinary sexual abuse units. And, finally, I insist, all this will not be useful if we take ourselves seriously and don't put a lot of energy into the formation. And, therefore, training and awareness plan at a much more expert level for unit professionals such as UFAM, and at a corresponding level, in the case of the health care network joint professionals. I welcome, and I finish as I have started, that you have put this issue on the table because it gives us the opportunity to make a motion that will be much more important than this question, it seems to me, because in the motion we can put black on white concrete measures, those that I have explained, the measures that come from parliamentary groups. And I predict that this young man, who I understand is going to vote in his own House, will be approved unanimously. I don't think I'm wrong if I say it's going to be approved unanimously. Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-12-3901.180.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning, at nine.
