ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.1.0	The session begins. Too late to all and so to all. [[Greetings to a new Member]] Before starting this session, in the first place, I would like to greet the new Member, Xavier Safont-Tria, who joins his parliamentary tasks. Welcome. [[Greetings.]] [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] For another gang, unfortunately, they told us that last October 14 a woman died in ruby as a result of male violence. According to official data from the Department of Interior and the Català de los Dones Institute, the number of victims of male violence has increased by eight. In the name of the chamber, I reiterate the condemnation of these crimes and express my most sincere condolences to your family and friends, and reaffirm once again the commitment of this Parliament to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[General debate on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia and its possible effects]] [[255-00004/11]] The only point on the agenda is: general debate on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia and its possible effects. In accordance with Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure, this general debate shall be governed by the provisions of Articles 151 and 152 of the Rules of Procedure. As this debate is on the initiative of two parliamentary groups, we will begin with the intervention of the representatives of these groups proposing to present the reasons for their request. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, the Lord Lluís Corominas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.2.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, first of all, say that I am very proud to be able to speak from this Faristol on behalf of my Parliamentary Group of Juntes per el Si. And, second of all, why make it clear how we start this Ple, a record for two people to be, who should be in freedom, like Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] We will do a brief intervention, this initial, because the intervention of foundations will do it later. We asked for this ple, together with the CUP - Constituent Creed, because it is here that the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, in the Parliament of Catalonia, is wrong, and it is the Parliament of Catalonia that must answer the aggression of the State in the form of a council agreement of ministers of the past diverdres. The Spanish State, with violence, with coercion, with threats and using police, judges and prosecutors in a way barred, has tried to avoid the right of Catalans to decide our future violating individual and collective rights and limiting the freedom of Catalans, and wants to impose its Constitution, the unit of Spain, with blood and with blood. In the subsequent intervention, I said, we will fix the debate on funds, but already the advances that we will end up fixing the new direction of our country. The replacement of the Government and the limitation of the functions of this Parliament presuppose an aggression by the Government of Spain to the people of Catalonia without precedent. This building in the Palau del Parlament has a lot of history, because the assemblies of light and darkness, you know, come from the 11th century. There have been many attacks on parliamentarianism, on the people's sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, for centuries, but this is one of the hardest things to write about. And we won't allow it. This Parliament and the Government of Catalonia are not the property of the Council of Ministers of the People's Party; they are of the people of Catalonia. We will propose that the response to this attack on Article 155 of the Constitution should continue the mandate of the people of Catalonia in the referendum of '1 October. All right, all right, [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Next, on behalf of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.4.0	Very nice late. Also very briefly, in the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, we believe that there are the reasons that justify, because they are absolutely obvious, that this Parliament is endowed with a space of debate and decision-making in relation to the entry into the scene of the worst face of the Spanish State: Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution; an article that, moreover, is proposed, in its material application, in our view, absolutely on the margin of the same laws of the State, asphyxiating the small seals held by the Spanish Constitution, without limits, without control, without democratic control, without legitimacy; an article that does not belong to the sect of revenge and humiliation, against independence? No, not just against a whole country. We are moving towards the suspension of democracy in Catalonia, which is nothing more than a desire for re-centralisation; that it does not only go to Catalonia, open Pandora's box of the state council, and does so, moreover, endorsed by a European Union that seems to need more suspensions of rights and more suspensions of freedoms in order to apply even more forcefully its political "austericides". A 155 that brings the seal of the Popular Party block, PSOE and Ciutadans, the visit of the monarchy and the applause of the most reactionary, most conservative and most powerful sectors: the lobbyists, the ones who are never present in the elections, never make references, but always win. 155 is a challenge to the democratic and right state, to the entire political, legal and institutional system; a 155 that wants to suspend this very Parliament from the functions it has assigned, with total impunity. And he'll still be here to say it's to restore democracy. We sleep in a tsunami of dismissals, interventions, suppressions, and you know what else. Today, we can still open the debate and, above all, the passageway, try to see the intelligence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.5.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Is there going to be intervention from the government? Don't you? [[Pause.]] Let us continue the debate with the interventions of the representatives of the parliamentary groups to fix their position, for a maximum of thirty minutes for each group. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.6.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the Kafka process was not as Kafkian as the Puigdemont process. This is already Kafkian, this is a terrible ridiculous. That's enough, President; that's enough. I believe that there are millions of people, millions of Catalans, who are watching television today and who say: "We have already run out of patience. How far do you think the Catalans will go? Do you feel that what you have done today is normal? Is it normal for you to be ashamed that we have had to pass on all those who want to this institution, those who defend this institution, those who defend Catalonia's autonomy? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It has been, indeed, Mr Puigdemont, regrettable. And to stop the ending, that is, to finish the ending, don't you even have the decency to come here and talk to the representatives of the Catalans? [[Some applause.]] But how can this be? Look, the other day, last Monday, I did a press conference, and at the end of all the journalists, who were not few, asked me: "Do you think President Puigdemont will go to the Senate? And I said to them, "Look, I don't know, I don't usually talk to President Puigdemont much lately, but I don't think he's going to go to the Senate. They say to me: "How is he not going to go? But if you have to make the allegations. I say: "President Puigdemont is the president who least likes to give the face of the world. You never want to argue, Mr. President. You didn't go to the Senate when you had the chance, why? Because the rest of the presidents would be able to talk. You didn't go to the presidents' conference, why? Because the rest of the presidents would be able to talk. You didn't go to Congress when you were invited, why? Because he doesn't like to argue. He never makes a reply to us. The other day you came to make that declaration of independence, which then suspended it, did not even reply to us. We have asked you fifteen times to appear in this Parliament, fifteen times, the opposition groups, to come and talk about different subjects during this parliamentary term. Do you know how many times he's been here? Zero. You don't like to face up, Mr. President, you don't like to talk, you don't like to argue, you don't like to negotiate with anyone who isn't like you, with anyone who doesn't think like you. You go out, at a press conference, no questions asked, read a written text, like the other day, and it's over here. Or yes, he likes to go to the ANC rallies, of Ómnium ; to when you have it all very controlled, then yes he goes, you. I'm really telling you that if you had any legitimacy left to be president of the Generalitat, today you've lost it. But I swear to you that even I was surprised that you did not even go out today to give your face, to explain to the Catalans, not to us, to the hundreds of thousands of Catalans we represent, to explain to us what happened today, President. Well, today, he could explain us years; but with him explaining what happened today, we would settle. And they asked me another question on Monday; they said to me: "Do you think President Puigdemont will call elections and return to legality to..., well, to stop all this now? And I said to him, "Look, I don't know, but I don't think so. Do you know why? Because you are the president of the Generalitat that has missed the most opportunities; you have had opportunities to stop all this and have been missing them one by one. Do you believe that a president of an autonomous community, or of a Land, or of a department, or of any region of any country in Europe, would have had the opportunities you have had to rectify after what you have done, after the challenge to democracy that you have committed? Do you think Mrs Merkel would have sent you a letter asking you: "Did you really declare independence, yes or no? Is that what you're talking about? Do you think Mrs Merkel or Mr Macron would have given you that opportunity? I don't think so. And I think there are millions of Catalans who think neither. The opportunities you have had to dialogue, to go and defend the interests of Catalans, to explain what was going on, to try to find a solution, you have let them pass one by one, and the last is today's, of the elections. It has been a clamor in the last few hours, President; a lot of people, related media, editorials of related media were telling them: « President, posti les urnes. The only way to stop everything that was going on, and you knew it, was to return to legality, return to the Statute of autonomy, return legitimacy to this Parliament, and legality, and call autonomous elections. And you, again, have avoided dialogue, because you don't want to dialogue, you don't know how to dialogue, President Puigdemont – if you didn't, you'd make replicas; if you didn't, you'd come to face it today; if you didn't, you would have gone to the Senate; if you didn't, you would have gone to the Conference of Presidents – and you left a fantastic chance again to end this. He's hurting us a lot, the process, Catalonia, president. You use the name Catalonia a lot, and those that are most affected are Catalans. And again I say one thing that I have told you many times: you cannot speak of the fact that the people of Catalonia are united in a cause, it is not true; the people of Catalonia are divided. And today you have perceived for a few hours what it is to receive some criticism from that part of the population that had put so much hope in you. I don't know if that's changed your mind at the last minute. They have felt the breath of what nationalism is, for once, on their necks. But it's just that, President, don't really stop passing any more opportunities. He is still in time – he is still in time –; he is still in time to return to legality and call for elections. They will ask me again, journalists, and I will say: "You have time, but I don't think you do. Because then you would stop being President Puigdemont, to be someone else, to be another kind of president. Today, what we have seen is the drop that has filled the glass. We are losing legitimacy and credibility at the international level. You can't do this with the image of Catalonia, President Puigdemont. There is no right to do this to the Catalans. And I tell you more: even yours. You have deluded an important part of the population of Catalonia to which you will not be able to give what you are asking, what you are promising. I do not know if you remember, a few months ago, when we were able to have a debate, without replicas, as you always do, and I said to you: « President Puigdemont, the Catalans will not come to me to look me in the eye to tell me that we have deceived them and that we have promised them something that could not be done, and that we have promised them the happy archadia of independence and that in the end it has remained in nothing. But you are going to be asked for explanations. I told him months ago. And I think you've sensed a little bit of what's coming to you today, Mr Puigdemont, because, as much as you keep promising things, nothing you've promised to all those people who've been legitimately deluded is going to be able to take place. And what's worse, you've loaded the autonomy of Catalonia. We just want to get her back. You don't respect the Parliament of Catalonia. If you do not want to speak to the legitimate representatives of the opposition, we represent more Catalans than you! You do not even defend Catalans in those areas of dialogue and negotiation, such as the Conference of Presidents. Too bad our president can't talk about improving infrastructure for Catalonia or improving a financing system. If you didn't want to go. He doesn't like to argue, he doesn't like to talk. It is the President who has spoken the most about dialogue and the one who has exercised the least. You like the monologue: read a speech, a monologue, and don't ask questions; don't argue. He cannot appeal to dialogue the president who has least dialogued in the democratic history of Catalonia. And you have gone against the Statute of Catalonia, against the Council of State Guarantees, against the Rules of this Parliament, against the lawyers of this Parliament. You have gone against the foundations of democracy, Mr Puigdemont. By the way, this Parliament, which reopens only to talk about the monotheme. Do you know how many weeks you have been out of control, Mr. President? , that's another sign that he likes to give his face very little. Eight weeks; seven weeks and something. There is no president who is not in office..., because when a government is in office it is normal that there are no control sessions, but that it is supposed to be working, that it is supposed to be working, that it takes two months without submitting to a control session. It is just that you should already, out of dignity, ask the President to allow her to submit herself to a monitoring session, President, for personal dignity. But what's going on? That you don't like to talk, you don't like to argue, you don't like to face. And that is why I say in this Parliament that they have not allowed us to debate the Budgets Act, which should have already taken it to Parliament, the bill; they have not allowed us to have a general policy debate – why? , because you do not like to dialogue, Mr Puigdemont - ; they have not allowed us to make commissions. Look, I'm going to comment on an anecdote. The other day we were in a tent in Cornellà and we were approached by a very older man who had seen that there was a tent of a party there; I don't think I would know which party we were. He approached us to ask that when all this was going to end already, that all day long they were talking on TV of independence; that he had been waiting for five months to be put on a pacemaker; that what he wanted was to be called to see when he was going to intervene to put on the pacemaker. Do you know what happened, Mr. Puigdemont? That I could have told you that the Parliament's Health Commission has not met since last July because the chairman of this committee is a Member of the Republican Left who has not had the decency to want to convene the Health Commission since July. [[Greetings.]] But I didn't tell him, because I fell for the shame of having to explain to him that in the Parliament of Catalonia he has been without talking about health in the committee since July because you are very worried, very worried about the monotheme. I..., I was ashamed of myself, and that is what I have to the only parliamentary group that has a public health doctor in the Health Committee, and that we have had motions for resolutions for a very long time, and that we are the opposition group that we have put forward most social proposals. I don't even want to imagine what would happen to me if I were in your place, Mr. Puigdemont. It seems to me that the social situation is very serious. I don't know if you're aware... I hope you're not aware of what you're causing in Catalan society, because it would be even more serious if you did it on conscience. But you don't want to talk about anything other than the monotheme, not the monotheme you've been living on for years – years. They won't let us talk, they won't let us work on other issues. And they have nothing more to offer the Catalans than to talk about this. Victimism. Today we are doing a full one that could be titled victimism. How do we manage? No, no, What are the mistakes that you have also made? No, no, How can we rectify this situation? How can we try to find a solution among all? Because, President Puigdemont, we are still in time to find a solution. But that, you don't care. You want conflict, victimism, cheating, trickery, theater. But, I tell you, that does not build a future of a society. Because victimism can give many things, but never – never – can give a victory strategy, a winning strategy. Today we are doing a full on something you wanted, gentlemen of the Republican Left. You are delighted with Article 155. I literally read what Mr.Tardà said in 2012: "L'aplicación del 155 ens anria de conya. Why? For thus victimism, which is of the only thing you feed yourselves, would evidently grow. We have put a very clear condition, and it is giving the Catalans the voice, giving the Catalans the opportunity to choose, again, a new government, with new majorities and a new project for Catalonia. We sincerely believe that this is the only way out: the elections. And we'd love for you to summon them, President Puigdemont. But, if I tell you the truth again, I have no hope that you will return to legality, acknowledge that you have been wrong – nothing happens in life by recognizing that you have been wrong, even when you have been wrong as long and as seriously as you –..., and call autonomous elections. But he's not going to do it; because before thinking about Catalonia and Catalans, he's thinking..., well, either in his home or in his party – his political home, I mean – in his project, his idea. But that's not thinking about Catalans. You have divided Catalan society into two and you will manage to defraud, lie and anger the two halves. And that's going to have a lot of merit, but it's going to be very dangerous. I tell you, Mr Puigdemont, we need ballot boxes in Catalonia to solve this. We need election ballots. But with guarantees, not those ballot boxes that you put in and that you can vote three or four times. And we are still in time to do so, but you, unfortunately, will again be the same Mr Puigdemont who does not want to dialogue and will again be the same Mr Puigdemont who does not want to take advantage of the opportunities. Never has a government of the Generalitat done as much damage to Catalonia as you have done to it. In the economic sphere, it seems to me that there is no discussion, no matter how much negationism you try to sell in Catalan media: more than a thousand_five hundred companies have left in recent weeks; the creation of companies in Catalonia has dropped by 34_per_cent in September, and the invested capital is down by 70_per_cent; the declines in tourism..., in the data of the great tour operators, have dropped dramatically, as is not remembered in a month of September. We can continue to talk about the loss of opportunities, but for me the most serious thing is the social fracture and the bill that this is going to have for Catalan society, because those are less tangible, but the clashes between family members, friends and coworkers that you have generated is going to take years to reverse. But perhaps you don't care, because when you talk about « the people of Catalonia you only talk about a part of the people of Catalonia, which also – also – suffers the economic consequences of their policies, by the way. There are many civil servants who start asking for transfers to the rest of Spain, especially from state bodies. There are so many people – so many people – who cannot reconcile sleep, Mr Puigdemont. I don't know if it happens to you – I don't know if it happens to you –; if they stop you on the street and explain to you how many people are very worried about what's going on in Catalonia. You're stealing sleep, tranquility and happiness from millions of Catalans. And he will deny it, because he will come out here and deny it... You have denied the reality; Mr. Junqueras said the other day that nothing happened because only 1_per_cent of the companies have left, as if the corner kiosk were the same« the Box. "It's okay, you will continue in your negationism. But it seems to me sincere that every time they convince fewer people – every time they convince fewer people. And on an international level, what to say to them? They don't have a single international support, despite everything that poor Mr. Romeva has worked for, and despite everything we've put the Catalans out of our pocket, huh? To pay you for the international party. They have not obtained any international support. Doesn't that... doesn't that make them think? Doesn't it give them what to think, that they may be wrong, President Puigdemont? That all feelings..., ideologies are legitimate, all projects are valid in democracy, they fit in a plural democracy like ours, but maybe you're wrong. Didn't you think so, Mr. Puigdemont? Do you not hear the clamor of the last few weeks in Catalonia so that you do not take Catalonia to an abyss, so that you try to find a reasonable way out? And I tell you more, Mr Puigdemont, returning to legality and calling elections in Catalonia was a worthy exit, it was a worthy exit for you, it was a democratic exit, it was a clean exit. And you let her through. I insist: he still has a few hours left to do so, but we have little hope that he will be able to react. You ran for election... well, by the way, you didn't lead any elections; so, when Mr. Corominas said "a government elected by the ballot box, yes, well, but the president not much, because he was number three by Girona, if I remember correctly, or four, I don't remember. But I think it's time to have a president who has voted Catalans, who does show up to lead an electoral list. I think it is also time in Catalonia that we return to normality as well. I am not saying that you are not a legitimately elected president of this Parliament, but you did not stand as a candidate for an electoral list; you were chosen digitally, i.e. finger-to-hand, by President Mas. Catalonia will not be independent, Mr Puigdemont, but it will be less rich thanks to you; Catalonia will not be independent, but it will be less open thanks to your policies; Catalonia will not be independent, but it will be less secure thanks to your madness, and Catalonia will not be independent, but it will be less cohesive thanks to the social fracture that you have generated. I say to you: Catalan society is facing in the coming years very important problems and challenges to which you do not know how to react. We have job insecurity; we have pollution, which is not even known how it will be managed, and we have worked hard on these issues in the Territorial Commission; we have the longest dependency list in Spain after the Canary Islands; we have waiting lists in health that could make anyone who is working on public health red, Mr Puigdemont; we have one of the lowest births in the world, which makes us wonder how we are going to sustain our social system. But you don't care about these problems. Or worse, they say: "No, the blame for everything is on the bats, the Andalusians, the Galicians... because... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Yeah, yeah, that's his project, yeah. Your solution...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.7.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.8.0	... its magic solution is to tell the Catalans that, if we stop living in the same country with the bats and the Madridns, we will be able to solve all these situations and all these problems. Yeah. The inequality between men and women: man, if we get out of the way of the Onubenses, surely we get it. Yeah, man. Innovation in universities and technology transfer, which is the Achilles heel of innovation in Catalonia: man, if we separate from the Valencians, where it will stop, it will go like a shot, that of technology transfer. The epidemic of childhood obesity: man, if we stop living in the same country with the Galicians, surely – sure – that improves. It seems comic– it seems comic–, and it is, but its project is so comic, its future project is to offer that the solution to everything is to stop being Spanish and stop living with the rest of Spain in the same project. And, of course, get out of the European Union: that where a government will stop the tools it has to fight all these challenges outside the European Union..., that inside. Or security with international jihadist terrorism: man, outside the European Union and outside Spain, surely we are more protected to fight against a global, real threat, in which the whole of Europe and the whole Western world is immersed. Well, in reality, everyone where terrorism is suffered, where terrorist attacks are suffered. The only option, really, is to change them in government. And I tell you more: you come here with a false unanimity that you don't have. You are trying here to sell us a motorcycle that this is the only thing you could do, that in this is the whole united government and the whole united parliamentary group, and let me say that it is not. And you may be the first to know. Therefore, it does not sell unanimity, because it does not even have unanimity in its Government and in its parliamentary group. How will there not be – how will there not be – a social fracture on the street if you do not even have cohesion within your own Government and your own parliamentary group to declare independence or to continue in this nonsense without having a dignified, democratic way out, which is to call autonomous elections in Catalonia and give the Catalans a voice? But, yes, these elections have to be called with guarantees, they have to be called according to the applicable rules, not one that you approve at night, here, with night and light; an electoral law like the one that is in force in Catalonia, which is one that you like very much to apply, because you already know that it gives you a parliamentary overrepresentation that you do not have in votes on the street afterwards. The elections, Mr Puigdemont, I do not know whether you will call them or have to call them from the Spanish Constitution; but I tell you that the ballot boxes will arrive, whether you like them or not. The ballot boxes, to which you are very afraid, because you do not dare perhaps to put the, which are the guaranteed ballot boxes, the ballot boxes in which you do not know the result before it occurs, the ballot boxes with a genuine, independent electoral board, and not that you name here at two tomorrow, those ballot boxes give you very much fear – very fear. And I say to him already: if we had an electoral law with which the citizens of Hospitalet or Cornellà had the same weight as the citizens of other peoples of Catalonia, I no longer tell him the fear that the elections would give them in Catalonia, I do not tell him the fear that they would give them, the elections. [[Greetings.]] You have nothing more to offer to the Catalans, not even to the people you legitimately bet on independence, Mr Puigdemont. And I have told you many times: we respect all Catalans, we respect all political choices... By the way, I would like to know – I don't know if you will speak today or tomorrow – what you think you are starting to declare people not grateful for your ideas in Catalonia, Mr Puigdemont. How do you feel about this? [[Voice remorse and applause.]] What do you think? I'll give you an example. I would love, I don't know if now in Parliament or tomorrow at a press conference, that you would say what it seems to you that your councillors, of your party, in Llavaneres, Mr Puigdemont, the councillors of your parties in Llavaneres and the councillors of Mr Junqueras, who bet so much on dialogue. [[Funnel veils]] And they're so peaceful...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.9.0	Quiet, and please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.10.0	...and they're so peaceful... don't get nervous, Mr. Romeva...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.11.0	...shut up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.12.0	...don't get nervous. It's just that I want the President to answer me, even with a gesture: is it okay for his councillors in Llavaneres to declare me a person who is not grateful for how I think? Is that okay with you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Hey? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.13.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.14.0	Is that okay with you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.15.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.16.0	Is that the Catalonia you want to build, Mr. Puigdemont, in which your councillors...? I don't tell you about other parties, I don't even tell you what your government partners are doing now: their councillors have declared us a person who is not grateful for our ideas. Not because I said anything wrong about Llavaneres or because I did nothing wrong with Llavaneres: because I think the way I think. Do you know what that means, Mr. Puigdemont? They're not declaring me a non-grateful person: they're declaring a non-grateful person to 730,000 people who voted for us in the elections. [[Greetings.]] If it does not suit you, if it does not suit you that in this Catalonia open to dialogue is declared, your party declares people not grateful for their ideologies, it has a magnificent opportunity to come out here and say: "Look, I do not agree. I do not agree with what my councillors are doing in Llavaneres, and we will take action. But do you know what's going on, Mr. Puigdemont? That you're not gonna do that either. Because it's already good for you to be declared a non-grateful person. Do you know what happened in Llavaneres? That the second political force – the second political force – in the autonomic elections was Citizens. What message do you think you send to citizenship? That those who voted for Citizens, what? : that they are less citizens of Llavaneres? What is behind all this? If it's not okay with you, say it. That's the Catalonia you're building, the Catalonia of nationalism. But luckily, we'll be able to give you an alternative with ballot boxes. We'll be able to give you an alternative with ballot boxes. Don't be afraid to put the ballot boxes on, Mr. Puigdemont. President, put the ballot box: the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the ballot box, the These ballot boxes seem to me to make you a lot, a lot for. And I honestly believe that we are going to get a new Catalonia, a new stage. Your stage in Catalonia is over, the process is over, and the worst part is that you're not going to stop it. The process will end because it will end itself, not because you have had the courage, the intelligence and the dignity to stop it. I insist: you are still in time, Mr Puigdemont; you are still in time to call elections, to return to legality, to acknowledge that you have been wrong and to comply with the judgments of the courts. He's still in time, but he's probably not going to. Why? Well, because they have nothing else to offer. Victimism is never a winning strategy. We're going to get a new Catalonia, and we're going to get it by winning at the polls. Because I don't know if you will put the ballot boxes, I think not, but sooner or later the ballot boxes will arrive in Catalonia, the ballot boxes of the elections. And I'm telling you one thing: we're going to win – we're going to win – because there's a social majority in Catalonia that's worried, sick of the process, tired of it, angry with everything that's going on, seeing how you're charging yourself with Catalonia's autonomy. President, no one has ever jeopardized Catalonia's autonomy like you, no one. No one has ever respected the opposition of this Parliament as much as you have done to the lawyers of the Chamber, to the Statute of Autonomy, to the Council of State Guarantees, to judicial decisions or to anything. If you do not come or submit yourself to the control sessions. What little respect you have for Parliament! We want a president who is not afraid to face up and have parliamentary debates, who is not afraid. [[Greetings.]] We will open a new political stage in Catalonia, but this time without corruption, this time without 3 percent. By the way, of the calls for appearances that we have asked Mr Puigdemont, most of them relate to that issue that you never want to talk about, which is corruption. Well, in that new Catalonia for all that will come out of the ballot box, I hope that you will not continue to rule and I hope that you can fight corruption once and for all. We're going to make sure that in that new Catalonia they don't split everything between a hundred families very close to power. We're going to get companies to want to go back to this Catalonia, not to have to run away scared when they see Vice President Junqueras' policies. We want a Catalonia where no one is declared unthankful for their ideas. Mr Puigdemont, I do not want you to be declared a non-grateful person, neither you nor any of your Members, nor any of your Councillors, in any people in Catalonia or in any people in Spain. I want you to go freely anywhere, like Catalans you are. And you don't want that for those of us who represent a majority of Catalans. That's the image and that's the idea you have of your Catalonia. Ours is everything that counts. Ours is a Catalonia where friends, family members, coworkers, once again shake hands and leave the tension that you have, unbearable, and the social fracture that you have caused with all this. We want a Catalonia where education beats quality records and children are not taught what to think, but to think. We want media that respect all Catalans, that respect the political plurality of Catalonia, that reflect the political plurality of Catalonia. In short, we want a government that has a project for all, a project for the future, a project that talks about employment, innovation, business, social services, health, infrastructure, how we fight all these challenges that I told you before. Catalonia has always been an admired land, I have told you many times. I have lived Catalonia from the outside and from the inside, and I tell you that Catalonia is going to be an admired land again. But that's why we have to change government. And we're gonna kick them out of the government with the ballot boxes, Mr. Puigdemont. [[Greetings.]] I hope you put them on – I hope you put them on. If you do not put them, of course, we will demand ballot boxes with guarantees, ballot boxes where you can vote quietly, with serenity, with security, with social peace; ballot boxes with an impartial electoral board; ballot boxes that allow us to win the future again for Catalonia. And in these seconds that I have left, I'll tell you that Catalonia is going to come out of this one. And I turn directly to all the Catalans who are fed up with the process: we are going to get out of this, we are going to be united again all the Catalans, we are going to be admired again in the rest of Spain, we are going to be news again at international level not because of the decisions of the last hour, whether or not the president of the Generalitat declares independence, but because of the great economic, social, business and innovation projects that are going to be present again in Catalonia, and we are going to get the companies back to Catalonia, not because they have to flee thanks to the policies of our wonderful economic advisor. We're going to get this and we're going to get it without you and, above all, despite you. Thank you very much. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr. Miquel Iceta, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.18.0	Thank you, Mrs. Forcadell. Mr. President, today you have doubted, and perhaps still doubted, and I want to congratulate you on the courage to doubt. Only you can make a transcendent decision, and you have to calibrate, and only you can do it, which is the best option. You have the key to finishing the legislature in a certain way that preserves self-government institutions that are all of you. You have to think if ending this legislature with a declaration of independence in the current circumstances would not be highly harmful to Catalonia. You have to think if deactivating 155 is the best it can do. And, therefore, I would like to recognize his courage to doubt, to doubt between conviction and responsibility, between the comfort of supporters and the best defense of everyone's interests. I am aware, or believe I am, of the loneliness, uncertainty and pressures of all that is painted. And that's precisely why I want to do this recognition before I start an intervention that at some point may be hard but I wouldn't want it in case it was unfair. As we can't tell at all, this could be the last Ple of the legislature, and so before entering the matter I wanted to make some comments on the balance of the government pocket. And, I'm sorry, President, with a hand in the heart, from our point of view and from the utmost respect, but this legislature has been a total and absolute disaster. They're starting badly. The candidate for the presidency went to the fourth place on the Barcelona list. The CUP, then, refused to invest him as president, and had the whole right to do so. And then you, in the second option, became president, feel the third of the list for Girona. They said that the elections were plebiscite, but very few of you – in fact I only remember one – they liked to admit that they had lost the plebiscite in the terms that you yourself had planted it. And, lost the plebiscite, maintaining the object they had proposed was impossible. In refusing to accept that they did not have enough support to do what they had undertaken to do, they made the mistake that marked the legislature. And with these beginnings the fracture was predictable. We have today, I believe, Mr President, a more divided society, an affluent economy and a more internationalized country. All folded because of a legitimate but wrong objective, and a strategy, from our opinion, also wrong. Object and strategy contained in that resolution of 9 November 2015, which was already annulled by the Constitutional Court, in one of the many failed episodes of the legislature. What starts so badly is impossible to end well. We have finished naming state structures as instruments of administration and government, thinking that a more solemn name might give the most prominence. We've celebrated so many historic days that we've never lost count. And that's where they are. I'm sorry: right now we're falling to the cliffs. Not to know, you do not know whether or not you have declared independence, whether you will do it today or tomorrow, whether you will do it voting or singing, to the hemisphere or to the audience, whether you will do it properly or only seem to do it. We know that they have the text prepared, clean and polite, and even signed for seventy-two members of the chamber, but believe me, Mr. President, at least in our opinion, like all that you have done in this legislature, grabbing with clamps, press and currents, poorly thought, worse executed and badly finished. They seem to have forgotten the ancient slogan that "wrong work has no future, and they have also forgotten that well done work has no frontiers, because you are obsessed with creating a new one, a frontier, in a grave error. As far as government is concerned, it has assumed no innovation or no tangible development. Perhaps it will be, and we hope so, the guaranteed income of citizenship, but not much more. The process has absorbed time and energy, has squandered resources, and has not advanced any And the country and all of us, Mr. President, look like we're exhausted. As long as we liked to read the foreign press speaking well about Catalonia, and now we're turning our eyes so that we don't have to read editorials from Le Monde or the Wall Street Journal that embarrass us, that it's two of the last ones I've read that I didn't really like to read. And I know that some of you must already be thinking that I'm going to have to recreate that you don't criticise the PP, but it's that our country won't get any better if we're not able to do our own consciousness test first. The sins of the PP – and in Xavier García Albiol will forgive me – as everyone knows, they do not have God's forgiveness. [[Rialles.]] But we must focus on what is our responsibility, not making the game of always drifting responsibilities to third parties, always painful, always evil, who are the ones who explain the bad news when they arrive. We have a great country, but we have, Mr President, a fish government, and this is paid for. A pessim government that was wrong in the sort of priorities, that was unable to correct errors that resulted from all the obvious, that looked for the rock of trains, until it found it, failing to obtain better and concrete results that so much could benefit the citizenry. President, I ask you to complete at least one of the electoral promises. They said they'd just be split up; they've already been through with the crease. So call the elections and let the citizens of Catalonia, if they want to, they can sort out another route and another team. But, certainly, today we have come to talk about the possible application of Article 155 of the Constitution, that article which must allow an autonomous community to be forced to return to legality when consciously or unconsciously violated it. And for what you do to our case, from our point of view, Mr President, getting out of the law has been a premeditated act. In fact, the statement, the resolution of November 9, 2015 was so stated. And today you want us to talk about the consequences of this article, but it seems to me that they want us to forget the causes, and I don't think I will. You know, you need to know perfectly why the risk exists today that applies from tomorrow to Article 155. The origin is no more than the approval on the 6th and 7th of September of the Law of Self-Determination Referendum and the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic. Two laws passed by the press and the currents, violating the Rules of the Chamber, climbing the right of opposition, liquidated the Statute of Autonomy, failing the Constitution and disobeying the Constitutional Court. The House has been told that today we all seem to be listening to each other because they have given a very critical opinion on the content of the concrete proposal for the implementation of Article 155 that the People's Party Government has made so long as the Senate authorizes it. But I would've liked it if I'd ever heard of the casts in that plethora of sad memory. They are still facilitated to access the 155 report, so they were still difficult to know the criteria of the letters about the abuse that you perpetrated. They also wanted to know the court of the Catalonian State Guarantee Board on the two laws. They're all going to want us all to know the criteria of the Board of State Guarantees on the application of 155. But it is that the Council of Guarantees, before this violation that I am denouncing, of the Rules of the Chamber, and before the overthrow of the rights of the opposition, advised us of the way to appeal to the Constitutional Court. Certainly, the Greuges Synod has also done so in response to a written question about this question that we have addressed to him. I would never have thought that my rights as a deputy would be better defended by a state institution than by the same Catalan institutions. You have approved two laws that you perfectly know were escaping from the competences of this Parliament. And, of course, they liquidated the Statute with seventy-two votes when to reform it in a proper manner. That it's also the way they have to escape a great truth, and it's that the problem is not just with the Spanish government, the problem is between us, the Catalans, because there is not enough agreement between us to face great reforms and still less, from my point of view, independence. These two laws have, logically, been suspended for the Constitutional Court, and the first of them definitively annulled; the other will also be voided, as you know perfectly well. In this judgment on the Referendum Law, the court strongly expresses three types of problems: substantive, jurisdictional and procedural. It is obvious that the law that intended to employ a referendum of self-determination was timely against the very substance of the Constitution, no more or less than against its second article. It is obvious that an autonomous, autonomous parliament cannot regulate a reference, as we already knew from previous rulings of the Constitutional Court, and even the Council of State Guarantees had told us with the approval of the assumptions of encany. It is obvious that in order to achieve its objective, procedures will be badly missed. A counselor liked to say, "It didn't do very well. And you said on one occasion, "We had no other way of doing it. Well, I think sincerity, in this case, can't be denied. But despite the fact that the Law of the Referendum had been suspended, you wanted to organize the day of '1 October. A day that in no case was the actual reference, linking and with guarantees to which you – and you, in the first person – had committed. Even his international guests, that's what they said. What can't be, can't be, and more is impossible. It was an addicted day of origin – legally addicted, I understand – and hampered by the action of the powers of the State that tried to prevent its celebration. In this sense we wanted to regret and condemn disproportionate police actions against people in order to prevent them from participating in that voting act. And after you wanted to end the day of '1 October a presumptive democratic mandate that would enable you to declare independence and open a process, without international recognition and without support. Miri, it wasn't cool, no. They can't do it, no. But, from my point of view, the reason why they can't do what they're trying to do is that they don't have a majority of the company that says so. You can look at the results of the 9 November 2014 consultation and see how they voted« yes, yes, they add 1,861,753 people, you can see how the voters of Junts for the Yes and the CUP added to the September 2015 elections are 1,966,508 people, or as according to the data provided for you the voters of the « yes of the 1 of October are 2,020,144 people. There are many and, as I have always said, we respect them absolutely one by one and all together, but they are not the majority. The electoral census for the 2015 elections was 5,510,853, the "yes to independence not up to 50_per_cent". A minority, however numerous, cannot impose itself on the majority, and more so in the case of a decision that it would require, in the opinion of many and also in my opinion, a large majority, because of the great transcendence that the decision has and because of its irreversible character. When you make your roads full of joy and joy, you promise us all, whether you are independent or not, you will almost find the land: a republic, a new country. When someone told them that banks and big companies would be forced to leave, you would raise the cry to the cell and say we made the speech of por. If I may, President, let Saint Lúcia keep his eyes open, and if possible the increases, why what a disaster: the two banks, six of the seven Catalan companies that contribute to the IBEX and more than 1,300 more companies. The vice president tells us that we don't skate, that in the end and in the end there are many more left and that these may return. Miri, who do you want to fool? We are talking about many companies, but in concrete terms about the forty largest, which have gone away. They charge EUR 65,000_million, which represents 30_percent of Catalan GDP. And, therefore, I ask you: I have not minimized, I do not insult the intelligence of Catalans. Certainly, their social partners have changed, but not activity and occupation. But we do know that after moving your social network, many can end up moving your prosecutor and getting more out of your business. Any political leader knows that he must have real activity at the place where he has his social, and that Hisenda especially watches this aspect. And the process in this case is known: first change its social, after the high direction, after the central services and who knows what else. In short, the best places of work, the best paid and those taking the strategic decisions. We know that other similar countries have been irreversible, as shown by the example of the companies with them in Montreal that went to Toronto and did not return. Quebec is not independent, but it has lost economics, and therefore bad news that harms the joint of the people of Quebec. Look, it's not a good way to reduce our fiscal deficit on the basis of impoverishing our economy. Therefore, I am cordially saying this, but with firmness: it is better for me to leave this government than for companies to leave. They also told us that the world was looking at us and expecting us, but once the process was radicalised and accelerated we were able to observe how the European institutions and the governments of the European countries disagreed with strong unilateral and illegal moves, all the while considering that Europe's progress needs more integration and not disintegration, more connection and no more disconnection and still less a precedent. They also told us that the process ensured coexistence and that the reference he wanted to organize was the maximum guarantee. You yourself, Mr President, have made public reflections on the need to maintain coexistence and avoid social fracture, and they are reflections that we share in the cent_per_cent. But unfortunately, President, today we cannot deny the division and the left – I do not like to say "fracture", I do not like to say "break", because you seem to be referring to an irreversible thing – but a social wound is difficult to heal. A friend of mine, sneezing, said to me: "One of the great successes of independence is that we have never seen so many Spanish flags in Barcelona. In fi, take 'hocom..., literally. But it is true that polarization processes end up raising differences and end up producing these lefts that can then have consequences that no one says they want. Reality can be coughed up, but it's reality. The design of a world without gravity is possible, but in our world the law of gravity is inevitable. You want us to talk about the consequences of Article 155, but you want to get rid of its causes. And neither does it seem – and it seems – that they are willing to talk about how to prevent the approval, on the part of the Senate, of the authorization requested for the Government of the State. You, President, didn't have to be here – that I understand well, physically, I mean, you're going to have another place, huh? No, I don't... I know that sometimes... No, I think this House wouldn't have to celebrate today and maybe not tomorrow, President. We would have liked to see 'wash' – even, to accompany him, if anything – to the Senate. Since the first debate of the legislature, on 9 November 2015, we have warned them about the risks of putting Catalan institutions outside the law. We usually remember that institutions are all of us; Catalonia is all of us and the Generality is all of us. And that's why we think you should go to the Senate to defend the institutions of self-government and also, if that were the case – that we would like it to be so – to ask for and offer a political dialogue. I'll be able to say we're five years old without a dialog and maybe, this time around, this wasn't the most propitious moment, and I wouldn't have arguments to beat him, president, if you tell me that. But that is not enough, from our point of view, to take away his responsibility as President of the Government of Catalonia. As Lincoln said, he said: "Even though you are likely to lose the battle, it does not have to deter you from gathering a cause that you believe is just. And, of course, President, remember that I asked you for a letter that you received from the chairmen of the parliamentary groups before answering the request made to you by the Government of Spain after requesting the authorization of the Senate to apply Article 155. I did it because I thought you had an obligation to share with us information and criteria on such a transcendental issue. The Presidency of the Generality is an institution itself and must ensure the political and institutional representation of the city council. And, therefore, I believed that before answering that request you were obliged to know our respective opinions. You can tell me, President, that as long as I knew them, I couldn't beat them either. The final decision, anyway, was his, I never discussed it. But on a subject that put our institutions of self-government, our economic model and coexistence at risk, it was worth it that you consulted with us, but you decided not to do it. The request did not seem, in principle, so difficult to answer. It was perhaps difficult to read, but not to answer. It was an attempt to say in writing, in the clearest and most comprehensive way possible, whether you or the Government or Parliament had declared independence at the session of October 10th. I remember clearly that debate, it was an interesting debate, surprising from some point of view. I read the transcripts and even went to see the transcript of the session, which did not escape any detail. He didn't agree there. Therefore, no one can say that the Parliament of Catalonia, neither the Government nor its President have declared independence, neither that day nor the days that they followed, nor in their appearance with the motion of '1 October, nor in their appearance of the past day, nor in that which he made this late. I know someone will tell me "who are you to say what the president said or didn't say? , but express my opinion. And I think, in this case, it's not all anecdotal, because that's what we're talking about. For the reasons that follow, you avoided answering clearly, and in the second letter you had the sincerity to say 'no independence was voted, but you can pass at any time. I think that so much sincerity can honor you from a personal point of view, but from a political point of view, it was an absolute disaster. Because taken for others, perhaps not with their eyes or their mindset, they heard that there was a threat on the table that they could not bear. Paper can handle everything, but people can't. As, therefore, under this circumstance, does Article 155 not apply? Because you on your cards also did what is legitimate as political position, but the other side – let's not talk like that – considered it very different. You deduced a democratic mandate from a reference that the other gang and I consider illegal, convoked in agreement with a law that had been suspended for the Constitutional Court and that, I say, no one in the world has endorsed. What do you mean, in this circumstance, that the Government of Spain does not ask for the application of Article 155? But you still have the opportunity to avoid applying this article. I can do at least two things, and I'm sure many more than I can imagine; one: to call the elections to the Parliament of Catalonia, according to the law in force; among other things, because if you call the elections to the Parliament, according to the law in force, as all your predecessors have done – even the whole past, which spoke of plebiscite elections, but called them in accordance with the law in force – I would be making it clear, passively, that you do not consider that the forecasts of the suspicious Law of Legal Transition are valid. Why? Because the electoral process would be supervised by the Electoral Board and not by the Electoral Union collected in the Transitional Law. Therefore, you, indirectly, would be demonstrating that the Catalan institutions are kept in legality. The second option, from my point of view, is more interesting. You could have gone to the Senate to say everything you have for good, and, moreover, add two elements, obviously if you share them; the first: reiterate that independence, while it is its political legitimate objective, has not been declared or proclaimed. It might add that you and the presiding government are willing to start a political dialogue to solve the problem that we have between hands, without a hint of apprehension. Under these conditions it is very likely that the Senate will agree not to effectively put the 155 mechanism into effect for the benefit of the political dialogue. You can tell me, and I am not in a position to deny it: "We have no guarantee. The Socialists have already said that we would support this possibility, and, at the very least, we have presented a message in this sense. A point which says: "The entry into force of the measures provided for in the agreement of the Council of Ministers and approved by the Senate shall be suspended if the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia, before their entry into force, makes use of the powers conferred on him by Article 66 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia to order the early dissolution of the Parliament and for the convening of autonomous elections to be held in accordance with Article 56 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, in Transitional provision IV of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, 1979 – here it must have been wrong, or perhaps not –" and the rules corresponding to the Organic Law of the General Electoral Regime and the other legal provisions of application. So, if this was approved and you wanted it, you still have enough to decide the call. It's his decision. Obviously, if you open the policy dialog it may not heat up or approve this item or the legal text. And if the political dialogue opened, it wouldn't have any sense that you had to apply 155, nor would your government, back and forth, be able to move on to independence. Now I'm gonna do a pirouette, maybe, and you'll forgive me, I think, for the relationship we have. I said, "You could have gone. And why don't we rectify the verbal time? You can still go to the Senate, you can go tomorrow. I'm telling you, I know it's hard, I know that maybe after I gave him the praise of the duet right now, I'm inviting him to... to a very clever episode. But I..., if you decided to go there I would accompany you – I would accompany you. [[Greetings.]] I'd go along with him knowing that I probably wouldn't like his speech. Sure – sure. I don't know if we'd go all the way to the New Plant Decree, so far... but I do know that in the speech I would find some elements of discrepancy or many. But if you wanted to go to the Senate to ask and sincerely offer political dialogue, you would find it at your side. I know we're always at the last minute. We are always not here, we are always here: "Not now, an hour or half an hour, to see if that call, that letter, that gesture... so much good has come! But I can't give up, and I don't think you can, until now. [[Greetings.]] You have a relationship with the Constitutional Court, we would say, in conflict. But, listen to me, 155 serves to restore legality, to restore the State, to recover the normal functioning of the institutions... This requires you to say that there are two laws that this Parliament approved but that are not in force. But, listen'm, it's not so hard to bring it to the Constitutional Court either. If you do it often. For example, I remembered that I had summoned a ple on October 9 with an enunciation. Our group, trying to win one day, which we have achieved, we have appealed, the Constitutional Court has told you this House with this wording cannot be done, and you have accepted it. He did the Ple on the 10th with another enunciation. Well, you've also made cases when a parliamentary group in the Senate called on the Constitutional Court and gave them the right. Therefore, you and the Constitutional Court say: "If they give us reason, well. Sometimes we don't have a wife, but we do. Why don't you do it this time? You have the custom of appealing to the Constitutional Court when you consider that the powers of the Generality are violated. And they're on their right and they do well to do it. In fact, I've looked at the statistics and half the resources of the autonomous communities... half are correspondents to the Government of Catalonia. Therefore, escorti'm, the Constitutional Court is the Constitutional Court. They are twelve children of their father and mother, different ideas, two Catalans, a proposal, proposed for Convergence and Union... I say because the total, absolute, general, eternal disqualification of the Constitutional Court has not very much felt. Certainly, whenever it has made since the year 2013 resolutions on Catalonia has made it unanimously. The Board of State Guarantees unanimously said that the laws approved on the 6th and 7th days should never have been adopted. Therefore, if you, your government or the parliamentary majority in which you are supported no longer accept constitutional and statutory legality the application of 155 is inevitable. We can give it, all folds, the turns we want, but the mechanisms..., the constitutions have this kind of mechanism when some autonomous community skips the law. This is the case of constitutions such as Austria, Germany, Portugal, Switzerland, Italy and the United States. I don't want to go into the detail of the authorization that's being demanded. Time will come, and that will end in the Constitutional, which does not always give the right to one of the parties. Don't make me remind you of LOAPA, for example, where we were precisely able to benefit from a figure that doesn't exist now, which is the expected appeal. But here we are in front of a very different case than the other, the only one before the application of Article 155. The Autonomous Community of Canàries wanted not to apply European legislation, the Government of Spain required it, and finally, because of the dialogue, they resolved it. We're not here before a point violation. Here we are in front of a decision that objectively and deliberately places the Catalan institutions outside the statutory and constitutional framework. Therefore, either we respect the law in force or not, and, if we respect it, and let us respect it, we cannot apply 155; if we do not respect it, there is no other way and its application is inevitable. It's over, Mr. President. Avoiding the application of Article 155 is in your hands and can count on us to do so. Going to the Senate to ask for and give a dialog or calling elections to Parliament – tomorrow still has time – in application of the statutory legality and the LOREG. And I end up with a quote from John Kenneth Galbraith – because I thought I didn't quote you today – who said: "Even though everything else goes wrong, we can always ensure that we are immortal, making some spectacular mistake. I hope no one made a spectacular mistake that we would pay all Catalans and Catalans. President, you have the power to summon and make it possible to preserve the institutions of self-government. Please, do it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.19.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The words "Mr. Lluís Rabell", on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.20.0	Thank you, President. President, honourable Members and Members... well, I think everyone is aware of the extreme gravity of the moment we live. For the first time..., or in the most significant and clear way since the self-government of Catalonia has existed for forty years, the institutions of the Generality are clearly in danger. It weighs on them the threat of State intervention which would suppose their de facto suspension if Article 155 were applied in the terms established for the Council of Ministers of the Spanish Government. It is imperative, therefore, we think, in fidelity to the people of Catalonia, to do everything – all that – you are in our hands to avoid this end of your institutions. And from this point of view, today, President, you have a huge responsibility. And we are also aware of the difficulty that this entails, and we have witnessed, at the length of the day, the various pressures that have been exerted on you, but this only causes you to underline the abst and the importance of what is at stake; and we are all responsible for that. Look, we also think it's not a good thing that you didn't take advantage of the opportunity to defend the Generality that you preside over to the Senate. All the battle camps are necessary, and we think that the policy of empty falls is always a very bad policy. We have talked many times about the gene of this crisis, we have not talked enough about this chamber, and about the responsibility of the cable, it is certain, that it belongs to the Spanish right and, concretely, to the Rajoy governments, deaf to the demands of the Catalan society. But at these times, at these peak moments, you still have some important resources to try to avoid an institutional collision of harmful consequences. And it's true... that you spoke to us today at the hearing, the dissatisfaction of the response, the reaction of the government in the last few hours, of the Spanish government in the last few hours. So much so that we ask him, President, that he does not fail, that he makes use of all the resources and possibilities he still has to avoid catastrophe. We know that, beyond the uplifting statements of some and others, the communication has never been interrupted between Rajoy's execution and his government, the government that you preside over, and I should like to thank those who have made intermediaries who have tried to weave bridges and contact possibilities. Because for Catalonia the suspension of autonomy was disastrous, the Spanish government also ignores, for its band, the enormous difficulties and risks of conflict and weakness that it would assume to start the way, until now unexplored, of 155. There is, therefore, a reasonable interest, and we would say 'a need, to establish, if not, a darkness, to stop machines, to give still an opportunity to the dialog despite the difficulties and the accumulated hardships, and we do not deny them the ones you have exposed this late, President. Who are these conditions, these needs, these possibilities? Call in early autonomic elections without delay? Suspend without ambiguity any unilateral declaration of independence? You know, sense of doubt, better than us who are the movements we should be doing to try to deactivate the 155th threat. President, we ask you to make them, make these moves. We think that you have the political and moral obligation, in the same way that we continue to ask all those who have intervened and who have facilitated these contact bridges, dialogs, which have not just worked, who do not fail in their mediation effort and also force the other band to try to restore and find the sign to avoid this found to what I meant. We cannot guarantee, of course, that the Spanish Government will be able to react positively to these gestures of distension, that it will be able to finally and truly, sincerely, also for its own band, to engage in dialogue. We are not guarantors of the loyalty of the Spanish Government, but we are guarantors of our loyalty. It supports us, we can say with pride, a long history of fighting the left and of popular Catalanism in defense of the freedoms and national rights of Catalonia. That is why we tell him that, if he makes the necessary moves to preserve self-government today, he will have all of us on his side and without wanting to speak on behalf of others, I would like to say that the sincere and courageous search for dialogue would have the support of all the progressive forces of this chamber and of the country, as we are all aware of the hardship and the enormous problem that would entail the suspension of autonomy. You would have the support of the working movement and of the venous movement, of the world of culture, of the youth, of the feminist collectivities, of professional and business associations, of civil society entities, in a word, of representatives of a cross-cutting active social majority, which these days have been defending democracy and have been, in effect, demanding the freedom of the Jordans on the road, which aspires in a very wide way to be able to express itself, also in a referendum and which is now calling for them, is asking them to dialogue, which they negotiate until the end, that they do not believe the last opportunities that remain, that they do not embrace the absism of an insoluble conflict. But this social majority to which I refer, which is more necessary than ever, will not have it, years against it, the dynamite if they come along on the way of a unilateral declaration of independence. I know that we have always been strongly opposed, because you have neither legitimacy nor the social majority, nor the recognition to take this step. October 1 was called, and we have said it many times, after violating the Statute of Catalonia and the democracy of this chamber. And, despite the scale of the citizen mobilization of that day and all the admirable civic and exemplary attitude ahead of the police violence that suffered, they do not go away, to our eyes, with a democratic mandate to proclaim an independence from Catalonia. From this point of view, we formally and clearly answer the major of his thesis: there is no democratic mandate of October 1 to proclaim the independence of Catalonia. No one will recognize it this way, not here, not in the Spanish State, not at international level. Not even the representatives of the international observers who came to endorse this thesis. To pretend it, to pretend to be in this way supposed to crystallize a dangerous fissure – it has also been mentioned –, a crack of trets every time more identity that has gone out profiling itself in the Catalan society and that constitutes, in our eyes, a great perill. But it is that, moreover, in the current circumstances a DUI that would be purely rhetorical, without legal effects or possibility to implement itself, would inevitably behave the inn in March of 155, beginning sense dubte, as announced by the same government of Rajoy, for the dismissal of the Government of the Generality, the inn under control of this Parliament and, most likely, would accompany criminal actions. We insist, therefore, on the call for responsibility. We can give up this adventure, we can give up this irreversible step that breaks the bridges and breaks the chances of getting the situation back on track. Catalonia does not need any more martyrs, President; we already have two people unjustly engaged and the work we will have to do to get them there. Don't keep us warmer – don't keep warmer. This is, to say the least, the most important decision of his term of office. We ask him to have the courage to hate the witchcraft that is working him out of the precipice and today we have heard them roar, today you have felt like a traitor to people who are part of his parliamentary majority and this is very serious. I think and weight my words; I don't think we need epic but logically, rationally, without an uncertain policy. These sectors that today cry out and ask to pull for the right, they have evidently weighed and weighed heavily in their government and in the majority of parliament that supports them, but they are not Catalonia – they are not Catalonia. They only represent the feeling on the one hand, and you are the president of all Catalonia, of the independenceists and of the non-independenceists, of those who went to vote the first of October and of those who, a week later, were massively manifested, also, against independence. Not the avoqui, not the avoqui, president, to a civil conflict. You don't, as I said a few days ago, Antoni Puigverd in an article, that we should go to sleep dreaming of Scotland and wake up to Ulster. Follow the president of the majority who, from one position to another, claims dialog. It is at times decided for the country, as in this, in which I have to ask it, aware of the difficulty, fully aware of the difficulty and these terrible pressures that weigh on you, which fully assume its institutional role. Do what you have to do to stop the game, respond to the growing anxiety of the city. We will do our duty to defend self-government. No, I repeat, no one has the right to bet the common good of self-government on a particular or party game, no one has that right. Institutions do not belong to any party or parliamentary majority, and this cannot be played with. President, a convinced federalist and a left-wing activist is speaking to him who addresses the heart and consciousness of an independentist like you. The self-government has been, for us, a democratic conquest of our people and is in danger, and we tell them that, who cannot defend the acquired rights, will never be able to absolve us. A cycle is over, President, and that I think weighs in the environment. The path of unilaterality has proved uncompromising. Today, a runaway heading forward as representing a DUI outside the worst serve that could be done to Catalonia and, first of all, to its popular classes, the first to see their conditions of life worsened by the blockades and conflicts that would lead to the suspension of autonomy. The policy of how worse, better, that seems to triumph in its surroundings, only represents an impotent radicality, the illusion that, as the confrontation may be, the more it will mobilize people and the more sympathies it will attract to the cause. But it's a disastrous illusion. We must stop what is at stake to measure this error. We are not just before a conflict between two governments, we are immersed in the major crisis in the state that Spain has known since the years of democratic transition, the worst. All the consensus on which cohabitation has been sustained in the last four decades has been broken. Social consensuss with austerity policies, with the cessation of sovereignty in favour of financial markets that represented the reform of Article 135 of the Constitution; institutional consensuss with the disbelief of policy as a result of corruption and, combining with all these factors and the migration of an absolut economic crisis, the explosion of the territorial crisis that today rises to its highest point. It is true that the ruling of the Constitutional Court in 2010 opened a left in the Constitutional Pact to escape a statute granted between two parliaments and referendums. If you applied 155 in the devastating terms announced for Rajoy, it would be nullified to what made possible the transition and the mass support of the Catalan society to the Constitution, that is, the restoration of the Generality. As a friend of the conflict, we see the crown abandoning its role of institutional arbiter and becoming a bell·ligante force. The monarchy, it is true, has always represented the preeminence of some elites, heretics of the past, who have retained great power and limited the advances of democracy. These elites, before the challenges of the social and territorial order, as before the tensions of a new phase of globalization, now believe the time has come to redefine and close their domain. If they do, therefore, we could say, constitutive time, time of uncertainty. The future is in dispute and the fate of Spain will be resolved in the next few years. Or a new democratic and progressive stage, capable of encapsulating and articulating the national diversity of Iberian peoples or of a centralistic and authoritarian involvement. And one way or another, the fate of Catalonia as a nation will be resolved and is indissoluble from this dispute. We are, therefore, ahead of a crisis in Spain and a crisis of a very clear European projection, and the references celebrated these last days in northern Italy remind us of this. That's why it's so senseless to want to get out rushing an institutional shock with the support of less than half of Catalan society. We do not need, as the goddess, epic, but a strategy of vast majority in favour of the advent of self-government, beginning with its preservation and complicity, in Spain and all of Europe. From this perspective, we are not convinced, it will be decided what they are doing in this crisis, in these very hours, at least, a force like the socialists, like the PSOE and for this reason we want to address a fraternal cry: there is no progressive constitutional reform that can come from the hand of 155, all the contrary, its application would prefigure the reactionary fate to the territorial and social crisis, the armoring of its power, with which the right dreams. The facility – on these days we have seen – with which the PP brandishes the threat of 155 to speak of Euskadi, Navarre and even of the autonomous government of Castella - the Manxa, so it proves. Therefore, we insist on our cry; here neither must we fail, here that the possibility of pressure and demand on the PP because it keeps the possibility of the dialog open must be complete and must suppose an effort that we demand and that we ask the socialists fraternally. We remember them – that's why we insist on this firmness – that just at the last few hours, the same debate about the agreement with Ciutadan and the People's Party on 155, we haven't just known much about whether it was about calling for quick elections or not, whether to intervene or not, whether to stop 155 from changing elections or not. I mean, the Socialists, and Mr. Iceta has made themselves clear. The PP seems to have the most dubious interpretations of these agreements, which proves that they must continue to demand, that they must continue to be pressed and that they must remember, when certain pacts or negotiations are made, that old proverbs which said that when you went to the devil's house, you should carry a spoon with your hand well wide, because the negotiations with the PP are certainly not easy. But no one said this was supposed to be easy. In any case, it is a question of staying tight and still demanding. If ever drawn from the application of the announced 155, it would not only suppress democratic freedoms, starting with the right of representation of this Parliament, but would be anything less than a placid renewal operation of the autonomic machinery. The antecedents and the end of 155, the police performance of October 1, the enterprises and the ongoing judicial cases, all wish for a growing number of conflicts. And these days, masters, bombers, movers, journalists, have already expressed their rebuff to the intervention of the State. Even before the announced measures are implemented, the bureaucratic control that already operates, of the finances of the Generality, is dramatically undermining, at these times, third-sector enterprises and social entities that hold thousands of people in poor or excluded situations. It is essential, therefore, as we say, that all democratic forces find themselves in a clear reshuffle of 155, but also in the demand of responsibility to the Government and its President. It would take a thought and change course before the evidence of a fractus. Europe, of course, was shocked by the images of '1 October, but it will not recognise any unilateral declaration. A European public opinion referent like Le Monde was this same week, calling it demagogic, the claim to equip the current Spain, despite democratic deficits and reprehensible actions, with the Franco dictatorship. These simplifications do not help or build major ones. There is no European Union falling in love with the cause of independence, nor has there been a low cost secession. And let me make a parentheses, and it seems to me obliged, addressing Mr. Junqueras: the runaway of businesses is not proof, too, it has been said here, but let me tell him that it seems scandalous to me his way of minimizing the harmful effects of this exodus on economic activity and occupation. He tells us that "if it's true that many companies are leaving, there are many more that are left. Considering, Mr. Junqueras, that the entities that have started the transfer represent 30_percent of the Catalan GDP, well we can say that this is going to be as if you told us: "I have been cut off from the femoral, but the rest of the circulatory system is in perfect condition. And I'm telling you this because you're today and today's day the slowest defender to pull for the right. If you show the same responsibility in the management of the economy as in the management of the country's hints, let's go quickly. President, let us say this again: there is no mandate from the first October, which was the mobilization of only one part of the Catalan society, but at this moment we think that it is not to give emotional responses to the politics of the PP or to the bunkerization of the PP, nor to the criticism that we sometimes feel, also from Madrid, on behalf of Mr Rivera, encouraging: "Come, som-hi, forward, also for them. It is not a question of galvanizing a part of society, already convinced of the idea of independence, and still less, of abrogating the condition of a people, disqualifying as not Catalan or non-democratic everything that is outside the scope of official independence. They didn't do it, too, a little bit, a little bit. It's time, as we say, to design a strategy of majorities and complicity. If we stand firm against a DUI, it is because, for the most part, we need to conjure up the peril of an irreversible fracture of our society. And this is the first condition to be able to effectively defend self-government; more still: it is the condition to be able to build democratic decision scenes in which the people of Catalonia can actually pronounce on their future, that is, that they can get a signed and recognized referendum. We think that the Table for Democracy, this example of backsliding and collaboration of such diverse entities, has been able to promote such successful mobilizations as the 3rd of October holiday or the demonstration of disbanded past in solidarity with the presidents of Ómnium and the ANC, which, in fact, became the first great citizen protest against 155. This seems to me to be one of the most appropriate expressions, one of the best models to build from civil society the cross-section that we need at these times. And in the political and institutional sphere, from the parliaments, from the assemblies, it is important to continue to lay down those requirements that facilitate broad consensus of the diversity of sensitivities that are represented there, to position itself against the measures of 155, to fill its negative effects in the life of the population, to maintain the pressure in defense of Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, to demand the withdrawal of police forces displaced in Catalonia, to insist one and a thousand times on the need to open effective negotiating lives. In fact, the resolution that we are proposing tomorrow to the House goes precisely this way. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] And I'm done. They were also in the sense of opening up transitable lives to make the right to decide in the new time constitute that the current state crisis has put on the agenda. The 155 announced for the PP already hovers like an open path to arbitrariness and general authoritarianism. In a word: we oppose the adoption and deployment of Article 155, but, at the same time, we say that Catalan institutions and freedoms cannot be defended from unilaterality. DUI cannot be the answer to 155; it is, on the contrary, the search for unity and social cohesion; it is the search for dialog scenes. President, we insist, do what you're doing today in your hands to preserve self-government. This is his first deure as President of the Generality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next comes Mr. Albano Fachin, also from the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, because they have divided the time between Mr. Rabell and Mr. Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.22.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've come to talk about 155. He looks like he sees 155. And I want to ask you a question: does anyone in this room, in this country, in the government of the state, really think that this will be solved by anything? Do you really believe that applying an article of the Constitution will dissipate the reality that exists outside this Parliament? In this country – and we know that – demoscopia tells us that there are 80_percent of the people of this country who understand that the best way to solve things is to debate and vote. [[Greetings.]] Are you really expecting to solve something? What didn't you want to solve re? Because, of course, we have to say, and we've said it here many times, we've criticized the Full Route of Together for Yes many times; we've said that this sort of splits and that it would be very easy... today we see that it's not easy. And we said it, and they told us everything to put this on the table. We'll find each other today. And, besides, we find ourselves with a debate that we don't know exactly where it's going to end up. We've heard the president appear briefly, we don't know what he's going to vote on, but with what the president said I did ask me some questions; and I want to see..., even though he's with the head, if he can say yes... You explained: "I was willing to call elections if it's third at 155– I understood that. And they told him to take the 155 king from the king. If that's what I don't know, you explained it to me, I want to ask Mr.Iceta...Clar, Mr.Iceta, I follow him on Twitter, and I've seen that for days he says, "If you call the elections, there won't be 155. At the end of two minutes Pablo Casado went out and said: "Even though they call elections, there are 155. And, of course, now you're here and you're telling us, "No, no, but it's that 155 is around the 7th and 8th. Nor did I like it, on the 7th and 8th; now let us agree! You could not have said, before the announcement that elections are called, the Spanish Socialist Workers Party could not have said to Rajoy: "You know what? If you don't listen to the proposal they're making, we're making a motion of censure and we're out of government Rajoy? That it was for him who was to come, for him who was to come the secretary general of his party! [[Greetings and remorse.]] And you say – and you say – that society is broken. But if you're patient with the fracturers of society! You are patient with Citizens and the People's Party! What fracture are you talking about, Mr. Iceta? [[Greetings.]] What fracture are you talking about? Said Ms. Arrimadas: "The president is stealing people's dreams. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.23.0	Silence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.24.0	Listen, Mrs. Arrimadas...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.25.0	...quiet, and please. I can go on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.26.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, on the 1st of October, who was robbed of an eye is a city that was trying to vote and they gave him a pilot's shot at using weapons that this Parliament banned. [[Greetings.]] That, that's stealing, Mrs. Tops. I don't sleep either, and I'm sure we're all worried about this country. But he paid attention, because what is happening, what happened in this country, the rape – the rape – against the people in this country we saw on October 1st by people uniformed and armed against people without weapons and in a peaceful attitude. [[Greetings.]] It's not worth it! - It's not worth it! And escort: division? Frustration? All of life – all of life – at my house as well as at least, which is a family where there are people who think differently, we have discussed, much. And we have sometimes shouted, because we discuss politics, because we don't get to discuss politics. Do you know where people don't divide and don't face and have no problems with politics? In the countries where it is said that ‘do not get involved in politics, better quiet, do not talk about things, do not look at the problems of society in the face. [[Greetings.]] And you want to make 80 percent of the population disappear. I'm not an independentist. [[remorse of the voice]] But do you really believe that two million people are going to disappear because you say you're applying an article? It's not gonna happen. You're irresponsible. [[Greetings.]] Said Ms. Arrimadas: "Lord President, do not listen to the cry. Whose cry? From a king who hasn't been sorted by anyone? Whose cry? Of the benches? Whose cry? From the communication media, from the IBEX companies? Listen, there's 80 percent of people who want to vote; a lot of these people that we want to vote don't want an independent Catalonia. But is your political-state project really so low that you have so much to subdue 'the citizen's will? [[Greetings.]] Actually this Spanish that you defend..., you didn't have the courage to look at the people of Catalonia in the face and say to them: "Is there a possible Spanish? You don't want to, because you know that this Spain of yours doesn't please anyone, Catalonia or the rest of the state. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because, look, Mr.Iceta – Mr.Iceta... Mr.Iceta was talking about "Ostres, the businesses of IBEX are coming, how terrible! - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Obviously, no one likes this kind of trouble. Mr. Iceta, I remember seeing on television who his secretary general is today saying in a first-time interview that IBEX 35 had blackmailed him – his secretary general. His secretary general said that IBEX 35 had pushed him because it was not possible for him to be a progressive alternative. To this lord, who is said Pedro Sánchez, who at the interview of Jordi Évole said: "Pisa and Telefónica prevented me from talking with Podemos, therefore, it seems that another shot prevents him from talking with anyone who does not follow those of Ciutadans and the People's Party. Mr. Iceta, what are we staying at? Are we betraying Rajoy, or are we talking about IBEX? Ask Mr. Pedro Sánchez why, now, he cares about IBEX. Ask him there. [[Greetings and remorse.]] I'm done. 155...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.27.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.28.0	...the 155th. TV3 in the hands of the government that carries Spanish Television, which is the shame of Europe? That the same editors, the same Spanish Radio Television workers are saying that this is shameful, they are showing us! They make reports under the heading of statements of Catalan politicians changing what they say, where they store... That is, we have public television from all over the world that can't believe the lies and manipulation of Spanish Television. Doesn't it make them a little bit of shame, not even a little bit? Now Mr. Albiol will be out. Look, whatever you say, you have the same credibility as the Spanish Radio TV news. And I don't say it: your workers say it, Mr Albiol. Yes, you don't do that – you don't do that – because you want to rule, you and your party want to rule this country without going through the polls. And that's not gonna happen. [[Greetings.]] Everyone knows this – I finish this –, everyone knows this: our horitzo, and we have said it here many times, it is not the independence of Catalonia. And everyone knows that. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And everyone knows, and we've said it many times, that we understand that this idea of the DUI, and we've said it many times before, hardly – hardly – can bring us somewhere desirable. But, well, let's see what this parliamentary majority tells us. Now, looks like 155 is going to be a reality. So, you have to be very clear. On October 1st and October 3rd, despite the fact that you wanted to make four independenceists believe that, that day, there were people who wanted to vote, and there were people who wanted to vote that they didn't. And, despite the fact that you spoke of division, there were people who went with a Republican flag, and there were people who went with a Bourbon flag, and no one gave him anything; and he voted. So, you have to hear – and if you don't understand it, you will see – that in this country, beyond independence and not independence, there are democrats and people who want to impose their opinion, their beliefs, without consulting, as you have always done. So, look, these democrats – among whom I lean, and that the day I can vote I will vote that we are not – we are the majority. And if you're really so clear that we're not the majority, why don't you make a reference? Why not fire? While you do not make this reference, there is a given: that 80_percent of the people of Catalonia want to decide democratically. If you want to keep giving the scale to this, I am, all folded, irresponsible. Why the Reality [[remorse of the voice]] – the reality – will not change either by imposition, or by fucking shots, or by engaging people, or by threatening. People don't have you anymore. We'll see each other on the street, before they chase us, the ones who hit us and those who think the franchise isn't over yet. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.29.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. The words of Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.30.0	Madam President, members of the Government, President, Members and Deputies... you will understand that I am not going to start my speech, just as Mr Iceta has done, congratulating him, right? It is obvious that I will not be able to congratulate you, because it seems to me that the episode..., and then I will go into detail, but that the episode we have experienced, especially in the last twenty-four hours, a surrealist episode, I think it has perfectly staged what has been, throughout this legislature, over these two years, the activity of the Government of Catalonia; a situation, as I say, absolutely unusual, a surrealist situation. I thought that, until six o'clock in the afternoon, I had seen absolutely everything from a point of view of the realm of surrealism, but today I have discovered and seen an event, facts that, at my stage, at my long stage in politics, I had not been able to contemplate, and it is here that a member of a group who is constantly praised by the government in charge and that his own colleagues ignore him, which puts... [[applause]] , which highlights and gives a graphic image of the level of surrealism at which politics is installed in Catalonia. In the last twenty-four hours, Mr Puigdemont, and I will tell you with all respect, personal respect, but from the absolute political discrepancy, you have shown, and especially throughout this noon, that it is a professional binder, that it is installed in confusion, even I would say in the permanent lie, and that in order to achieve its objectives it does not matter at all to provoke the blast of coexistence in Catalonia, the blast of a society that has been able, for many, many years, I would say that even centuries, to be exemplary for the rest of the land of our country, of Spain, that we were seen with admiration, that we were seen, that we were observed with devotion, and that, at this moment, as I say, you have been able, with your behavior, to provoke that exemplary coexistence for so long. I am surprised, Mr Puigdemont..., I would say that I am indignant, but I am surprised that you, with everything that has happened in the last few days, have not had..., I will no longer tell you the courage, but the respect to come here and, before we speak to the opposition groups, give us your point of view. We are surprised because, I will be honest with you, now, at this moment – as is said in català, on hores d'ara – from the People's Party we are not able to predict what awaits us in the next few hours. I am sure – I am sure – that the vodka in which you are installed is not finished, I am absolutely convinced that political confusion will continue to occur from here to the celebration, the call, even the vote tomorrow on the motions for resolutions. And it would have been grateful for all the Members, but also for the whole of Catalan society and Spanish society, Mr Puigdemont, that you would have explained your point of view to us today. You have, throughout your speech this afternoon and during the last few days, appealed to this alleged lack of will for dialogue on the part of the Government of Spain. I would like to point out to you that, if your concept of dialogue is to constantly plant the institutions that are offering you the opportunity, which offer you the option of being able to explain your project to the whole of Catalan society, but also to the whole of Spanish society, as I say to you, if your concept of dialogue is to give a door to these options, it seems to me that it is evident to what extent we are talking about someone who is dedicated to preaching what he does not believe. Today he announced to us in his appearance that it seems that all the doors are closed. I want to point out to you, Mr Puigdemont, that you have one last chance. And no longer for independence, but for the Catalan men and women as a whole, I ask you to take advantage of it. Mr Puigdemont, live up to the circumstances and tomorrow, at ten o'clock in the morning, attend the plenary session of the Senate, argue, give your reasons and face on behalf of all the citizens of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Give the face on behalf of all the citizens of Catalonia, of those who think like you and also of those who are installed in the absolute discrepancy. The chairman of the Socialist Group also said that he would be delighted to join him. Look, I am also willing to accompany you; what I can assure you, that throughout the journey I will go asking you to return to calm and to re-respect the right of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]] This is something I can guarantee. But, Mr. Puigdemont, you have a chance I think you don't have to miss. And you don't have to miss it because the words that you have transmitted this afternoon, this noon, at five o'clock in the afternoon – because, as you have constantly changed the times of your appearance, in the end, we are even created a bit of confusion – because the words that you have transferred in your appearance from the Palau de la Generalitat I have to say that we are concerned. Mr Puigdemont, Mr President of the Generalitat, when you say that autonomous elections cannot be held with guarantees – that has been your guiding thread – the question we ask ourselves from the People's Party of Catalonia, but also many Catalans and the whole of Spanish, is: Mr Puigdemont, what guarantees are you talking about? Do you guarantee to continue with the process of breaking Catalonia with the rest of Spain? Guarantees that the presidents of the Catalan National Assembly and of Omnium will be released? Are these democratic guarantees? Guarantees that Mr. Mas may be... can lead justice? Or perhaps guarantees that the National Police and the Civil Guard must leave Catalonia in a totally unacceptable manner? [[Greetings.]] Are these the guarantees you want? Is this what it means to you, Mr Puigdemont, that elections cannot be held because there are no guarantees? It really seems very worrying to us. The celebration of this plenary session, which was initially to talk about article 155, an article..., and the application or possible application of that article, I will tell you one thing, it has only one responsible and that responsible collegiate is all of you. That Article 155 will apply tomorrow is your sole responsibility, and it is yours because it is not acceptable that for two years you have systematically devoted yourselves to provoking both the Constitution and the Statute of autonomy. During this plenary session I can assure you that we are not going to accept..., we have not yet heard your argument, either from Junts pel Si or from the CUP, which are the parties, the parliamentary groups that have presented this proposal, but we are not going to accept, we are not going to admit democratic lessons from Members who on September 6 and 7 were dedicated to trampling on the rights of the opposition Members. [[Greetings.]] We are not going to accept any kind of democratic lessons. It is clear that the application of Article 155, ladies and gentlemen, is not a dish of our liking. To the men and women of the People's Party to arrive at this situation is an extreme that does not produce us any kind of satisfaction, unlike Mr Tardà – it was pointed out earlier – the deputy Tardà, of Esquerra Republicana, who said in an interview, and I quote literally, that "using Article 155 to us would leave us alone. He meant Republican Left. Well, I want to tell you that it is an option that we do not consider pleasantly by the People's Party; it is an option that will provoke tension. We are fully aware, but which is in your hands, I again insist, for the second time, that this option should not be implemented. And it does not happen because you, Mr Puigdemont, have the opportunity to move, to express in a very clear way that it puts an end to the process of breaking up Catalonia with the rest of Spain and you agree to direct your thoughts, your ideology or your model of Catalonia through democratic channels, which is what all governments do and what all political parties do in any civilized country and in any country with a minimum democratic tradition. In Catalonia, I would like to recall, we are about to finish a completely atypical legislature, completely abnormal, a legislature where – and the details are not lost – the rights of the opposition have been trampled on, the Constitution has been mistreated, the Statute of autonomy has been violated, the Parliament of Catalonia has been paralysed, the economy of Catalonia has been ruined, coexistence has been broken and, above all, we have been tried to get out of Spain and Europe. Mr Puigdemont, what alternative does the Government of Spain have to regain normalcy in Catalonia? They're leaving very few of them. Unfortunately, the only way to guarantee self-government in Catalonia against a government of the Generalitat that has provoked, as I said, that self-government..., is for the rule of law to act, because it is legitimate to apply article 155 to recover precisely that rule of law. And we are aware, and here it has been pointed out at some point, that it's not going to be easy, that it's going to be complicated, that it's going to possibly generate uncertainty, insecurity..., and, look what I'm going to tell you, we're probably going to get into an unknown dimension; an unknown dimension of which no one here can know under what conditions we're going to get out. Now, between the alternative of not doing anything and you being able to move forward in the process of breaking Catalonia with the rest of Spain in the face of the Government fighting to maintain the self-government of the Generalitat of Catalonia by applying measures that are not going to be easy, the option is very clear: we bet on democracy, we bet on security and we bet that coexistence in Catalonia can continue to act with the normality that not many years ago, until you dedicated yourselves to trampling on that coexistence, in Catalonia had been exemplary. It must, as I say, be applied, unfortunately, if your attitude does not change, Article 155, for the reasons I have pointed out to you, but also, and I want to say this in a very clear way, and especially for those who are devoting themselves to contaminating the meaning or value of that article, it will have to be applied in order to recover democracy and democratic institutions; to recover the economy – the economy – after the march of companies representing 30_per_cent of Catalonia's production, 30_per_cent. I already know that some of the people..., you are not, because they are smart people and they are people read and they have a lot of information, but I know that there may be someone who, from good faith..., who is not as much information as you, the independence majority, can say: "Well, I don't care if I leave a given bank, because I go to the cashier and keep taking money, or if I leave a given multinational does not affect me at all. And it is true; in the short term these decisions are not affecting the whole of Catalan society, the whole of men and women, but do not have the slightest doubt to all of you that these companies that have left and have now moved their registered office, and some also their tax office, will eventually transfer the central services of these companies to their new city, where they have their registered office, in order to eventually transfer the production of them. And this is going to mean more unemployment, this is going to mean misery for Catalonia and this is going to mean poverty. And that unemployment and that misery and that poverty we are not going to live with immediately, we will not see its consequences right now, but do not doubt that, unfortunately, those consequences will be paid by the Catalans as a whole within a short period of time because of that irresponsible attitude. We have been able to hear..., of course, I have to make reference, Mr Puigdemont, to your intervention, as I say to you, in the media, in your appearance a few hours ago, because you have not had the honour to address yourself to who represents the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia, which is this Parliament. And you have again used arguments that are absolutely false. You, Mr Puigdemont, cannot speak on behalf of the whole people of Catalonia, I have told you many times. The people of Catalonia, fortunately, is plural; in the people of Catalonia... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I can't speak on behalf of the people of Catalonia either, nor have I ever dared, because I know that the people of Catalonia, which is what I was trying to tell you, is plural. [[Greetings.]] And in the people of Catalonia there are men and women who are independenceists; there are men and women who, although not believed, are of the People's Party and are not separatists, and are of Citizens, and are of the Socialist Party and are of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. [[Greetings.]] And these citizens whom we represent half of this room have the same dignity and deserve the same respect as the independenceists for whom you govern. And, therefore, I would ask you [[applause]] Mr Puigdemont – I would therefore ask you, Mr Puigdemont – and the members of the government, when speaking on behalf of a people, to think about the plurality and the different sensibilities of them. Well, as I said, Catalonia is a plural land and that plurality is one of our riches, that cultural, social, even historical diversity. Historically, a land of welcome of men and women from all corners of Spain; Catalans of birth, as is my case and that of many of you, and Catalans of adoption, as is also the case of those who today represent in this chamber. And all – those of birth and those of adoption –, very proud; very proud of what we are, of our land, but that most of them or the immense totality of them do not want to renounce their origins. I am talking to you about men and women who came from other parts of Spain; men and women who arrived in Catalonia in the sixties, fifties, early seventies, and who worked for eighteen hours each day to be able to work a future for their families, to be able to pull forward and to build a house or buy a flat or rent a flat and give some studies to their children. I'm talking to you about these people. And on some occasions I have mentioned that I am certainly also an example of that plurality that is Catalonia. I have explained that my mother is Catalan, she is from Badalona, and my father is Andalusian, from a village in Almería called Velez-Blanco. My father, Andalusian, taught me to love and respect the lady, the one we have back there. And my mother taught me to be proud of the Spanish flag – my mother, Catalan. Look, I have pointed out to you that I am the son of Andalusian and this is the flag of my father's birthplace. [[The orator shows the chamber a full with the flag of Andalusia.]] Mr. Puigdemont, do you and your government pretend that when my father wants to go to your people he has to arrive as if he were a foreigner living in another country? [[Greetings.]] Do you think that is acceptable? And like him... and like him, Mr. Puigdemont, the 600,000 Andalusians who live in Catalonia, the 120,000 Castilanoleonese, the 120,000 extremists, the 100,000 Aragonese, the 95,000 castilanomanchegos. To all of them, Mr. Puigdemont, you want to turn them into foreigners in your village. But really, what did you think? What have you thought? [[Greetings.]] Mr Puigdemont, let me be consistent, never, and I repeat, never in Catalonia has a government lied to so many for so long. They said the banks wouldn't leave and they're gone. They said that the companies were not afraid of the process: 1,500 companies have left, I pointed out: it represents 30_per_cent of the total production of Catalonia. Some companies, take note, that the taxes that they will stop paying in Catalonia, because they have left, because they are also moving their tax offices, those taxes that they will stop paying in Catalonia and that they will pay in Valencia, that they will pay in Balearic Islands or that they will pay in Madrid, those millions of euros someone will have to pay here, in Catalonia. And we are very much afraid that it will touch us, the citizens standing because of their irresponsibility. That's why... I want to point out that nationalism has led us to a social fracture and to the worst economic crisis in the past few years, to a decay that was unimaginable now three, four years ago, when we started to emerge from the economic crisis. If you think they're gonna judge the story, you're very wrong. He'll judge you in a court of law, that's who will judge you. [[Some applause.]] The story is quite clear: the irresponsibility of an independent elite is causing Catalans..., is causing Catalans the social, economic and greater crisis of our lives. History has already dictated judgment, Mr Puigdemont: you are guilty; you are guilty of an irresponsibility never seen in Catalan politics and democracy. The story says that you took a look at democracy and that you didn't get out with your goal. I'm sure tomorrow what they're going to want is to end this time in democracy. You have spoken – and your mouth is filled, to speak of it – of democracy and dialogue, but it has been just makeup: your will has never existed, it has never been sincere. Just try to trick some foreign media correspondent. But they already have them well closed: everyone knows that you are already news, that you are the source of absolutely false news and that you have become a danger to the credibility of Europe. They've talked about the dial, but they've always left the chair empty. I myself, Mr Puigdemont, went the past..., came the past Tuesday here, appeared to Parliament in my capacity as a senator to explain, as a senator, what we were doing in that institution, and what is our point of view in accordance with Article 155. In change, you, Mr. Puigdemont, once more, did not want to give your face. He didn't want to go to the Senate. He left the chair empty, as he left it at the Conference of Presidents, at meetings to talk about the financing of Catalonia, when it was offered to go to the Congress of Deputies, when it was offered again to go to the Senate. And it seems that..., "it seems to be, no, it did so today and it seems that it will do so tomorrow as well. Mr Puigdemont, when it comes to debating and seeking solutions to real problems, you always'shuffle' – always'shuffle'. In his party, a congressman like Mr Lluís Llach says that the Catalans we feel are Spanish. And I'm telling you that the Catalans that we also feel Spanish are humble people, people who don't want problems, but people with a lot of dignity and who are sick of the situation that you are causing Catalonia in the last few years. We're done... [[applause]] We're sick and tired of a minority... an independent minority think it's the owner of Catalonia. We're sick of giving us lessons in catalanity, when what they're doing is ruining Catalonia. They're breaking Catalonia, so they're not coming to give lessons right now. This week we remember, we commemorate, the 40th anniversary of President Tarradellas' return in the year 77. Tarradellas, with which one, in some way, could disagree, had a historical vision. Tarradellas warned us that pujolist was the white dictatorship, it was a very dangerous white dictatorship. He said it was a victimism that did not correspond to reality, he said it would make the breakup of the unity of the Catalan people inevitable. Mr Puigdemont, you are the concentrated pujolist: fracture society, false victimism loaded with lies, as we have seen all day, and a democratic rhetoric to hide the imposition of a white dictatorship that seeks to separate and break Catalonia from the rest of Spain. Never, and when I say ‘no one could ever have imagined that an autonomous government would work on its own self-destruction, leading forward to half the Catalans without any kind of look. Mr Puigdemont, we are facing a historic moment; we are facing a decisive moment whose consequences we are going to pay, if no one remedys it, all Catalans, regardless of whether we are independent or constitutionalists. Mr Puigdemont, I no longer ask you to think of yourself, I ask you to think of the thousands of men and women in Catalonia that, from good faith, that from a patriotic sense of feeling deeply Catalan and Spanish in one case, or others of feeling independent, or just Catalan, think of them, think of those men and women, and think of the children of all these people. At this moment, Mr Puigdemont, you are putting at risk not only the present, but the most immediate future of a generation. The responsibility for what happens tomorrow falls on your shoulders. Be, for once in this legislature, up to the circumstances. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr Albiol. Next is the words of Mr Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.32.0	Well, good afternoon, president. President, councillors and councillors, and members of the chamber, say an old Roman aphorism "none unheard to condemn, is to say, no one can be condemned without being previously heard. This is a basic principle of any international belief in human rights, even incorporated into many legal systems that are... they don't have to be democratic. It is such an essential principle, with more than two or three hundred years of history in its own right. And it turns out that this very basic and essential principle does not apply to Members of the Parliament of Catalonia in the application of Article 155. That is to say, the measures you propose, you will approve and apply the Socialist Party, the People's Party and the Citizens' Party limit the powers of this Parliament, and, therefore, the activity of these Members who are taking part in electing the President, to control the Government; they introduce a veto on us on what we can deal with and what we can't. The Spanish executive suspects and decides what the Catalan legislature can do. And, on the other hand, neither this Spanish government, which intervenes in us, nor the Senate, which will approve its measures, have donated to this chamber or to the deputies who make up it the possibility of defending us, the possibility of explaining... to the deputies and deputies they did not give this possibility. And this is an exhibition of the lack of democratic quality of the 78th Regime. We don't have a right to defend ourselves in this collection that's enslaved by..., it's a win for having liked to self-determine ourselves. It's a win that's enslaved for having liked to call a referendum, for having liked to equip us with the instruments necessary to celebrate it, for having liked to defend, with the people of the street, the ballot boxes and their results. And now he's censored; he's censored collectively and he's censored without a right of defence. In fact, it is punished in a worse way: it is punished with physical gains, with harassment, with humiliations of all kinds, at our schools, on October 1st, certainly, many of them with a display of masculinity towards the women who had exercised the right to vote in these schools. If you fail to follow the guide of the 78's, this IBEX 35's, the Felipe Gonzalez, the former Spanish ministers, "the Caixa, the Sabadell, this business conglomerate that has left Catalonia, the European Union of Juncker and Tusk and, ultimately, all those who are not only refractory to independence, Mr Rabell, but are refractory to any process of recovery of sovereignty. That is why, in some ways, this Ple that we celebrate today is, with the will to defend the sovereignty of this chamber, an expression of this same sovereignty, because, despite the fact that you do not want us to self-determine, we are prepared to defend until the last consequences of the republic proclaimed for more than two million people. This is certainly more than the number of voters who endorsed this 2006 Statute, which you now want to forcefully impose on us. And these are the ones who are now punishing us with Article 155 as if we were underage. How you do not like the decision of this Parliament..., and, instead of making a political proposal to the 2-million Catalans and Catalans who have voted independence, the only thing you know how to put on the table is this Article 155. We have listened calmly and attentively to the interventions of the Socialists, of Ciutadan and of the People's Party, and we have no other proposal than, as a result of the '1st of October, to tear down our institutions of self-government. With one exception, it is true: the socialists make us, with a certain paternalism, a proposal: they say they forgive us if we call autonomous elections. And this, a call for autonomous elections less than one day to apply 155, with Jordi Cuixart and Jordi Sànchez in prison, with a complaint written for rebel crime for the state prosecutor's office, leads us to question ourselves: do we really believe that you would respect the outcome of autonomous elections if you returned to win the independence majority? Do we really have to believe this? Why don't you look us in the eye and recognize that what you want, what you plan is precisely an election call with illegal independence and thus manage to rule Catalonia without winning the elections? [[Widow's remorse.]] Because we've read the report of the camera's readers and they're talking about legal aberration and violation of all the principles of proportionality and exceptionality. Look, we've never wanted to put the Chamber's readers in the political debate, and I think that both the diary of sessions and the proceedings of the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau are witnesses of what we have asked and stopped asking at every moment. But, on the other hand, there have been groups in this chamber that have been calling for reports from the Chamber's readers at every decision of the House President, at every intervention of the Independentist Groups. Home, then, perhaps I'd like to ask you for a little coherence and that now you listen to what you are told by the casters of the chamber. [[Widow's remorse.]] And they tell you that what you're doing with Catalonia... – they say so! – that what you're doing with Catalonia...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.33.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.34.0	... it's illegal – it's illegal. But, well, there's been a lot, a lot, of talking about giving your face. The president will already explain, when you consider it, when, how and why they understand you have to give your face. But I do think that socialists, citizens and populars have not given their faces to explain the measures you intend to apply from tomorrow to Catalonia. Why don't you publicly explain which organs you're going to intervene, who you're going to pose, which policies you're going to develop? That would be an act of democratic transparency, and it would not. We've heard people talking about flags, identities, you've put the whole question of nationalism to the maximum, but you haven't talked about a single moment of the measures, of the names, of the policies that you think you're doing. And we have read this article 155. And this 155 Sanchez, Rajoy and Rivera is an authentic weapon of mass destruction against the entire Catalan institutional and judicial system. This is a weapon of massive destruction of truth, which exists and which tomorrow, from the gods of the morning, will apply against an institution that is recovered from the year 77, and we will repeat it all the times you need: beforehand to this Constitution of which you have precisely now to repeal our institutions. Work from the right, but to go far beyond the right; it is done from a logic of exceptionality and even – as has already been said here – of unknown dimension, according to Mr. García Albiol. To us this discourse of exceptionality reminds us – and change of characters – an ancient advisor of Democratic Convergence, who suffered his policies in our own hands when he said that "we will strain the law as much as possible, until we allow the law and a little more. Well, now what 155 proposes to us is one thing, a similar exercise: we don't have limits for matter, we don't have limits for level, we don't have limits for legal nature, there's no control that it's not the same Senate that approves it, and it empowers the central government to do everything practically. I think you deserve an award, Socialist Party, Citizens and People's Party, for having placed to govern Catalonia the party accused of due 1_bilio – with very high – of euros, according to the anti-corruption prosecutor's office, and having no more than 8_percent of votes in relation to representation in this chamber. This is the party he will rule from now on in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And there is no doubt that this 155 has nothing to do with the declaration of independence. Because this 155 does not apply as a reaction to a declaration of independence that the president himself said had not been proclaimed. Article 155 is a victory for the toughest and most reactionary sectors in the Spanish State, for those who are not only in favour of suppressing the civil and political rights of Catalonia, but also of suppressing all civil and political rights. He asked us, in this 155, that phrase of Ovidi Montllor which he said: "There are people who do not like that he is spoken, written or thought of català. It's the same people who don't like it when they talk, write or think. Because what you are putting on the table is not a reaction to the attitude of this Parliament, but it is the will to carry out a poll that has somehow always existed in this democracy of 78, that is to destroy everything that I have to see with Catalonia, its institutions and its decisions. Welcome, therefore, your Spanish, one, large and free, Socialist Party, Ciutadans and Popular Party. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, yes... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] No, no... yes, because we know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.35.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.36.0	...we know that Mr. Iceta himself has been negotiating the content of this Article 155, which he has been meeting with Mariano Rajoy precisely to negotiate it. And that to us suddenly, and we think that somehow it doesn't even fit the progressive, Catalanist role of the Socialist Party or the will to mediate. And this lack of willingness to mediate does not fit in with the speech we heard here today, because we have not heard a single word – nor a single word – for the thousand injured people, for the hundreds of thousands of people who resisted in the electoral colleges from bravery, from por, to defend the right to vote. And this, this action, this climate of media intervention, arrests, web site closures, this is causing an authentic social fracture in Catalonia. Well, we, before that, think that we have to exercise a certain right, somehow, to self-defense, and that the only useful formula for self-defense from this context is precisely the Catalan Republic and the process constitute. We are convinced that, before every measure of Article 155 that you tried to apply Socialists, Citizens and People's Party, this country will place there workers and public workers, proud of the public service they exercise and lend to the citizen to defend it. That, before every police attack when you sent, Socialist Party, People's Party and Citizens, police forces to impose and assault with violence those who want to defend the Catalan institutions, we will place solidarity, support and mutual support against impunity. And why in front of every web page that you've blocked we'll put Julian Assange, Edward Snowden and collective intelligence. [[Widow's remorse.]] Every unrighteous law – every unrighteous law – we disobey.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.37.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.38.0	And I end up with a quote from a poetess companion, Sonia Moll, who was writing these days precisely to La Directa magazine about these facts, right? , and he said to us: "You may need to disobey when orders are lacking, humiliated or violent in the body of others, of others. Perhaps you will understand, you will need, you will feel that you must disobey to obey the will of a people, to prevent attempts to annihilate the inalienable right of all peoples to decide who they want to be. Perhaps you will understand, you know, that whoever obeys orders is not free of responsibility and that cruelty is always, always, an election; neutrality, its most faithful accomplice. I was telling you that maybe one day you'll be disobedient because you'll have already knocked out the glass of the fish, and you won't want the ocean to be an unstoppable dream forever. Because you're going to want to negate the open sea and breathe your whole life, no impositions and no rapes, and it's going to make you for the desert that's in between. You'll breathe for this, you'll make it somewhere inside and you'll keep walking. 155 or no, we will continue to walk towards the Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.39.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Then there's Mr. Albert Botran, who also shared the time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.40.0	Well, thank you, President. President, deputies, deputies, members of the government, for the Chinese, who visquis in interesting times do not know if it is well a proverb or directly a curse. For Catalans, if we look at it from the point of view of our nervous system, this must be a curse, live interesting times. From the political point of view there is a great political experience, because we are living interesting times. In two years and three years the project of the Catalan Republic has grown, is advancing and will finally triumph. The coughing up of the Catalan society towards its self-determination has cleared the regime and its allies: the IBEX 35; the bank; the press, which is owned by the IBEX 35 or the bank; the king bulge, which supposedly had a neutral role; the European Union; the police and his brutality; the franchise of the PP, now without death; Ciutadan, which progressed for the right to a tougher demand; the Spanish left, the one we had hoped for little or no people – the PSOE – and the one we had hoped for something more, at least that would mean the sacking of the Catalan republic with an opportunity to drop the regime, and give them weeks to their own, every now and then. Certainly, the Spanish State is powerful, but not invincible. There are social classes and political sectors that live on and hold on to the privileges of the regime. And any change threatens these privileges, these places of influence. That's why the Basque Nationalist Party is not a good advisor, because it knows that its role in supporting the State and containing Basque independence will be impossible as soon as there is some change in Catalonia's relationship with the State. Moreover, wanting to calm the beast is useless; the Spanish State never comes to its senses, for so much that the sovereignists try to hold positions every time more reasonable. Against the independence process, the State has shown its fiercer face and reminded us that civil and political rights were torn at a time of fever, because the dictator had died and there was a great working and popular movement, but there for some it was circumstantial, that what's worth is the right of conquest, that for that they won a war, they have to think some. That is why, from this face, not all the peoples of the State must be aware, all those who have mentioned each other; also the bats, for example, who know police brutality in the past weeks, and we take advantage to send a hug to which they fight for the burial of the lives of the AVE. I deixi'm, Mr Albiol, you make a cry about citizenship and national identity. When you showed the Andalusian flag... certainly, the flag that was designed for Blas Infante, executed for the franchise, to the cry of "Live Andalucia libre. [[Greetings.]] I don't know if this is causing him a short circuit, but in any case, when he showed this flag, he said that we didn't speak for the Catalan people, and you said: "The 600,000 Andalusians... What do you know about the 600,000 people of Andalusian origin who can feel and want the political project they want for Catalonia? He didn't marry in his mouth! [[Greetings.]] Apart from – apart from – there are already many Catalans who have to teach their passport to go to see the family, which is the example you have set. Or is it that there are no Catalans of Moroccan origin or of Chinese origin or of Roman origin? Why didn't you talk about it? That they might be the ones who wanted to clean up Badalona? [[Greetings.]] To the Catalan Republic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.41.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.42.0	...to the Catalan Republic everyone will have the rights of citizenship, everyone. Because you will never lead to the Catalan Republic, and everyone will have rights of citizenship, if you feel like it, come from where you come, talk about what you're talking about. [[Greetings.]] Our struggle... because our struggle does not only impact on the political map of the Spanish State or Europe. As Manuel de Pedrolo said, we rebel for ourselves and for all those who want a future of free people, starting with the German territories of the Catalan Countries. Our struggle affects the way democracy is heard in European states. What's at stake is not a passport any more; it's at stake whether people's power really exists or not; it's at stake whether the power they make is can open up democraticly and subvert the power they make. And this power, this power that must be created by the Catalan Republic, will also have an impact on the conquest of social rights. The way to fight our people for their self-determination has been a true demonstration of one of the most beautiful slogans of the popular struggles of the last few years: "Yes, it can," it can. Or they didn't tell us in this very hemisphere that we wouldn't do the talking about some spokespersons from parliamentary groups, burletes, who even invented disqualified adjectives, such as now 'nevermen', and in exchange we did it, because when people want they can. [[Greetings.]] And we believe that – we believe that. I'll send them to WhatsApp, which will be more effective. [[Give me the applause.]] Already in plenary on the 10th we talked about the need to hear Catalan independence as a refugee republic. The State's offensive against independence has taken so many rights forward that the Catalan Republic's project presents itself as a refuge from being rebuilt. These days in Catalonia we are experiencing a violation of rights against another, so overwhelmingly that the past makes us forget the past. That is why the Catalan Republic project must be a refuge for everyone sensitive to the foundations of democracy, such as freedom of press and the right to information; the separation of powers; civil rights, and in particular the right to a just trial; the democratization of the bodies and the forces of security; anti-physics; social and linguistic diversity; social rights, or feminism. Rights that will be possible in the Catalan Republic and that, in change, every day is more difficult to imagine that they are possible among the current Spanish Bourbon monarchy. And this rightful regression is not just the application of the 155 that tomorrow will vote in the Senate; it is a regression that has already been given in all the previous weeks, in fact. The regression has come to stay if we don't do anything against it. Or was the ban on referendum campaign acts not regressed? Or wasn't the police assault returned to communication media to coerce them? The use of force against the October 1st people? The arrest of members of the government? Or Jordi Sànchez and Jordi Cuixart? This is the regression that we're already living and that we won't let it triumph. [[Greetings.]] The repression confirms our legitimacy, but the proclamation of the republic does not mean it as a reaction to 155, but as a consequence of the majority expressed in the referendum. It's sovereignty, in survival. Our rights cannot be subject to forgiveness, and less to forgiveness of the pardons of some who come here to the Faristol with certain tones of vision and certain gesticulation. Finally, a very clear placement. Between today and tomorrow no one markets with the popular mandate of '1 October. The skids are dark, but the street is bright. We explain the difficulties to the people but we also explain that they are the only way to win the hopes, the dreams, and make it transparently, admit the government's misdiagnosis respects an idea of national transition that could be made from the law to the law and that in the future it did not foresee the need to build the republic in a repressive context such as the state. To tell the truth but to act with firmness. Only if this Parliament and these Members assume the mandate of '1 October can we look at the faces of the people. A people who are the engine of the process to the republic and that's why we haven't looked at each other today. People who have surprised us and who will surprise us. President Puigdemont, sort out the travel companies; know how to sort between those who have been offered today to go and offer new glories to Spain or the 2_million Catalans and Catalans who put their cos on it on October 1. Tell the truth and act firm. President, members of the Government, deputies of Junts for the Yes, deputies of the CUP, other groups also, basically of the groups that have had the decency to applaud solidly Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart to the principle of the Ple, and to the images I forward. President, Government, Members, let us not fail the people; the people who have mobilised and who will return to it; the people who have put the body there and who will do it again; the people who voted the referendum. We do not fail the sentiment and the longing of the people that October 1st gave their suffrage. Forward. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Then there's the word Mr. Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.44.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Vice President, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament, the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010 on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia of 2006 meant de facto the end of the autonomous regime. It wasn't this legislature, it wasn't October 1st; it was the ruling of the 2010 Constitutional Court. A lot of data backs up this part of this rule. And I'll put two of them in front of the table that I think they're uplifting. The first: July 10, 2010, more than 1 million people, according to the Urban Guard, and among whom people as diverse as Presidents Montilla, Maragall, Pujol, Benach, Rigol or Barrera march against that sentence. And under a clear, clear slogan: "We are a nation. We decide. The second. The second one, closer and bringing us data that are much more subjective: the September 27 elections. The result of the elections, of those elections that held a remembering turnout, was clear: the parties that wanted to maintain the status quo of that autonomous Catalonia obtained only 27_percent of the votes, 26_percent of the votes. The remainder of the votes went to stop political forces who wanted to overcome that situation, in concrete terms a 73_per_cent. Many different ways to overcome it: federalism, confederalism, independence, from the right to decide... But in any case, they wanted to overcome the situation of the status quo, the situation of that autonomous Catalonia that failed in 2010. Specifically, even more, we can say that in those elections the right-wing to decide will get 60_percent of the votes and the right-wing to independence, 48_percent. This post-autonomous situation, from a vital point of view, had the possibility, and I believe that the obligation, to find a project that gives response to the greatest possible extent of the Catalan people. We have not succeeded; we have not succeeded in a much broader and much more transversal project. And I don't think anyone in this room can be happy. And finally, two projects have been imposed; two opposed projects that have formed their own form: a band, the sovereignist, which took place in the referendum of '1 October, and another band, not the autonomous, but a clearly centralist who has found his place in the march of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution. That's what brought us here in the first place today. It is legitimate for some groups to oppose the October 1 referendum. I myself said that that reference created legal doubts and that, moreover, it was not in Junts' electoral program for the Yes. But he had a virtue: he saw and decided on the people of Catalonia. And he had the gathering of those who won the elections, 53_percent of the chamber and 8_percent of the deputies of this chamber. Only 38 percent of the members of this chamber disagreed. We are talking now about the proposal that is on the way to Article 155, in fact, which has brought us here today. It doesn't just create legal doubts, it's clearly illegal. It's more, it's a legal goodyol, they say the same people from this room. But, above all, it is a project that cannot be democratized, at least from the Catalan parameters, since it has the opposition of 61_percent of the deputies of this chamber, representing the vast majority of the Catalan people. Therefore, our most absolute rejection of the application proposal of 155. And, as we have always said, as we will, in favour of the right to decide on the Catalan people and the Orange people, in favour of individual freedoms and collective freedoms, in defence of the Catalan institutions. And always, at all times, in favor of the dialog, a dialog to always get the widest possible project for the Catalan society, but it has to be a dialog from freedom, a dialog from sovereignty, never from vassallage, never from por. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Next is the words of Mr Lluís Corominas, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.46.0	Thank you, President. President, there's a loophole here, from this hemicicle, that says that at the Franco era all the entrances were covered because popular sovereignty is closed. That's not true, it's a fault. In reality what is done is to close – close – the Parliament. The franchise will shut down the Parliament. Now the Council of Ministers, Article 155 of the Constitution, wants us to close our own self-government closing our Government and our Parliament of Catalonia. And this Parliament needs to know, because there are a lot of groups here today who have come to talk less about Article 155. And I'm going to devote a part to it... because it's different if this is democracy or it's a full-fledged piece of work. In any case, and before entering the articles of..., in the contents of the Council of Ministers, there is now a recurring argument of the 6th and 7th of September about the Law of Transition or Law of Referendum. In case you're right, you don't have it, because we tried to make a joint statement; we tried, remember, to do it by one reading, and you, all of this, brought it to the Constitutional..., we tried to vote. You, with 155, what they're doing is they're trying to subdue our institutions. Is that the same? No, obviously not. And, therefore, I recognize that you, giving support to Article 155 what you are doing is a time of state. I will read a part of the agreement of the Council of Ministers : « Measures addressed to the President of the Generality of Catalonia, to the Vice-President and to the Governing Council. The Government of the Nation is hereby authorized to terminate the President of the Government of Catalonia, the Vice-President and the members of the Governing Council of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Are we talking about democracy? A cessation of a government democratically chosen, and they do so through an agreement of the Council of Ministers. "The cessation will involve the replacement... To see in which part of article 155 is it possible to take over the replacement of the Government? "The exercise of these functions shall be the responsibility of the organs and authorities which believe or designate the Government of the nation for that purpose. Don't clarify whether you're a police officer or a military officer, the authority they'll appoint. « The competence of the President of the Generalitat of Catalonia to decree the early dissolution of the Parliament of Catalonia or the end of the legislature and for the convocation also remains treta and therefore, also passes to this organ. And when he talks about Parliament, he's no less. You, who are part of this Parliament – and I am especially addressing the Socialist Members, because then, Mr Iceta, I will refer you to this kind offer of going to accompany Mr Puigdemont, our President, to Madrid –, you will support that « as long as the present measures remain in force and until the constitution of the new Parliament of Catalonia, arising from the elections, the President of Parliament – the President of Parliament – of Catalonia cannot propose candidate for the presidency of the Generalitat nor the Parliament to hold debate and vote on investiture, will you support this? Because now that we have a president and, therefore, this patriarchal term supposes that they have passed so, without seeing it... "The functions of control and the figures regulated in Articles 66 et seq. will not apply. And what is most important – what is most important –, socialists, with this enthusiasm that its leader Pedro Sánchez has given support to these measures: "The Bureau of Parliament will order the referral to the authority designated for this purpose by the Government of the nation so that it manifests, within thirty days, its conformity or not to the processing, whether it includes provisions that are contrary to these measures or to their objective and purpose budget. Initiatives which do not pass through this 30-day veto of the State shall not be put to debate or vote. Therefore, the State assigns itself, to the Government, the function of the Constitutional Court – the function of the Constitutional Court – and, therefore, to what democracy has this been seen? What democracy did you see? Only in the Spanish State. This is a full-blown State. You did not want to speak today of Article 155, neither the PP nor you, nor much less Citizens. In any case, it has already been said, in advance, on behalf of Mr. Iceta, because I already knew that we would say so here, both the Guarantee Board and Parliament's readers say that this is an attempt to the state of law. Mr. Albiol, Mrs. Arrimadas, today there was neither a report from the Guarantee Board nor a report from the House of Commons. Ostres! [[Greetings.]] Why don't they do what they do, on these occasions, what it's like to get up, cry? Cridin now: "The clergy of the chamber have said that this is not true! Why don't they cry? Why don't they make those numbers they get used to when they do these things? [[Widow's remorse.]] Not today, huh? There were no reports. Well, anyway, let's call it off. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.47.0	Quiet and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.48.0	I let them report it. Before I move on to the political side – I'm sorry, Mrs. Arrimadas, but every time you demagogically do, I'll tell you: that of the pacemaker in the Sanitat Commission has been a bit of a pain in the ass. « Mrs. Alba Vergés is patenting for whether she is responsible for putting the pacemaker... But what does she say? What are you going to say to this chamber, here, of a pacemaker? Listen, because there's no commission now, will you accuse the chairman of the commission? Please, man, there's enough demagoguery, there's enough. [[Greetings.]] Just like the demagogue with the rest of Spain's people. You're not the only one who wasn't born here in Catalonia, you're not the only one, and you attribute all the attacks you have on people who weren't born here in Catalonia. You don't do this anymore, it creates hate – it creates hate. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.49.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.50.0	I don't like them declaring anyone unthankful. And less if it's because of his political ideas. Now we've got two political prisoners. [[applause]] Two political prisoners. You didn't applaud. Does it seem good that Mr. Cuixart and Mr. Sánchez are in prison? Does it look good to you? Does it seem to you that seven hundred mayors, for their ideas, are accused? Does that sound good to you, too? [[Greetings.]] Does it seem good to you that when you went to demonstrations, you said that Mr. Puigdemont was going to jail or that the president of the generality died? And you're in those rallies? [[Greetings.]] Have you ever listened to a demonstration, from the sets that have called the ANC and Ómnium, that never goes against anything? Did he listen to me again? Please! [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And a final part, Mrs. Arrimadas, I spoke to Mr. Rivera – I spoke to Mr. Rivera – who yesterday said a very big one – yesterday said a big one –: « I want Spain, the state, to guarantee the outcome of the Catalan elections. All right, all right. [[some applause]] , outside institutions, which is 155, arrested for those who do not think like you, outside communication media, illegalization of parties and, obviously – and obviously – guarantee the results that, even so, they may not win, right? [[Greetings.]] Before going to the final intervention, more political, Mr. Iceta, told him that, obviously, to put the doubt in value, I also put it in value, but we don't cheat. I thank him for the final part of the intervention of the PSC in this afer of 155, the final part, because that of the inici has been equal, very hard, that Ciutadans and that of the People's Party. And now, at the end of the day, say, "If you do well and call for elections and believe and say that you will never come back again, we will do our best because the People's Party does not apply them to 155, I feel it, but it is not worth it. It's not, it's not, Mr. Iceta, and you know it. You know, you say that we have a great country and a fish government, if you make me qualify the PSC paper during this legislature, you can say that we have a fish government and we can't say anything, right? Do you have to shut up? All right. [[Some applause.]] Well, you, Mr. Iceta, say, "I can't give up," you say to the president, "and neither can you, but you have been to the PSOE for some time. You've been to the PSOE for a long time. In any case, know that the PP has already rejected this offer, those guarantees given by Mr Albiol, who did not know which guarantees were, 155. 155, Mr. Albiol, and he said no. In any case, thank the intervention of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, both of Lord Rabell and of Lord Albano. Do you know why, Mr. Iceta? Because when you make numbers about the deputies of this chamber, you cheat. You always count 71, 72, 47.8, etc. Well, when we count those who are on the side of democracy, we're a few more; when we count those who defend our institutions, we're a few more, and so we're over 50 percent, and that's not good anymore, is it? They don't care about that account anymore. Anyway, don't worry, I'll go to the most political part and let them be. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.51.0	Quiet and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.52.0	Today they want to cancel our self-government and say: "What happened today? So, what happened today, who defends our self-government? Who defends Catalonia? Who defends our institutions? Who defends the people from the attacks? Who defends the educational model? Who defends the language? Who defends communication media? This is our cop's defense? Of course, it is regrettable that the major of the Mosso d'Esquadra must go every fifteen days to nowhere and that his passport has been withdrawn and, in change, the corrupt police of the Catalan operation are on the street. [[Greetings.]] I'm sorry. And you're telling us what happened today with the offer... or with the proposal, forgive me, to dissolve the Parliament? What happened today is that we have the conviction, of course, that the People's Party and Citizens, with the complicity of the PSOE, want to hurt. We have the conviction that they want to hurt – that they want to hurt – Mr Albiol; in we have the conviction, they have shown it to us. They've shown us. Calling is a way of protecting, the way you are – calling is a way of protecting, the way you are –; whether or not you can agree, but it is a way of protecting. And today they've shown that they want to hurt. If we attached to Solomon's Biblical similitude, obviously, we would already have the country more than stabbed, but there is no one who is responsible, here, a part that is responsible, that has responsibility. And when I said in the previous speech that I did that I'm proud of my parliamentary group, it's because this morning we cried and we suffered and we didn't have a good time. Because we're doing a policy that involves being patient, that involves being esteemed, that involves being brave to win this for, and that, what happened today, obviously, has taken us away and we've overcome it, and we're here, now, making this Ple. And I prefer this president that, out of responsibility and in some conditions under rape, under threats, with prisoners, with economic intervention, with supervised freedom, with corruption, with police occupation, with 155, I prefer this president that with responsibility, with esteem, with patience, he explained to us what he explained to us this morning to the parliamentary group, that not the free memberships that last five minutes. And I want to put in full value the people of the PDECAT, all the people of the CUP, all the independents who make up this gang here, of the hemicicle, who, until today, have not failed and neither have failed. [[Greetings.]] We offer, once more, the hand this morning, and they have moved our hand again, they have done it again. For all those who ask for so many gestures, from months to weeks to weeks, give, for all those who "now yes, please," now yes, please. "Now yes, please it's another move, it's another move in full rule, and we have dignity and we won't fail the people who brought us here, who make it clear. They want to apply 155 to any price and they will, you did, president, what you did today. I believe that what they want to do is to apply it and prove, because I never pass again, that who controls is who imposes it by force, who imposes it on the police by law. And they won't get it, they want to replace the president and the government, they want a domesticated parliament; with a statement or without a statement, they want to impose a police dictatorship on Catalonia. Our path has always been to negotiate, bilateral state-general dialogue, and always with dignity and humility. In this submission for arms and violence and threats, we will not be found there; the unit of Spain can never, ever, be about democracy and the individual and collective freedoms of the people of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] And look, we're seeing a lot and we're seeing it even more tomorrow. They say that they will put us on the crime of rebellion, therefore, except if Mr Albiol, Mrs Arrimadas and some of the members of this group who are accustomed to making violent uprisings, if we complete this part of the violent uprising, we also complete the criminal type of rebellion, but we do not have the will to make a criminal crime of rebellion, because we are not doing it, we are trying to apply democracy to our country and the Spanish State is preventing it. And you're obsessed with the statement, and we're very obsessed with how much bigger our base we are, building the Catalan Republic, and we excavated it when we offered to vote for our future on October 1st with the referendum; we excavated it when on October 3rd the country rejected the violence because it's a peaceful country. And we'll get rid of it today and tomorrow, with all those – and I also place the PSC – with all those who want to defend our institutions and our people. This is our way of making the statement, and you're not getting it. I'm done. More than ever, they want us engaged, they want us nervous, they want us confronted, they want us frightened. Today, more than ever, calm down. These here, and those up there, above all. More than ever, calm – calm –, we are winning – we are winning. Our proposal is a state independent of all, which is not against anyone. Remember, every step of the way. We want to make this state, too, remember, with them too. [[Greetings.]] A state without hatred, a peaceful state, a democratic state, that looks at its institutions, that everyone looks at its institutions, that looks at its representatives and that does not impose itself, but agrees, read them. Our cause has neither the aggression nor the violence they try to export from the Spanish State. Our cause is and must be for all Catalans. And now I'm done. We ask that this Parliament reject Article 155 for this aggression without precedent to the people of Catalonia, through its institutions. And we want this to be very cross-cutting, and to reflect on all those Members who feel that these institutions are our country. And that our response, today, tomorrow and on the next days, is to complete the mandate of '1 October, realising its effects and initiating the process constitute. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-26-4401.53.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. The debate is over, so as to compliment Article 152 of the Rules of Procedure, I would say that the deadline for submitting motions for resolutions will be two-quarters of eleven in the morning until tomorrow. The qualification for the Bureau and the communication to the parliamentary groups of the motions for resolutions admitted will be three-quarters of eleven in the morning. The deadline for submitting transactional proposals will be a quarter of a dozen in the morning. The qualification for the Bureau and the communication to the parliamentary groups of the compromise proposals will be two-quarters of a dozen in the morning. The deadline for requesting a separate vote on the motions for resolutions will be three-quarters in the morning. And the debate and vote on the motions for resolutions will be tomorrow morning at twelve o'clock. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow at twelve.
