ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Condol demonstration on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Miguel Ángel Blanco]] Before we begin the order of the day, I am sure that the Bureau of Parliament, following a request from the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has decided to make a minute of silence in record of all the victims of terrorism, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the assassination of Miguel Ángel Blanco, that we will proceed to achieve all the following. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] [[Question to the Government on tax policy and data protection]] [[300-00192/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on fiscal policy and data protection presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.2.0	I don't know if it can be. [[Pause.]] Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen, as the first speaker after the minute of silence for the crime against Miguel Ángel Blanco, I hope that in Spain we will never have to live again moments like this because of terrorist barbarism and the oppression of people who believe that, through violence and murder, they can impose their ideals. [[Greetings.]] As for the question that brings us here, I would like to give a little thought to the political opportunity to question the Government at this time, in which we seem to live forever at the end of the parliamentary term. An inquiry will be made to the councillor in which he will basically be asked to have another fiscal policy that better protects those who earn less, to lower the taxes of the IRPF, and we do not know whether this councillor of Economics, finishing the legislature, is being questioned as a councillor, or as a future candidate, or as a politician who struggles to maintain himself is caught up in the contradictions that assault his government and in the dangers of jumping the law. I am sure that Mr Junqueras will be able to avoid the dangers of failing to comply with the law, I am sure that..., by not signing that which compromises him too much, or that which sign, no doubt, then, will not be issues that cause him not to be able to continue to devote himself to politics because he has failed to comply with the law. In any case, I am sure that Mr Junqueras will again be a candidate in an autonomous election, that he will be a candidate for president, and that I do not believe that he will become a president of all Catalans, in a government that has already exhausted them all, for having lied so much to the Catalans and having exhausted their patience. I don't think I'm going to be a president who can implement an IRPF rebate for the next 2018 budgets; I guess, in the end, we'll have to ask this IRPF rebate from a new president, I hope, from Mrs. Arrimadas. But today you are part of this government, and I have to ask you for the IRPF of 2018, that year that you believe you are not going to be an autonomous councillor or president – that's what you say – but I think we are asking within the framework of an autonomous government in which, after these storms pass, the next year will follow life, the sun will come again in an autonomy, in Catalan, in which we will have to look at how we manage economic resources for the good of all Catalans. You know that Citizens have achieved a discount of 2,000_million_of_euro in the 2018 IRPF. The government rectified and the Spaniards, in the end, who are tired – the Spaniards: the Catalans too – who were tired of paying the duck of tax amnesties and of the rescue of the boxes, so they will benefit from this tax reduction, which mainly affects those who earn less than fourteen_thousand euros a year, the mileurist workers, who are – this IRPF that I am talking about, which is achieved, thanks to Citizens, throughout Spain – hundreds of thousands of Catalans, mileurist workers. And now, that we have found again..., that we have finished the income campaign, we know that between fourteen and thirty thousand euros of income, in Catalonia we have the highest tax rate because you have decided: Catalonia is of the autonomous communities where the lowest incomes, up to thirty thousand, pay more IRPF. Almost all of the IRPF's autonomous sections in Catalonia are above the Spanish average. And this is very clearly seen in this graph that I teach you [[the timer shows a full to the camera in which a graph is reproduced]] , in which the color garnet, which is the lowest income, from fourteen to thirty thousand euros, are the highest in the whole State. These are the autonomous communities, this is the autonomous community of Catalonia, and the highest part is precisely in the lowest incomes, fourteen to thirty thousand to thirty thousand euros, which are... According to this table [[the timer shows a full to the camera in which a graph is reproduced]] , which is the last data published, in 2014, on salary structure survey, up to fourteen_thousand_euros are a 25_per_cent of people in Catalonia, who earn them, and between fourteen_thousand_thousand_euros are 75_per_thousand of Catalans, who are earning these incomes, up to thirty_thousand_euros. It is 75_per_cent of Catalans, who are enduring this tax effort that is imposed in Catalonia, which is the highest in all of Spain. And in the meantime, the autonomous percentage that we pay in Catalonia the lowest of the average of autonomy is between 75,000 and two hundred and thousand euros. Here is the only stretch where Catalonia has taxes for its citizens lower than the average of the rest of Spain. This is scandalous, because, while we make the weakest pay more, we relieve the big ones' taxes from the..., well, from the higher wages, between 75,000 and 200_000_euros. I should like to point out that, with these percentages that I give you, we clearly have a comparative aggravation for the rest of the citizens, for those citizens who earn less and who, on the other hand, are forced to pay more. As long as you don't... this question was asked directly to you the other day. You sometimes accuse us that we are always telling you the same thing, but it is that you always have to answer the same thing, that we don't remember very well what you answer, because you never answer what you are asked. To what you are asked and answered with a yes and or a no, you wander and we don't get to draw clear water: are you going to lower taxes, Mr. Junqueras – in case we continue, or do you continue to hold these responsibilities, that in reality budgets have to start preparing them on the return of holidays –, taxes on income from fourteen to thirty thousand euros? Yes or no? Do you want to do that? Yes or no? Do you think that is necessary? Yes or no? You will be able to answer these questions later, in the interpellation; I would only ask you to answer them with yeses or noes. [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History riu.]] You can also move your head from here, and then explain it here, in the Faristol. And then, with regard to the other part of the intervention, which is the tax data of Catalans, look, an Economics advisor must handle tax data seriously. It is not possible for you to be stained by the suspicion that you have already thrown yourself into the Vidal case, that you said you had all of us registered, that you had our tax data, that you said textually: "This is illegal, because it is protected by the database law. It's reserved data, in theory we're not supposed to have access to this process, but sometimes things happen, we won't tell you how, because it's not exactly legal. And this was complemented by the statements of Mr Salvadó, his department and the Republican Left, who explained to us, in those performances that you mount throughout the Catalan geography to say that you are going to disconnect from Catalonia and Spain, said that the Generalitat « is crossing one hundred and thirty sources of information to « have a solvent database to face one minute of independence, and said: « We are building the famous database. As everyone suspects, they will not give it to us on a pen drive, we are trying to do one fundamental thing: levying taxes without the cooperation of the banks, which is complex. In short, it gave all kinds of explanations of how that Catalan Tax Agency, which is another chiringuito that we'll talk about later in the replica, because it costs us a lot of money and we didn't just see the usefulness..., well, it seems that the main objective is to steal data from Catalans to use those for other uses that are not foreseen in the laws, as I hope that you and I will now be able to discuss. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.4.0	Good morning, everybody. Thank you, President; thank you, Member; Members, Members, Councillors... Honestly, let's start saying that he expected, after an intervention so accurate and so detailed, and so brilliant, a more closed and longer ovation on the part of his companions – I found it short. You have devoted the 30, 40_percent of your intervention, to talking about my person and to speculating about what I will do in the future, etc. You leave a reflection, which I do with all good intent – as always, huh? , and I'm sure you've done so, like..., with all your good intentions –: you've tried to go through a lot of different ways to see if you're provoked, and you can't do it. I understand that you have an incentive to provoke: that if you know it, that if you don't know what, that if you don't have any idea about it... but no, it doesn't work. Therefore, I think it would be better to focus on the technical questions that we need to address and not on personal questions. I know a person, compared to this reality and to this chamber, totally irrelevant – totally irrelevant. My vocation in politics is to make, effectively, the independence of Catalonia, a republic. Certainly, yes; and, if not, I wouldn't be devoting myself to politics. So, it's very clear, it's very obvious. We've explained it many times. I'm sure you know that and you have no doubt about this. Now another thought, I think it's useful, huh? Also, it is: you go here to the Faristol and say to me, and ask me: "How do you say it? And I say to him: "Oriol. And you said to me, "But this had already told me another time, that is Oriol." And I say to him: "Yes, but I just asked myself how I say it. So you go out to the cliff and say, "But what's your name? I then say to him: "Oriol. And he said, "But that's what he had already told me! Yes, indeed, but you always ask me the same question. So let's get back to it: you're asking about tax data processing and I'm answering it with a lot of taste. And I don't usually do that, but why do you see that I take it, then, with all seriousness and detail, I read you a little bit of text, huh? , which says thus: "According to the audience of the Apdcat..., and therefore of the authority dealing with data protection, an independent authority, which I know you respect very much and appreciate very much. "In agreement with the audience of the Apdcat, I said, and I have quoted, among comets, "the Tax Agency of Catalonia does not treat identity data or tax character that has been obtained irregularly or illegally. Point. I remind you that this audit was requested by the same Secretary of Hisenda, the Department of the Vice-President and the Department of Economy and History. And I'm not to blame that everyone tells you that you're not right when you speculate about what you'd like us to do but we don't... Listen, those who understand it, the authority competent to respect, make it very clear, and I repeat it: "The Catalonian Tax Agency does not treat identity data or tax characteristics that have been obtained irregularly or illegally. Thus, he adds – the Apdcat, the Data Protection Authority – that "the Catalan Tax Agency uses the data which it has exclusively for the exercise of its functions, and does not treat it for incompatible purposes or functions which it does not have attributed – they point, clear as water, white and bottled: milk –, "according to Article 4.2 of the Organic Law 15/1999, of 13 December, for the protection of personal data, the LOPD. In its report, Apdcat also considers – the data protection agency, because it is clear – that there are some circumstances related to the processing of personal data, and makes a follow-up of recommendations. And I tell you which ones are the recommendations, because you have good knowledge of them and, if another day you want to use them in any kind of inquiry, then you have it at your disposal. It advises us on the part of the tax agency to the state agency of data from households or persons with disabilities in charge, to the effect that it can carry out the corresponding deductions of the IRPF. In this sense, I am already advancing the commitment of the Catalonia Tax Agency: it will sign, with the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families, a treatment charge agreement that will specify which is the function of the tax agency in the treatment of these data that refer to families named or with disabilities in charge. That's what we do, because it's what they say and we dedicate ourselves to this. It's here. According to the recommendation: "The conservation and availability of fiscal data related to the IRPF of fiscal years 13 and 14, and provided voluntarily for citizens during the campaign "Declare 'ta Catalunya ". For what it does to this question, data in information support has already been destroyed. For what it does... you know, given that they volunteered to bring us, huh? And it is recommended to us: "Listen, you do not do them... There it is. For what he does to the information in paper, the director of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, Eduard Vila, has already given the necessary instructions for his cancellation and deletion. And finally, for the management of access passwords to the Gaudí system, they also give us a recommendation. To look to give an answer to this corrective measure that they suggest to us, the tax agency is working to incorporate Gaudí into the corporate identity management system, the GICAR. The forecast is that it's implemented before the end of the year. That's what the data protection agency does to us, and that's what we do. I hope, therefore, that this time it became clear. I'm sure you'll insist on asking me again, because I understand that you don't expect to get some kind of political answer, to always ask the same question. But it's always an opportunity for us, which we always appreciate, the fact of being able to explain it clearly, huh? Therefore, the conclusion on this part of his inquiry is that the impeccable management by the Catalonia Tax Agency of tax data has been more than explicit by the hearing of the Data Protection Authority, eh? For what he does to the other side of his inquiry, on taxation. I'm ready – I've always said that, haven't I? – to study with all of you..., in fact we have done it, we have done it from the department; in fact, many of the studies cited by parliamentary groups are studies that have been done from the same Department of Economy and History, and we have done them with this will to be able to speak. Therefore, you know that in me you will always find a person available to the dialog, as is evident every day. And, therefore, many of these studies show, indeed, that there is a fiscal pressure to make them lower, that it is a high fiscal pressure, certainly. In fact, it's so high that it's only exceeded as a percentage of the income by 10_percent of the higher returns, okay? Therefore, here we have a significant data. It is also true that, to a great extent, this fiscal pressure that affects these lower returns is a fiscal pressure that is derived from indirect taxes. And in this sense I also want to remind you, and it seems to me that it is my obligation to do so, and I hope that you don't get it wrong, that you give support to a government, a government of the PP, that approve of assumptions, of a government of the PP, that what you have done precisely is devote yourself to pushing all the indirect taxes you have done and in order to have – all of them. And you, in this sense, didn't get any change, not one. The major source of tax pressure on these lower returns is indirect taxes, as it goes all over the world. And, therefore, one of the most effective mechanisms to correct it would be not to push these indirect taxes. You've done it, you've donated it for good, you've validated it, you've approved it. And another thought, which seems to me that it's also very uplifting. It is always good that we analyze, study and consider the options that there are around changes in the types of tax – always, okay. It is also true that the main problem that we have, like the economy, is that of tax evasion – and that of tax fraud, but basically that of tax evasion – which is derived from a clearly disproportionate, exaggerated, tax-benefit pool of tax benefits accumulated as a seditious line of allusion to the length of the years for governments to which you give support. And in this sense, they haven't changed... [[Widow's remorse.]] If you don't let him listen to me, then he won't be able to answer me and he'll end up answering what you told him to answer me, but he has nothing to do with what I say, and that's gonna be a monumental garb. Come on, let's all focus. Let's go back to it. Therefore, very willing to study, to talk about it, to consider it. But remind him, first – because I saw that I didn't feel it – that the most important part of this tax pressure affecting the lower returns is indirect taxes. And I suggest you work to change it, you have the opportunity, and to change it before the Spanish government, and I'm sorry you didn't do it. Secondly, the most significant part of the shortcomings of the tax system is, I repeat, in the tax ruling, that it is the consequence of a system, of a combination, of disproportionate tax benefits that has accumulated over the years, that has never been reviewed, but that tax benefits have always been added to us without taking away the old tax benefits, and that it has become the basis of an extraordinary tax ruling; so extraordinary that, having the marginal types of the highest in Europe, we have an effective recovery of the lowest of all around us. Therefore, I also recommend that in this sense you do the same as we have done from the Government of Catalonia, that it is working to reduce these clearly disproportionate tax benefits, and therefore correct the main failure, the main failure, of this tax system, which is tax avoidance and tax fraud. And here too the tax agency has a resume – Catalan, huh? , I mean – brilliant, as you and everyone knows. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.5.0	Thank you, Vice President. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.6.0	The applause to me was proportional to what they did to you, so we don't want to abuse it, huh? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.7.0	Thank you. Mr Junqueras, starting with where you started, which is with data protection: well, you have just told me what the data protection agency has got to do, what the data protection agency has done, but you will understand that, as your correspondents and members of the Economics Council are saying that you are making databases necessary to carry out what you cannot carry out, that you are charging big taxes, that without certain data you cannot do it, that you lack data even to make a census, and that from there, of the data you have, it seems that you may be making that census that you cannot dispose of for something you are promising to do, but that you cannot do it..., you will understand that we do not trust excessively what is visible to the data protection agency, and that we fear, and therefore politically we have to denounce what you are doing, that in your advice you are not respecting the data of all. If you fail to do so, you will certainly not be doing so in the clear. And then, with respect to the tax issue and the IRPF. You have started by admitting this high tax burden, and then diverted the issue by saying that we have failed to lower indirect taxes. Look, with regard to indirect taxes, I can answer that indirect taxes themselves in a tax system are not what determine payment, the tax effort that the middle and lower classes make, that is very clear. That is not indirect taxes, it is the balance between direct and indirect taxes and social contributions: that is what determines the tax burden a country bears. And for the moment, when you start to reduce something, you have to focus on those direct taxes, which are those that affect people according to their income, which is the fairest. So, first, we have already done that in the Government of Spain. I believe that it will be good for you that hundreds of thousands of Catalans now pay less taxes because of what we have managed to take away from the PP government, which we do not govern, but to whom we can, fortunately, impose certain conditions for the political play of the majority. But, I repeat, now we are..., now Citizens in Catalonia are looking at what we are going to do with Catalan taxes, what the Catalan government is going to do. And I've already asked you... You say, "If you ask me a thousand times my name is Oriol, then I'll come out here and tell you Oriol, okay? Well, I'm asking you a thousand times: will the IRPF's taxes go down? A« Oriol does answer me, but to the IRPF it does not answer me. [[Greetings.]] Answer me to whether or not you lower, if you want, you may, it seems convenient to lower taxes to those Catalans who earn less than thirty_ thousand_euros, to 75_per_cent of Catalans, and who are the ones who bear the highest autonomous taxes in all of Spain. It's very easy. And I can ask you a thousand times, and a« Oriol answers me, or he would answer me in his example, but to that he does not answer me, and I am asking you to answer me. Look, I've got a chart here. [[the timer shows a full to the camera in which a graph is reproduced]] : « Contributions payable at the IRPF in Madrid and Catalonia. Those of fourteen_thousandeuros..., set out how in Catalonia we pay all this more than the Madriders: fourteen_thousand, sixteen_thousand, twenty_thousand, and so it goes reducing itself. And in the lower incomes, Catalans pay much more than Madridns, and as they earn more money, they go on to equalize something more that Catalans pay for Madridns. And, look, with regard to the 75,000 to 200_000_euro tranches, which is precisely the tranche of those that, for example, the members of the government are subject to, and many senior officials are subject to, this tax rank, here is the only one in Catalonia that we pay below the Spanish average. Therefore, Mr Junqueras, I ask you not to circumvent this simple question, which is if you want..., if you think you're going to..., if you're going to do it, if you think it's convenient but you can't, if you consider that this high fiscal pressure that Catalans endure is the responsibility of the government to lower the, or if, on the contrary, you believe that things are fine, or there is no way to do anything else and there is no way to charge more to those who win the most and less to those who win the least. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.8.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.9.0	I insist, Mr Carrizosa, that in the data that you explain I do not only agree, but that the origin of these data are the data that we have given to Parliament and we have given to everyone. So, of course, yes, we do know that there is a high fiscal pressure to bring them down, certainly. And I explain to him that a fundamental part of this pressure is a pressure that is derived from indirect taxes, and in particular from VAT, and that this is a competition of the Spanish Government, and that you have the opportunity to change it and you did not want to change it. I also explain to him that the effectiveness of the tax system is seen to be hard to minimize – hard to minimize – for tax avoidance, which is the result of a system, a combination of tax benefits that are totally out of measure and without comparison with Europe. You've had the opportunity to change it, and you didn't want to change it. In the measure that we have been able to change, which is a relatively small measure, because he knows that we are responsible... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sorry, I'm sorry. Now he won't be able to answer me, so he doesn't need what you say. Then you explain it, but then, while I can explain it, because if you don't tell me that I didn't answer it, but I did, the one that happens, that you couldn't hear me because you didn't let me... Let's go back to it. We, in the measure that we have been able to... [[Widow's remorse.]] You let me explain! For God's sake, but what...? You left me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.10.0	It's not a dialect. Please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.11.0	Go, go, let me... let me explain, go. Xxt! [[Pause.]] We're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're-we're... We, in the measure that we have been able to, which is a relatively small measure, because we are responsible for the 5_percent of the fiscal effort made by the citizens of Catalonia, have indeed done this type of thing, we have reduced some of these tax benefits that are clearly disproportionate and that have nothing to do with the economic reality that exists at these times, and therefore we do contribute effectively to reducing the margins for this tax avoidance. And so what I'm suggesting is that you're trying to do with the PP in Madrid the same thing that we're doing here, because here we're doing very well, and you should take note and try to get past it there. And another question: it's often said – it's often said – and you know I don't share it with you, let's just say it, huh? – it seems to me – that you are the white mark of the PP. Now there are some people in Catalonia, especially in the business world, who start saying that you are the white mark of GNP in Catalonia, and that you consolidate in the assumptions of the State the tax benefits of an autonomous community in concrete contrast to the conjunction of the autonomous communities. And, therefore, you abandon that flag that you wanted to make your own, and that in the background we all knew that it was not your flag, that it was that of the equality of all Spanish citizens, because you who do it are consolidating a financing system that knows that in per capita do much less the citizens of Catalonia than the average of the citizens of the Spanish State. And you have not changed it; on the contrary: you have consolidated it, and you have consolidated it to the benefit of those who already had more privileges and against the interests, for example, of Catalan companies in the field of electricity bill. So, they're trying to do it right, and if they need us to help them plant it, we're happy to do it. I know that we are always willing to work together, so what is the political mark, also from the Catalan Republic. What we want is for the Kingdom of Spain, for Spain, for the Spanish citizens to go as far as possible, and we are convinced that the proposals that we make are the proposals that would make them better. And, therefore, we, always available, in this sense. And, in fact, we have explained it and we have proposed it on a number of occasions; we have also done it in the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council, we have done it in all possible areas. Therefore, willful collaboration, everything. And what we would appreciate is that you have the same spirit of collaboration with the Catalan society that we show every day with the Spanish society – the same. Because we are much more collaborators with the Spanish society than you are with the joint venture of the Catalan society, as demonstrated by the assumptions that they have jointly approved with the PP. And, therefore, they ask that this be rectified and that, when we have full responsibility, then we will certainly agree to modify the tax type, so that we can act on the system's joint. And as we can act on the conjunction of the system, our action will be extremely effective, which I understand is what you want. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.12.0	Thank you very much, Mr Junqueras. [[Question to the Government on the action of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature]] [[300-00193/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the action of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.13.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, vice president, deputies, deputies, people to accompany us, good morning to everyone. Well, the opposition's job is to control the government, in any democratic state; especially the opposition leaders we still, if any, have more responsibility for that. You have to try to do it in a constructive way. The opposition will also be constructive, the government will also be constructive, I think it must be... it must be balanced. It is not a question of saying 'no to everything, I think the opposition...', it is not a question of saying 'no to everything'. I think it is also necessary to highlight what one does well, it seems to me that it is necessary, and to recognise good when there are good ones. It will be difficult, Mrs Munté, for us to agree today; we have had some other questioning in this Faristol, and I do not intend to do so either, because that is difficult. But I am going to try to save what I can from your management and, as you will understand, to focus on what you do not do, on what you do not do, on what you are not up to, because, if not, I would be defrauding a lot of Catalans and because, if not, I would not be doing my job properly from the opposition. I believe that there are three aspects in which you have not been able to live up to during all these months: the first is the day-to-day reforms, in the policies that worry citizens every day; the second point is transparency and the fight against corruption, and the third point, therefore, is the exhausted and exhausting monotheme that you put day after day on the table. With regard to the first point, which speaks of those reforms which you have left behind, I believe that here you know perfectly well what you have not done. I don't think we also have to use these eight_minutes that I have left to talk about everything you haven't done. I think you know him, you are the first to know that you are not going to go into history because you are the government that has made the most reforms, that more proposals has put on the table, that more social proposals, that more economic proposals, that government that will lower taxes, as has now remained with Mr Junqueras; you will not be that government. But, in any case, I am convinced that there are many things that have remained in the tinker and that we, from our modest opinion, put him on the table, and I would like to know his specific opinion on these matters. For example, we have often talked about free child education from zero to three years: it is our obsession, and you have not moved a finger to get it. Of the free textbooks, another obsession, which has also been shown to be possible: in the Community of Madrid we have achieved this agreement and we have launched it, why can't we do it in Catalonia, if it has been done in the Community of Madrid? Of a better funding system, another of those great impossible issues in which you have left the chair empty on numerous occasions. From the Mediterranean Corridor, another of those clear bets in which it is difficult for you to have credibility, in the Mediterranean Corridor, when what you intend to do is disconnect; then, how are we going to connect better if you what you intend to do is disconnect? You'll understand it's hard to understand. The work of the autonomous, another of the great forgotten in this legislature for its part. We have promoted a law of self-government; our first law, in fact, in the Congress of Deputies has been a law of self-government. Many things can be done from Catalonia, with the limitations of course there are. Lower taxes – my colleague Carlos Carrizosa commented earlier in the previous inquiry – ; a lot of work, in that, that has not been done. And I would like you to position yourself on each of these issues to the extent that you know your opinion and how you can improve. There is a second point, and you will understand that, with the briefness of an inquiry, I cannot make a thorough analysis of what you have done. I insist on positive points: guaranteed income, which was approved yesterday, I think it is a great advance for..., of all these parliamentary groups that have committed themselves; the Security Board that has been convened, on which I also join the congratulations to the Councillor. I think there are things that have started, that are positive, but you will understand that there are so many others that surprise us. In the area of transparency and the fight against corruption. Corruption is the second problem of the citizens, we have also talked about it many times in this Parliament, and especially it is the first problem of many parties like yours. You will tell me: "Well, but don't tell me about my party, tell me about the management of the government and what we can do. But it is hard not to talk about the management that you have done, because it is no longer just corruption that you know; it is no longer just Mr.Artur Mas putting his hand in the fire by the gentlemen who are now declaring and singing The Traviata, literally, in the courts; it is no longer just because you have managed and prevented Palau from claiming to his party the money that you stole. It is no longer just these things, which are bloody to the whole citizenry, regardless of what you have voted for, but we are particularly concerned about the work you have done as a government. We will also put aside the Palau case: the blockade, for the first time in the history of democracy in this Parliament..., which blocks a committee of inquiry. In short, I believe that these are the issues that you know, that we have an obligation to remember each day, because they seem worrying to us, they seem bloody to us, we find it regrettable in the middle of the 21st century that there is still a party that practices these practices. But in any case, you know them, and you can tell me: "Well, that's my party. If my party has corruption problems and is in danger of extinction, it is my party's fault. But what has your government done? Because you could say to me: "Look, my party does that, but I am then exemplary in the government, I am exemplary to the extent that I push laws to fight corruption. How many laws have you made to fight corruption in this legislature? Zero, not one. How much have they done to depoliticize justice? , which is something you are concerned about; you are concerned now, especially, because now, as you do not choose judges, then, when you do not choose them, you are concerned about the depoliticization of justice. But what have they done to combat the depoliticization of justice? You could tell me: "Well, here we do what we can. But what have you done in Congress for so long, where you have been decisive? Not anymore, they are now in the mixed group, but when they were decisive, what did they do to combat the depoliticization of the Constitutional Court, for example? Did they do something? No, they didn't do anything, and neither have they done anything here, in this legislature. Any concrete proposals to combat corruption? I do not find any in the whole review of the laws and proposals by your parliamentary group, in this case, or by the Government itself. But then you could tell me: "Look, we haven't started any laws because we haven't had time, because there hasn't been a chance to do that, but we're exemplary in transparency. Then I would, logically, have to shut up and sit in my seat again. But it is that one looks at the transparency of the Government..., travel is not published, another topic that you know and on which I will not extend too much; meetings are not published on the agenda, another topic that you know; memorandums are not published, information requested by the opposition, another topic that you know. We will no longer talk about the international corrections, the ridiculous international ones to which Mr Romeva has also accustomed us, which you also know and which you have had the opportunity to listen, to my colleagues and to me, on numerous occasions. In this respect, therefore, in this second aspect of the fight against corruption and transparency, they do nothing to combat corruption, and I say 'nothing because it is true: it is a zero proposal in the fight against corruption, and then they suspend in transparency, very clearly. And finally, we have, as you know, the monotheme, the process, to which your Government devotes a great deal of time. These days we are talking about a new advisor, new responsibilities to further arm the discourse of the failure of the 9-N bis. And the truth is, in this sense, it's because they're up to us, like the previous ones, that they're just lying. And I say it with all the letters. « In eighteen months we will be independent. I believe that when a president says 'in eighteen months we will be independent and fail to do so, I think he should resign, sincerely. Because he has defrauded most of the Catalans who told him no to Mr Puigdemont – like you, the social majority of Catalonia knows – but I also believe that he has defrauded many of his own, who trusted that in eighteen months they would be independent. And then there's a list, terrible, too, huge, long, of an agreement that you signed with the UPC on independence, in which you practically fail to comply with all the points, right? Drafting a preliminary draft law for the electoral law, a central bank; they also speak..., of « obtaining data with tax transcendence, « establishing a strategy of implementation of the duaner system, « regulating the adscript of the university professorate, establishing a suitable plan of program to create a structure to manage, or follow, « defining the legislation on communication media, private security, « regulating ports and airports. An endless list of issues that you have not made either. I care less, in this sense, because I understand that you will have to manage your failure with your own, but it says a lot about a government that commits itself to things that not even in its specialty, which is the monotheme, not even in its specialty, which is independence, not even in that you approve – not even in that you approve. And then there's one last topic, this last minute that I have left, which is especially worrying. Because you could tell me: "Well, then, look, Mr De Páramo, this is my government, it's the president, and I have the responsibility that I have. But there is one issue where you have direct responsibility, which has also heard me many times talk about it, which is the media. And here you could tell me: "Look, then, in this sense... I would like to know how you would qualify the management that is being done of the public media, how qualified you would put it to your management. Because here, apart from the political connotation, which we will now also talk about, when you get the worst results from TV3's audience history, I think you have to make a reflection and a self-criticism; I would like to hear the, that self-criticism. When you agree with all the opposition, including the UPC, with Citizens, with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, with the Socialist Group, with the People's Party, with a nomination by Mr Sanchis, I think you would have to reflect, too, on that. And when a parliament votes democratically – you, who often give us lessons in democracy [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] – the revocation of Mr Sanchis and the resignation of Mrs Llorach – and I conclude, President – I think it also deserves reflection. I would like you, in this sense, in which you are primarily responsible and is one of your department's responsibilities, to be clear, to make self-criticism, because there is nothing wrong with self-criticism and recognizing concrete errors. And I think it's the opportunity, in this interpellation, to do the.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.14.0	Sir De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.15.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.16.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.17.0	Thank you very much. Very good morning, Madam President, deputies and deputies. Mr. Member, first of all, let's see that you're the main opposition group, but that's for everyone else – it's to do this government control activity. If it's constructive, better than better, and let's just say that there are days or times when it's all more built and others when it's less, but that's not a problem either. But what I would also like to do is to thank him that once again... I have not yet had a chance to be questioned by his parliamentary group, for you, so as to explain the action of government, and I thank him for having another opportunity to be able to dispose here, in the Chamber, of fifteen minutes to be able to talk about the action of government. And I also thank you that on this occasion what you call the monotheme is in the third place, let's say, of your priorities at the time of asking me, at the time of asking me. Because when you asked me five months ago, practically exclusively [[Funnel veils]] – I'm sorry, or it was Mr. Carrizosa – you raised the monotheme as well as the monotheme, huh? , of this inquiry. And today you have put many other questions, which I appreciate, because it will certainly allow us to talk, this, about things that are absolutely of interest to everyone and I can hold back, which is what is close to the government, about the action we develop from different departments from our competitions in each one. You have told me about the day-to-day reforms, we will talk about transparency and, obviously, about the "process, as you call it, a terminology that I do not do for myself, because the "process is finally the compromise that we have assumed with the Government to bring forward a reference for the self-determination of Catalonia, on the basis, and it is as simple as that, to a majority of Parliament that supports us and to a social majority that is also fully supportive of being able to vote in a reference with all the guarantees. In any case, there are some of the questions that you raised in the apartment, we might say, of social and economic proposals that you find lacking in the action of this government. Logically, I can't agree with that. This is a government that, despite the situation in which we find ourselves on an economic, competitive, democratic basis, also develops a very important action, and more so from the adoption of the new assumptions, from the implementation of a plan of government that has among its priorities, for example, the most just country, a new state of welfare for everyone, better work, an economy for people, or good practices – good practices –, where obviously we carry out a whole series of actions in relation to transparency and democratic regeneration. You were talking to me, and you did it too... you did it in the previous interview, about zero-three years of education. You make a good political criticism, surely it's legitimate, but you left it in the first place that your situation, your paper before the Government of the State, your ability to influence it before the Government of the State, so it leaves much to be desired, because I have not seen at any time that you are accompanying us in the complaint that we make, since years ago, to the Government of the State, for having left to zero the aids that he gave not only for the zero-three-year stage, but also for the three-year stage, for that reason, to the whole stage of childhood education. I don't think I've remembered that since the year 2012 – therefore, it's already a pile of years – this presuppositional game has remained at zero; a game that we've never recovered more from Catalonia and, therefore, the total cost of schooling three-if we support it in its entirety, one hundred_per_cent, from the Government of Catalonia, from the Department of Education, because one hundred_per_cent of the school population at this stage is educated. So, in this complaint, I think it's fair, that I think it's legitimate, it tastes hard and it's hard to hear that you don't use your influence ability to claim better in this sense. You were talking about, in relation to the financing system, leaving the chair empty. That's not true: the chair, empty, never stayed. Our focus on a better financing model, outdated and unfair, we keep from the first moment. What we have said is that we will not lead any proposal of this funding system because we know that this leads to failure, as it has been until now, without any kind of novelty. He says we have little credibility at the time of talking about the Mediterranean Corridor. But, listen, you, who give support to a government, to the Government of the People's Party, who comes to us with the Mediterranean Corridor passing through Madrid? It's unbelievable. They are explaining to us, and not just explaining, but moving to the capital of the State, to Madrid, the priorities of this work. The Government of Catalonia is a firm defender of the Mediterranean Corridor, because this is a major issue for the communities of our citizens and businesses, for the competitiveness of this country. Where are you when you make these statements on behalf of the Minister of Development and when you make this change in priorities? Honestly, I can't hear him. Yesterday we had to listen to how you took all the medals about changing the autonomes. Very welcome, all the contributions that are made, but not all of them are attributed, because we have been working for many years, Catalan parliamentary groups in Madrid, and the same government of Catalonia also in this legislature, in the best way for which it does day-to-day self-employed workers and the rule of self-employed workers. Don't get all the medals, because that, honestly, I mean, has a point of injustice. And, for another band, you're talking about taxes. Before I was able to listen to the question they made to the Vice-President and Economic Adviser, and, of course, he answered them perfectly: you are the parliamentary group that supports a government that has characterized itself, the Government of the People's Party, to push all taxes, and you are there supporting and applauding these measures. Yes, Mr. Deputy – yes, Mr. Deputy. That said, I did not come here to talk about my book, nor obviously to read them the telephone guide, but I did come to answer about what it calls his inquiry, which is the work of government. And the work of government is, of course, composed of measures in which we have been able to be more agile and more effective in its implementation, and others in which we have unfortunately not been able to achieve our objective yet. But I am convinced, if we look at each other objectively – and I know that you, this objective exercise, can also do it – that we would agree that you have been able to achieve very important things. You, in fact, have already mentioned one, which is precisely the approval, yesterday, of the Law of guaranteed citizenship income. Fixed, five months ago – I filled in the question you asked me – tell us: "With regard to the guaranteed income of citizenship, you have done nothing but lose it. We said: "We are working, we are agreeing with the entities, with the promoter group, and obviously we will also do with the rest of the parliamentary groups, the best possible closure of this law and its measures. So, look, we've already got this approved law, right here, to the hemicicle; we're preparing all the administrative management because it's possible to start applying the next September, with an implementation you already know, which will be for the next four years, until April 2020, when all the beneficiaries will charge 100% of the expected benefit. I left it, too, some of the questions related to the scope of transparency. You have made reference, and your criticism has been, that it is not a government that is sufficiently transparent or that has not been incorporated into its plan of government with this objective. So, let's just correct it. This is a government that kept a score of 98.1 points, over a hundred, at the transparency index of the autonomous communities, of Transparency International, only behind the Basque Country, which has the highest score, of 100. We have approved the Open Governance Platform, which includes important objectives and measures also in the field of transparency; a code of conduct for senior officials and senior management of the Administration of the Generality and Public Sector Entities; also the updating of the Code of Principles and Recommended Conduct in the Public Contract; a new regulation also in the responsible public contract, with a decree of urgent measures in the field of public contract, and, as you know, also the processing of the Advance draft law on contracts for services to people, where precisely what is a pre-eminence, also according to the principles governing this legislation in Europe, of the quality criteria against the economic value of the individual; of the design, of the design, of the design, of the design, of the design, of the design. And you have to understand that I am obviously referring to the measures that fall within the competence of this Government: here we are not talking about political formations, here we are not, honourable Member, to address this issue. But I did let them, or better said to remind them, because I am convinced that they know it, that they know it and that they suffer it perfectly, that you precisely to whom they have given support, to whom they are giving support until today is the most corrupt party in the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.18.0	Thank you, Counselor Munté. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.19.0	Well, thank you, President. Well, counselor, I think I've started with a quiet, quiet, relaxed tone, but it's just that you're finally going to have to raise the tone by your way of incriminating, talking about the telephone list, that I come here to sell my book... Let's see, counselor, don't hang yourself medals from guaranteed income – don't hang yourself medals. You who give lessons that we hang medals, what have you done? Now because they're in the mixed group, I remind you, up there in Congress, up there in a schooner. But what have you done for so long in Congress, in addition to agreeing with the People's Party? Because, of course, [[applause]] , is that it makes me funny when you tell us: "No, it is that you agree with the People's Party. Yes, and with the Socialist Party, of course, because agreements have to be reached, because policy is to reach agreements, Mrs Munté. We will not refuse to agree with the People's Party, it would just be missing! And with the Socialist Party, of course. It's just that politics is dialogue. But it's just that you've always made a deal with the People's Party, all your life. In fact, they voted in favour of the tax amnesty, of the manita. Now that you criticise Mr Montoro so much, but if you voted for the tax amnesty. For what? To protect your partner, Mr. Pujol. [[Greetings.]] So, what are you complaining about, Mrs. Munté? If you have been the historical partners of the People's Party; until two days ago Mrs Sánchez-Camacho here, with you – until two days ago. So, please, a little memory. We have reached an investment agreement, and very proud that we are, because we are getting a lot of changes with that, very proud we are getting changes. And you say: "Man, of course, is that we do not lead the financing and all the financing issues. Well, I'd like the Government of the Generalitat to lead something, because you don't lead anything, you don't even lead the process. By the way, « process, your term: please do not attribute to me the honor of having created the term« process, this is the thing of your party partners, so you coined it and you defend it every day. Mediterranean Corridor, you speak. How can you talk about the Mediterranean Corridor? He'd have to drop his face in shame. If you want to disconnect, you want the "Mediterranean Corridor", you don't want the Mediterranean Corridor. What are you going to do? A Mediterranean corridor with borders every five_minutes? Is that your project? If you want to leave Spain and the European Union, how are you going to connect better? And self-reliant. He says: "Do not hang medals. And at five_minutes you hang the guaranteed income medal, but it's the same. « Don't hang medals, he tells us. But what have you done with the autonomous? – but what have you done? If you have spent thirty years in the Congress of Deputies and have done nothing. How many autonomous laws have they introduced? Tell me a law of self-government and I promise I will be silent forever – tell me a law of self-government that you have presented to the Congress of Deputies. The first one, ours. And then, another theme: TV3, you forgot. I hope that now, that he has five_minutes..., he will no longer leave me a reply, I will no longer be able to answer him; that's the old trick of leaving for the last one so they won't answer you. But in any case, don't get away with the TV3 thing, don't get away with it because that's your responsibility. I already know you guys like to take off and put on TV directors. I already know that you like to have only the media subsidized that is appropriate to you. I already know that you say that there are means that do not have to be credible and that there are media, as you said yesterday, that are not of recognized prestige. But if President Puigdemont writes articles in those media that are not of recognized prestige, but what happens? That when Mr. Puigdemont writes them the medium is the best in the world, and when he does not write Mr. Puigdemont is the medium with less recognized prestige? Stop getting into the media, they like it a lot. Freedom of expression, Mrs Munté – freedom of expression. I say this because you always complain about the media in Madrid, but if you do the same here. But who are you trying to fool? If you control TV3, if you disconnect the TV3 phone, if you put a TV3 director who makes rallies with the ANC with the stellate. Do you imagine it was the other way around, with Spanish Television? You couldn't bear it—you couldn't bear it. Anyway, don't run away, please, with the TV3 theme, which interests me a lot. Corruption........................................................................................................................................................................... You say: "Well, we are the most transparent government in the world with a 99... Look, how many anti-corruption laws have you introduced? Tell me one, too, as the one of self-governing. None, ma'am will advise – none. Do you agree to put an end to political outbursts, for example? – Do you agree? I have, I have already said; we have already voted for it, we have, in fact, achieved it in other parts of Spain: Andalusia and Murcia. Do you agree to put an end to the political outbursts, Mrs Munté? [[Widow's remorse.]] I already know that you are now having some sort of shrapnel, but if you can answer me in the following question: do you agree to end the political outbursts? Do you agree to terminate and limit mandates? Do you agree to limit the terms of office of the President of the Generalitat, Mrs Munté? Do you agree to end the political pardons that you and the People's Party liked so much, with your fellow Unions? Do you agree with all that? Because we can talk about score: 99_about_a hundred, 96 about... That's very good for the headline, the paper can handle everything. But real politics: do you agree to put an end to political strenuousness? Answer me. Now that you have accused in your parliamentary group of corruption – you are champions of the world of corruption – let's see if, now that you have accused of corruption, you are able to say whether you agree or not. And finally, Mrs. Munté. I think you've reached an end to the cycle. You've been in politics too long and many of your party's colleagues too. In fact, you have always lived from politics, you know nothing beyond politics, except a few years that you stuck a stick to the water. And with that I want to tell you that end of the cycle, Mrs. Munté...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.20.0	Sir De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.21.0	... – end of cycle, Mrs. Munté –...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.22.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.23.0	...call elections and we'll vote for a government that doesn't hide...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.24.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.25.0	...and a government that looks like it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.26.0	Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.27.0	Tea...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.28.0	Ladies and gentlemen, I have started with a lot, obviously, very paused and very polite, as I always try, but I do not tolerate you speaking in these terms of my parliamentary group partners or members of the government. I would like to know if you have had the same professional experience, since we are very young, and I am looking at some of the companies that are around here and many that aren't there, but I would like to know if you have had the same professional experiences, since we are very young, and I am looking at some of the companies that are not here, but also that they have... They ask you for a little respect on this issue, because we haven't stuck to the water, it seems like a supreme indignity, honourable Member. You are very rude and, in the absence of arguments, tend to attack, in this case, the opponent. I will not do the same, but I will tell you, if I may, to explain to me how you can feel proud of your contributions, for example, to the general assumptions of the State. Does that really hold the elbow test? - Proud? You said that you are proud of the contributions that the Ciutadans Group is making. Listen, as far as I know – and if not, then you deny it: you don't have time to talk here, but you can do it, sure, on any of the TV sets you're used to going to – the items that you presented to the general assumptions of the State were limited to two items worth 400,000_euros, which are less than 2_percent of the total, of your items, and which you ended up withdrawing, I suppose to shame you will, because, obviously, of this, one can't feel proud. Do you feel proud to have promised the removal of crops throughout the State when only they were able to plant it in Murcia? – only to Murcia. And he asks me if we agree on the withdrawal of flowers. But if it's you, the ones who flagged it during the election campaign. Only in Murcia, for God's sake, is that not even so alone in the investment pact in Andalusia, they have succeeded. And I'm going back to saying, they've raised Mariano Rajoy's investment from the most corrupt party in the whole of Spain, and they're continuing to support him. You're not entitled to talk about corruption, because when you have a chance to stop governments... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Much more than you, I assure you, much more than you – much more than you. [[Some applause.]] Thank you, Congresswoman, at least someone knows I'm telling the truth. You have made it possible for Mariano Rajoy to be president of the Government of the State, and we are talking, again, about the most corrupt party in history and the Spanish State. I didn't get away from talking about public media. You say: "His management over public media. Cap managed, Mr. MP; he managed, over the public media. You know perfectly well who is the role of the Government of the Generality, concretely of the Department of the Presidency in relation to the contract program, in relation to the financing of public media. Certainly, you are not entitled to speak either of freedom of speech or of public media, because they are the only political formation that in the assumptions of the Government of the Generality..., the only ones that place a considerable drop in the assumption of TV3 as much as of Catalonia Radio. Do you think this is a good contribution to public media that have very clear and determined functions? Do you think that the plurality that exists in the Catalan public media – informational, third-party – is comparable to that of the Spanish public media? Are you serious? Do we teach ourselves about freedom of speech? You, who give support to a government, that of the People's Party, that has shut down public television or that has made journalists out of ideological discrepancies? Listen, look at some things before you tell them, because it's too thick to come here and give us lessons on this. I will not explain it again, because I believe that I have done so in not knowing how many declines in control sessions here in Parliament, about the audience data and the positive value made by the citizens of Catalonia who sort out the information, both from Catalonia Radio and from TV3, in order to find out what they believed in their credibility, obviously, and their plurality. That doesn't hold the elbow test either. Honestly, Mr. Member, I think you've started off a bit well and ended very badly, showing off... yes, showing off what you like the most, who are the cridaners, not getting into the bottom line and lying. If here there is someone inconsistent are you; if here someone lies, boasting of certain electoral promises, that then, when they have occasion to complete them, remain in the empty bag, they are precisely you, at the level of the State. Meanwhile, we will continue to work on this plan of government that you did not care about, because at last you asked me little respect. We will continue to work to complete the plan of government with all the objectives of the legislature, among which obviously also the reference. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.29.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. [[Inquiries to the Government on Housing]] [[300-00194/11]] The new item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on housing presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.30.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, advisors, deputies and deputies... Since the social economic crisis broke out, much has been said about housing: it has been explained, documented and quantified the need for housing in our country; it has also spoken about the most vulnerable collectivities and territorially defined those areas with major problems. That's all been done. What has not been done is to solve the housing situation in Catalonia. And it's that we're still in an unsustainable situation. Everything that explains to us from his department, counsel, the situation remains untenable, and that is not what we do in an opposition exercise, the social entities working in this area tell us. In Catalonia there is a need for 230,000 social housing; the social housing park in Catalonia is 2_percent, clearly insufficient for our needs and much less 15_percent of the European average. Who are the collections that see most affected by this low social housing market? So they are obviously families with limited resources, families at risk of social exclusion and also young people. And here I would like to put an end to, because, with all the situation of severe crisis that has occurred, of people who have lost their habitat due to lack of mortgage or logger payment, the performance of the Administration has simply been reactive, to meet those most urgent needs. An important collection has been left behind in this fact, which is that of young people. They can't emancipate, 80 percent of young people can't emancipate. And you'll tell us that this obviously linked to the occupation, and that's right, but it also linked to the price they have to pay for housing. And it's that the young people's perception of their work doesn't connect, it doesn't fit in any way with the costs of housing, with the costs of a lodger they have to pay to have this habitat; we're no longer talking about the ownership of a habitat, because accessing the funding to be able, therefore, to dispose of this ownership is impossible. And this problem is increasing in certain areas. The prices in some territorial areas are completely inexhaustible: we talk about Barcelona and we talk about the metropolitan area. And that has a young people's expulsion effect. And it will have an impact not only on the lives of these young people, on the impossibility of making an autonomous life project in the city where they have grown, but also on the social structure of these cities over time and finally throughout the country. Therefore, the young people's situation respects habitation is dramatic. I therefore need public policies to promote access to young people's housing. In fact, counsel, we need public housing policies, policies that vaginate more than just welfare actions. We cannot react to the problems: we have been talking about the escalator of the real estate economic crisis for years now, in the face of the most urgent situations. But this must not make us lose sight of the fact that the Government also has to make a planning policy in housing, with the time when the situation will hardly be the same as before the crisis, with the evidence of the paradigm shift, of the housing tenance model, which had historically been based on ownership and which had necessarily passed to the lodger. Public policies must ensure that this logger is accessible to everyone. The government, he will advise, must act. We need to look for effective and effective mechanisms to influence the logger market, to increase logger habitat in the free market, but especially in the public park. For us, the only way to directly influence the price of housing is to create a public housing park that covers the real needs we currently have in Catalonia. As I said at the beginning, Counselor, Catalonia needs 230,000 social logger habitats, and we don't have them. What we do have is the strength of empty habitats: 47,000 are the habitats in the hands of the financial entities that consist in the register of empty habitats or with occupants without enabling title. Of these 47,000, only about four thousand have been transferred to the Generalitat to devote them to social policies. It's a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little, a little. But it's clear that even though we got the 47,000 habitats of the funded entities to allocate them to social housing, there wouldn't be enough. We need to look for other formulas in order to meet the existing need and, therefore, to increase, according to the needs, the public park of habitats, formulas like increasing the cessation of habitats both in the great ones but also in the small ones – our country is a country with a structure, let us say, very, very diversified of the property of the habitat, with very small ones– ; on the other hand, the purchase of dwellings of second hand or built and not come, and the promotion of new works. They are formulas that obviously require a significant reversal of economic resources, some more than others, but for us it is the key once again to reverse the current situation of inability to access the housing of many collections, especially the most vulnerable. And we do not ask that this is done today, in a presuppositionary exercise: this action would be useful to plan it in several years, but with a narrow horizon in the time that you allow to enter donate out to those situations that are harder to risk of residential exclusion. And to enter, if I may, into some of these formulas that I pointed out, such as the purchase of the already built empty habitat, we understand that we should prioritise the purchase through the exercise of the right of tanteig and retract the sales HPO promotions already in use, in order to change from rule to logger in a maximum of 25_percent of the habitats of each promotion. But we also believe that it is an opportunity to acquire empty habitats in the hands of funded entities, either directly or in the exercise of the right of choice and withdrawal. It is the opportunity to obtain reasonable available empty habitats, and that would allow us to expand the public park in a stable way, since the cessation is temporary and therefore does not give the necessary stability. This already built housing purchase formula is much more economical than the production of new construction housing. But it is clear that if we want to meet the need of the 230,000 habitats, the Government will have to plan to resort to it – to resort to the new construction, I mean – not to the whole territory, not indiscriminately, but in the municipalities with accredited demand, and prioritizing, in this sense, agreements with the third sector. All folded, counselor, needs planning. We don't just have to focus on solving the most immediate emergencies, but also address actions in the medium term. And in parallel with these blunt actions to obtain this public park in a rather important way to significantly affect the price of the logue, we believe that the Government must work on other measures, more concretely, that involve an economic effort not so important, but that they can also help to improve access to housing or its maintenance in case of difficulties at the time of facing up to its cost. Measures such as encouraging the cessation of habitat of small and medium-sized owners, who, in the event of a change in the security of the logger's collection and possibly a certain rehabilitation of the logger's habitat, can place their living, this living at a price. In fact, this is a measure that many gatherings have already approached and that the Generalitat at other times had also worked. Or how to implement a stable out-of-court mediation service in local housing offices, or the cross-cutting work of the different government departments, the municipalities, the Ministry of Justice and the General Council of the Judiciary to detect cases of housing initiation because social services can act. There are protocols now, but they don't work. And other specific measures for the young people's collection, which I believe I will not have time to detail now and, in any case, in the second part of my intervention I will already do. These are some of the measures that we believe can be taken immediately to improve, as we say, access and retention to habitat. What we are clear is that there are two scenes: a scene that is the most immediate, that of acting with these measures that are, let's say, much more concrete, and that have a smaller economic abyss, and another that is planning, also acting in the field of urban legislation, and that of putting money and resources, in order to guarantee a public park of housing sufficiently wide to be able to guarantee the right to housing and the right to take on a logue worthy of all people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.31.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.32.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of Parliament, first place, and above all after the last question, let me thank you for all of this. It is good that in this Parliament there may be debates like lime, political debates, in which we can confront our opinions, which are not always the same, but always with the utmost respect. And I think we share, in addition, in this case, the need to respond to the need for a material as sensitive as housing, right? Obviously, you said, housing forms part of what is a fundamental element in a vital project; in young people, more so, here we have to put the emphasis. And so, you know, and I think it's good that we say it, that the government has prioritized housing policy. And, therefore, we have been as innovative as ever in the field of legislation in this field, and we have put more resources in this field than ever before. And that, I think it is also necessary to stress, we have been able to work together with the local world, which I do not want to neglect the work it has done. Therefore, great efforts have been made by the Government of Catalonia, also by local administrations, and especially if we take into account, therefore, who was the paper, the sad paper made by the Government of the State, putting sticks to the wheels in everything. Therefore, no excuse, yes much work on this priority, and one of the main objectives we have with the Government is that our citizens can access the habitation, for one band, and, for the other, another element that the last few years has occupied a lot of effort, which is that they can keep it. Therefore, we act in situations of residential emergence and offer help to the citizen who have difficulties accessing or maintaining their habitat. Who are the four main tools? The public housing stock in social logger, mediation to resolve cases of over-indebtedness, help with logger payments and mortgage and the reallocation of families at risk of habitat loss. And here I want to point out, I am listening, that last year the Government of Catalonia has put in 109_million euros to help and benefits to avoid the loss of habitat, which means a 30_per_cent more than it was last year, and, more than that, which is a 50_per_cent more than it was last year 2012, bearing in mind that the Government of the State has reduced its contribution to half. So we've been working on it. In the matter of avoiding, therefore, that there are denunciations. Listen'm, the year 2016 we did not avoid 4,480, that means a mean higher than deu diaris, and 148 denominations avoided more than 2015. The majority of the actions to avoid denunciation have obviously concentrated in the areas of major population. Therefore, listen'm, the work that is done by Ofideute, that we have increased the points of presence in the country's conjunction– at these times in are seventy-five –, it is very much and, therefore, we have more than thirteen_ thousand cases since 2011, with a positive resolution level of 70_per_cent of the cases, and I think that this is worth taking into account. There's another important element, isn't there? , which is the whole issue of regular services to help pay for logger. This past year 2016 has been, therefore, fifty_ thousand, the performances, and here too, I insist, a lot of work. It's true that we have a smaller housing stock than other countries, but it's also true that the government is making an important effort to increase it, despite the economic difficulties that we all know we are going through. Therefore, in this sense, we have twenty-i-set_ thousand dwellings with a social logger that rounds..., go, no, listen'm, precise data: with a social logger of 175,73_euros of middle. And we have to figure out what are the more than four-thousand dwellings given to the funded entities; to you it may seem a little, we can value it this way, but we take into account that this is the highest of the state's conjunction. If I find any autonomous community – to speak in terms, therefore, that they serve at the level of the State – that you have obtained more than four thousand habitats, or more than a thousand, you warn me. So, listen to me, although we want to get more, let's not miss what we've done, that..., like no one else. Therefore, we are working to expand this housing park. And it's true, in the field... we've done something revolutionary, that maybe people don't give it enough value, that it's the royal decree that allows us, listen'm, to get, therefore, habitations by chance and retract to a price certainly..., floors that are built, that are mostly in good condition, to an unimaginable price, right? I'm sorry, I said royal decree and no, in this country no royal decrees, are decrees law, eh? I see the secretary of Habitatge, who I'm always wrong about this whole thing, from me, because it's not a royal decree, it's a law decree. Listen to me, joke aside, our decree allows us to get habitats for as many and retraction, which is frankly a fantastic thing, at a price of fifty thousand euros already, so it means that we get them at a very good price, as you said. And here we have put a lot of effort, so much effort that it has allowed us to get more than 630 habitats, and the forecast is to end this 2017 exceeding, therefore, a thousand floors. Listen to me, we've got 636 habitats that are already acquired, 84 of them we have pending; so, we have, already, we could say, 720 habitats in the hands of the Habitat Agency acquired by this way. This same option has the joints, each and every one of them. What have the gatherings done? Without that being said, it is an objective fact: 242, the finances of all the assemblies have donated for 242. And I also want to put in value what the entities have done without any work: they have come and lived; not because they have come and gone, on the contrary: they have made a great effort to acquire them. Don't take them, the data I tell you, as a criticism, is a finding of a few facts. Therefore, listen'm, we..., is expected to allocate in this exercise 31_million euros to obtain habitats for this way; the year 2016 was 13,8_millions. You think that here we, in addition, don't just have the money we get from the tax on empty floors, but we have made an agreement, that Incasól spends a few million so that we can acquire more habitat for this way, because we are convinced that this is a good way to get habitat at the right price. And, therefore, listen to me, the effort and emphasis is put on it. But there are other things we work on, aren't there? And I said this: the signature of agreements with the financial entities. Let's not miss it, please: 4,010 habitats are not a joke, and so we have that. Or the Incasòl, which began, therefore, again, to build to obtain a park of habitats. And listen to me, we... it's that this given of the 235,000 habitations, you know, of course, of the PTSH, what it is made for the government, and that, therefore, we are aware, of what reality we have in front of us. And, therefore, with the observation of these data, what do we want to do? A background job; that's exactly why we can debate it now, because we can see who are the policies that have to be done in the next fifteen years. Obviously, we won't solve it in a year, all that, but it's obvious that we have to set up a line of action for fifteen years. And, therefore, this government does not store the head under the wing, what we have done is a thorough analysis, is to see who are the real needs that we will have in the next fifteen years in housing, and therefore, from here, a firm compromise that must be not only of the government, but also that we are sure that it will be on the part of all local administrations. So, listen to me, what's this PTSH doing? Therefore, have a 5_percent of dwellings intended for social logger and that 15_percent of the buildings are used for social policies in areas considered to be of high demand. So, listen to me, we take this issue seriously, with the analysis, with the depth that it requires and, therefore, in this sense, with the will to put it to debate, as we have done – and you know that, so you have the data – because there is all the transparency, all the information for the assemblies, for the other administrations directly involved, right? There are other areas in which you have not done anything, but I do want to value the reference index. And, therefore, listen, here they have also worked to make the logger a positive element, an element that plays in favor, and not a secondary element, as it has been so far. We believe, on our part, that it is basic and that is why we are working intensively on the subject of the Law of Urban Rentals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.33.0	Thank you, Counselor Borrás. There's a word for Mrs. Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, thank you for your explanation. In fact, before I liked it all; I think we have to respect it all, huh? , that we use, because at the head and at the end we all try to work to improve the conditions of Catalans and Catalans, especially in our case, on the issue of housing. You said that, well, you said that housing for this government is a priority issue and that it was allocated more resources than ever before. We can't agree with that, Counselor. You are more or less 50_percent of what the Government intended for you, for example, by President Montilla, and, therefore, we cannot agree with these facts. And, therefore, we understand that housing for its government is not as high a priority, because political priorities are shown to be precisely putting resources to it. He has made reference, on the one hand, to the local world and also to the Government of the State, something to which we are already accustomed, and it is certain that the Government of the State lately, therefore, leaves much to be desired in its attitude before housing policies and coordination with the Government of the Generality – it is true. But we also need to remember that socialist governments have been much more sensitive in working with the Generality in this area. As for the local world, to which you refer, obviously the assemblies have done a small job in housing, and in many cases they felt very alone and little accompanied, and with few resources. And that's probably why they've been able to buy quite a few habitats, 242, which still has to be put in value for this cup, isn't it? But we must remember that the competence in housing is not of the joints, she advises, it is of the Government of the Generalitat, and, therefore, it is the Government of the Generalitat that is to lead the housing policies and, in any case, if the joints want to act in a certain way, it is the Government of the Generalitat that passes the necessary foundations because they can do it. You used to tell us, well, if it seemed like the public park to us a little bit. So, yes, it seems a little, because actually the figures are what they are: we need these 230,000 habitats and, therefore, it seems a little, to us and to the social entities that work in this area and that see real very hard realities. We also want to do a background job, which obviously won't be able to solve in a year. As we have said, we need some legislative changes, we understand, because, therefore, it is really possible to give the capacity enough to have this public housing park that is sufficient for the needs we have in the country, and, obviously, to put the money in it..., that they cannot be put into a presuppositionary exercise, but that they must be put in place and that, moreover, action must be taken to solve those more peremptory problems, so to speak, those problems in which we have some more urgent needs. I, finally, the issue of young people, which is of particular concern to us. Miri, 2007 Avalot presented a popular legislative initiative with measures to facilitate access to young people's housing. This initiative went from one legislature to another to reach the present. On the occasion we were able to listen to the experts who spoke on the subject and asked us about the actual table the drama of young and not so young to access the habitation. The thrusters of the initiative were aware, and all the parliamentary groups, that the real estate economic reality had changed, and that, therefore, the text as such of the initiative, therefore, did not fit well with the current reality. And in fact, the groups were able to submit papers to that text, and make it more consistent with the current situation. And here we are finished, with the presentation of these papers, because at this hour this initiative sleeps the sound of the righteous. We didn't know any more, because we understand that the group that brings the government together, so this hasn't come up, and so the government understands that it doesn't have enough, let's just say, initiative or interest in putting this young people's situation back on track. Actually, you, Counselor, didn't mean enough either. He spoke before the index reference. So good the index of reference can suppose a solution, even if it is partial, to the problem of housing that we currently have, especially the city of Barcelona and the metropolitan area, but we fear that it will not really be a tipping point, it will not be a very effective solution. And that's why we're asking you that what you're doing is you're focusing on having a public park of enough size, because that does have a better amount of housing on the market, and therefore a better amount of housing prices. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.35.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.36.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. You said that the gatherings were very lonely, and it seems to me that this is not so, that can't tell us. We've accompanied the gatherings, we've been at their side or, rather, on other occasions we've been at the front, haven't we? Make reference to the exercise of the right of aunt and retraction. Listen to me, we will have materialized more than a thousand acquisitions for this way, two hundred and five on the part of the joints; there is no shortage – there is no shortage – but 230 on the part of the joints. And you could read the list, but you don't need to, right? , it's like law, assembly, not a sun, huh? They called to the door to say, "Listen to me, is that what we're doing in myths? Because there have been cases of conjunctions, mid-measures, that have said: "Listen, here's a very interesting promotion that we can't buy, but we just can't do it. Did you help us? And we've always been at the side of these gatherings. So, really, huh? Things are as they are. Or I'll let you tell them something else, won't you? What is the expropriation provided for in Law 4/2016. Here they asked, and they asked that you make up, in the law, 50_percent of the aid per part of the Government of the Generality. And we said it would be, but as there were doubts and reticences – I can hear it – we ended up introducing it into the text. There are 7_million_i_mig willing to make this expropriation provided for in Law 4/2016. And I have to tell you that I have to claim more involvement in this area, because there are a total of thirty-six municipalities that have not expressed, have not made us come to no interest in being able to work in this way... And I could say the names of some of the joints that, so, they do a little... it's contradicted the fact that sometimes they make great speeches about housing and, then, about this tool that they defended until they told us either that or that. So, listen to me, this is reality. Or in the 60/40 program, in which in the Government of the Generality pays the 60_percent of the lloger and 40 the pay the joint, so, we find that we have only rejected petitions for part of..., seven petitions, right? – seven petitions–, this is reality, of seven different joints. Of the comarques of Barcelona, there are six, the joints that have been pointed out; more, eh? We pay for 60_per_cent; 40_per_cent pays for the joint, and to what the family pays is taken from the joint, not from our contribution. So the reality is this. I don't mean... well, I guess everybody does what they can. This is a reality. But, listen to me, the follow-up, absolutely: 50_per_cent, we, compromise in the Generality's premise to be able to expropriate the use, and you see it, and you can also do so much and retract. Therefore, it is clear that we are totally in agreement that we should expand the public housing stock of this country, it is clear that here we agree, and here, therefore, some objective data, which the PTSH gives us, the result of a rigorous analysis of the needs of the population in the country of the housing stock exist, and therefore there we must go. But then another thing: the law that you say you laid on the table in housing matter of..., housing matter for young people, right? D'Avalot, we could tell. Home, I'm willing to take it all, huh? But that 2017 tells me that the initiative that 2007 with the tripartite government, was carried in this chamber did not pull forward because this government does not think it appropriate, maybe the problem is in this chamber, that at the end of the day it is deciding whether or not to pull them forward. It is that, in the end, it may also be that, among all, each school assumes its responsibility in this matter. I don't want to think that the three years... from 2007 to 2010, it's that the tripartite government didn't want the law to move forward, because you interpret it that way. So, listen, I think that, frankly, sometimes things are complex and that I want to speak in favor of the collaboration between the assemblies and the Government of the Generality. I don't want to think in any way about the opposite, that someone falls asleep in this matter; however, I think that everyone – also the gatherings, despite the figures, so they are the ones –..., it is obvious that I can't doubt that the intention is to put the maximum amount of resources and, therefore, the most willing to deal with this problem that is so significant...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.37.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.38.0	Thank you, Madam President, for your magnificence in time. And more. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about external action]] [[300-00195/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about external action, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.40.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, you all know the deep concern of the international community about the deterioration of the rule of law in the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela; resolutions of the Organization of American States and the European Parliament are proof. Here in Catalonia, the Institut Català Internacional per la Pau – the ICIP – has also denounced the degeneration of the situation in Venezuela. The violation of human rights is flagrant and is seen in the eyes of all those who do not want to look elsewhere. The policies of the Nicolás Maduro regime have led Venezuela to a humanely unsustainable situation, from a personal insecurity that is estimated at more than twenty-eight thousand murders during 2016 to the desalination of food and basic products for hygiene. The business fabric has been erased from the map, and inequality and poverty are indecent in a country with enviable natural resources. However, the indignity of the populist regime in Venezuela reaches its maximum expression in the systematic violation of the human rights of its population. The Government of the Generalitat and the Parliament of Catalonia should express their utmost solidarity with the families of demonstrators killed by a regime that does not respect the law. We must also express our utmost solidarity with all political prisoners and demand their immediate release. Let us remember today that Leopoldo López has been released from prison, but he is not at liberty; as the Venezuelan people, today Leopoldo is still without freedom. In the face of this situation of democratic deterioration, we cannot maintain complicit silence. Therefore, my first request to the Councillor with this inquiry is that, on behalf of the Government of the Generalitat, he joins the Barcelona Declaration for respect for human rights in Venezuela. This is a declaration promoted and signed by the most representative associations of Venezuelans in Catalonia, who suffer the situation of their compatriots not only from the distance, but also in their own meats, as is the case of the retirees, who have been without their pension for more than twenty months. These defaults of the Maduro regime are causing tragic situations here, here in Catalonia, situations of fatal despair that have recently been described in the Foreign Action Committee by some victims, who not only suffer to lead a dignified life, but have had to endure the shameful contempt of some of the parliamentary groups in this chamber. In the motion of the next plenary I will ask for help for these people, for these Venezuelans who are also Catalans. But, Mr. Counsellor, I now ask you for a clear commitment to human rights in Venezuela and a strong condemnation of the populist and criminal regime of Nicolás Maduro. Let me read one of the last paragraphs of this Barcelona declaration, which, as I said, the Venezuelan associations signed: "We also wish to convey to Spanish society our humble warning about the tragic and horrific consequences that inevitably end up always producing the political approaches that are tainted, focused on highlighting the differences, aimed at breaking the cohesion of the citizen and that make sides of bad and good, victims and victims. What is happening in Venezuela should serve as an example of a terrible and inhumane political-governmental practice. Counselor, this is not only the cause of Venezuela, this is the universal cause of freedom. It is a cause that calls us all and each of us, and that is why I also demand your support and commitment for Venezuela and for freedom. I am sure, Mr. Counsellor, that you will be so, but with this inquiry you would also like to raise different questions that make a direct reference to your external action. I did not repeat to him that the People's Party defends an external action that helps to deploy the powers of the Generalitat favours the interests of Catalans. We are in favour of a powerful external action in the field of economic, tourist, cultural, university internationalization, by attraction of talent, by attraction of tourism and by creation of occupation. But I know that we are firmly opposed to squandering public resources on what our Venetian Germans are warning us about: in political approaches aimed at creating differences, at breaking up citizen cohesion and at making a band of pains and good. Mr. Romeva, you led a candidacy, that of Junts for the Yes, with an electoral program to divide_months of the legislature. Twenty-two have not passed, and therefore I think we have enough perspective as to make a balance of the degree of compliment of his promises in the field of external action. To his program for divout_mesos literally promised that from his new condition of state member of the European Union Catalonia will promote a model of state, a model of federal Europe. Also, literally, "as a member of the European Union and of the United Nations, Catalonia will be adequately involved in pau missions. I promise to convert delegations into a genuine diplomatic and consular network – literally – with all the powers of a state in the international arena. At the next point they promised to create the Catalan passport and visa issue, as well as to elaborate laws like the law of international treaties – all in part, have passed twenty-two – or to strengthen the permanent representation of Catalonia before the European Union; let us remember that the European Commission has warned that it does not recognise as a valid interlocutor this permanent false representation. I believe that the only electoral promise they have fulfilled is to create more delegations and, therefore, higher ranks. We find ourselves with the generality's outer action more ailing and less influential of the past few years. No president of the Generality or head of the external action of the Generality had ever had so few meetings taking place at international level. Previous presidents were rejected by Helmut Kohl – the chancellor, who rests in pau – or by Presidents of the European Commission. Today the only politicians who want to take photographs with representatives of the Generality, therefore, are ultra-right radicals, contrary to the principles or values of Helmut Kohl and the European Union. Counselor, at times of limited resources the responsible policies try to do more with less, but the current external action of the Generality does exactly the opposite: less with more. While he has detailed sensitive social parties, they have not multiplied by others, such as the Diplomacy, delegations or trips to the foreigner of the president. But today I don't ask for the expenses, today I ask for the results, and these are very poor. We have seen that they have not completed the electoral programme, they have not achieved international recognition of independence. It was to be expected, and it's good news for the Catalan social majority. Even so, the little they have done harms the interests of Catalans: their external action does not make a hypothetical independence credible, but it does create an institutional degeneration and a social conflict in Catalonia. And in a competitive world like the present, where all regions of Europe work to attract talent, business and investment, arguments, and Diplomat, from their council or government are, in short, ammunition for the competitor. Each statement and document of the external action of the current Generality is an argument that can be used in favor of those who compete against Catalonia. The internationalization of the process is, therefore, the closing of doors to the future of Catalonia. I will give you a clear example: the European Medicines Agency. Many believe that Barcelona would be its perfect one: the People's Party believes it, the Government of Spain believes it, the Assembly of Barcelona, and certainly most parliamentary groups of this chamber. London will lose this European Medicines Agency because of an independentist referendum. In less than two years, the United Kingdom will be outside the European Union, but you promise a "catexit before October 3. Out of here no one believes the separation of Catalonia from the rest of Spain, but it is concerned that this community is led by policies that either lie to its society or are fanattized. In fact, his performance is a point in favor of the rivals of Barcelona and Catalonia. I also want to ask you, counselor, for the Catalan register abroad. The first thing I have to say is that I'm concerned that they want to condition certain rights to Catalans externally to the inscription in this register; that would be to retaliate and reprove them. For another band, I'd like you to explain to us the sense of the promotion campaign that they haven't made: what value does it make of the results, and, if possible, explain to us to what future of Catalonia makes reference to this campaign. We would also like to know whether it is true that you have been engaged with representatives of Catalan couples abroad that this register serves as a reference for a hypothetical independenceist. I would also like to see the position respected by the Generalitat's position in an institution as important for Catalonia as the House of Asia. They have left this institution unpresumptive, connecting us to a continent as important as Asia in the 21st century. The director of this house recently appeared in Parliament, and the presentation of his activities was overwhelming. Home Asia does do more with less, and makes the world look at us, more and better than for example Diplomat does. I also want to ask you about Morocco, Mr. Counselor. Morocco is a key country for many Catalan investments and businesses. You announced a trip to Morocco with the president, said to make institutional meetings; it seems that you did not get close to the meeting and cancelled the trip. It seems to be, too, Mr. Counselor, that, after all, from the hands of your members of the CUP, you have starred apropos to movements with certainly claims to the Rif. We would like to know whether you have dealt with the question of Rif at any meeting, whether you have bought yourself some type of action or support, and whether you have informed President Puigdemont and the matches that form Joints for the Yes of these contacts or possible maneuvers. In short, human rights in Venice, balance of the degree of compliment of the electoral programme in the field of external action, European Medicines Agency, the Catalan register abroad, Casa Asia and its contacts with movements with demands respect to the Rif series questions that we would like to draw in this first part of the inquiry. Thank you very much, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. It has the word the advisor Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.42.0	Well, thank you very much and good morning, President. MPs and MPs, he will advise... in any case, I thank him for coming in, and I let him say it with all frankness, because I think that, in the end, he's the one who's close and, therefore, he's the one that I think we need to be able to normalize. From this perspective, I will try to answer some of the questions and show, in any case, some stupefaction. You have started a rally, directly, on Venice, which is very legitimate; obviously, each one explains the version you have of the world in its own way, only missing. What causes me a certain confusion is that, when you ask for respect for human rights, you do so, obviously in a sloppy way. That is to say, when some of us talk about human rights, democracy and separation of powers, we do not do it according to the flag or the place where it is produced, we do it globally: we do it all the way and we do it from the world. I think, in this sense, it's important to have a vision of a little coherent. Human rights cannot be circumscribed depending on who asks them more or less friend, just like the democratic principle, just like the separation of powers. And to me it is the impression, Mr.Milián, that the party you represent, or in any case the party you are part of, has a certain partial reading about who, and how and when you suffer from certain violations. We have extensive historical experiences of what he does to the Popular Party's role in crisis management in Llatina America, and I will not be there because, in any case, he is not the object of the inquiry. But it would require a certain consistency at the time of raising certain debates and speeches. Therefore, I believe that we must always celebrate, anywhere in the world, that there are dialogues and agreements on conflicts, so that violence can never – never, ever – be the solution that can be desired and desired in any case. And, therefore, from this point of view anything that can be faced by dialogues, pacts, it seems to me that it is much better, I repeat, anywhere in the world. But because there is a dialog, there has to be a willingness to settle on a table, which seems that in some cases you have a certain difficulty. So I'm going to put this issue behind me, because I'm going to focus on the phone book of the inquiry. For what he does to external action, I repeat to him what we have said so many, and so many times: this country does not only have the need, but the obligation to have an external action on the rise. You've done some things and I'll repeat it not just some of the things you've mentioned, but others. The external representation that the country has at these moments, not only from the delegations, which, as you very well say, and I repeat, is expanding absolutely from the mark of normality, legality and necessity, is also complemented with other offices abroad that they have to see with sectoral representations from the point of view of trade, from the point of view of culture, from the point of view of the promotion of tourism, etc. It's all this thing that we've approved a long time ago, which I'm sure you've read – at least I trust – with the approval of the decree, we're doing a lot more of the functions that can last, we're doing a lot more of the organizational skills that we can develop, and we're also doing a lot more of the efficiency of these units. And I'm saying that because, man, you allow me to make a statement: you have put into question the effectiveness of external action from the point of view of the reversal. The problem is that reality is so coughing that it denies the maximum to you. Or, clearly, one more time you try to make a not only false report, but directly contrary to the most notorious evidences. You're talking about foreign investment. Listen, the year 2016 the foreign investment in Catalonia was a record, of more than 5,000_million euros. I don't know where you get the picture that the reversal is in danger because of what you call the process or as you say. That's not true, it's that it's definitely fake, it's that it's exactly the opposite. You ask that there be more compromises with fund-raising. Listen, it's that 67_percent of the scholarships that have been obtained in search of the European Union destined for the State precisely hold them, and, in any case..., researchers and researchers from Catalonia. And this obviously has to do with this projection capability that the country has, so with the knowledge that exists. And you also have a lot to see with the work that is done together with the European institutions, not against anyone, Mr.Milián: here no one is fighting against anyone, but precisely the opposite. And for what it does to the image, it seems to me that, if you for a little attention to how you have been lately, from the cultural point of view, some events, man, you will notice that of hostility – hostility – neither is there. I can talk about the Fira de Bolonya, the children's and youth's book, or the Smithsonian Folklife Festival, or about so many other initiatives linked, for example, to the internationalization of the day of the rose. Therefore, I do not only see this hostility that you read for what makes Catalonia run away from the world, but in any case I only see it in its brains. But it's that, besides that, there are other elements that are absolutely decisive. In terms of cooperation, Catalan cooperation, which is a fundamental tool of a country's external projection – what it is, also in the case of Catalonia – is especially significant not only from the point of view of efficiency, but also from the point of view of the recognition it has. You haven't talked about it, perhaps because it's an area that doesn't interest you very much; so I'll tell you that this is one of the aspects with which, from the external image that is in Catalonia, you are much more considered than some of you would surely want, as we have found, precisely, unfortunately, in certain situations at the time of searching with actors also on behalf of the State. And for what it does to concrete aspects, you have mentioned elements of the Catalan community abroad. We approved it a long time ago, and you were there..., to the law of Catalonia abroad we explained the need of a country like Catalonia to communicate more and better with the Catalan people that for various reasons – some by necessity, others by will – had to leave. And from this perspective, the register is an absolutely necessary instrument, normal to the 21st century. The services that offer the register are known and, therefore, I think you already know them, I don't think you insist. But in any case, it is at these times the tool we have at our disposal to be able to communicate with these people of the outside world, and because from the outside they can also have access to what happens in Catalonia, with absolute normality. You see some fantasies where there are no, you see some threats where in reality I only see opportunities, and you see some problems where in reality what we have is an absolute conviction that what is going on in the world is that there is an evolution that is going on before them without knowing: whether democracy, Mr. Milián, here and there; whether normalization, it is to be understood that a globalized world that wants people to interact, that people are connected, that people are difficult to connect, that is, that you are constantly doing with their internal politics and with their foreign politics. The great concern that at these times we have a lot of people in and out of the State, in and out of Catalonia, in and out of the European Union, is how it can be that the Spanish State governments one, to say so, institution or a rule, to say it more clearly, where the separation of powers that you worry so much in the case of Venice is absolutely absent. And if you want, look at any of the reports that have happened in the past: Council of Europe, the Rights International Spain, Judges for Democracy; it's the same, the one who wants, there are hundreds, of complaints about the lack of separation of powers in this state of law that is so clearly questioned. But it's more than that, in terms of image. Yesterday, the European Commission's data on the failure to comply with European laws and regulations were released. Eventually the Spanish State is the most incomplete. You, who likes to talk about laws so much, man, it is especially important that the Spanish State is the main one in the race of incomplicators. If he does, let's talk about corruption. I believe that what worries the world today is that the government of the State is unable to establish a table for dialogue or that it is about how to respond to what they call the main challenge of current democracy, a party that has nine hundred cases of corruption charges. And we don't talk about impunity in the face of crime. This is what gives the world a bad image, not that people want to freely and legitimately express themselves. Have you ever seen the state's harpsichords? I think I'd have a lot of information for my own appearance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.43.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. There's a word from Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.44.0	Thank you, President. Home, Mr. Counsellor, given the effectiveness of your external action in promoting external independence, I would say that "the state's keyposts are at your consulting office. You put medals on the attraction of investments that do not come close to you, I think you are feeling a government paralyzed by the reforms of the Government of Spain and the efforts of the Catalan society. In the first intervention I asked him for human rights in Venice, for a balance of the degree of compliment of Junts' electoral program for the Yes, for the European Medicines Agency, for the Catalan register abroad, for Casa Asia, for contacts with movements of the Rif. You didn't answer me to the king. My job is to ask him back there is to ask for a hold of accounts. I was worried about what he said about Venice. You have compared Venice to Spain, you have said that the situation in Venice is like Spain, and you have put it as an example – except that it seems to me to be an absolute ignorance – which compares Spain's situation with Germany, the same, and even worse the case of Germany. If refusing to condemn Maduro's regime is the price they are paying for the photo with the stellate of a dictator, I think it serves the cause very small. About Morocco he didn't say re. We're worried – we're worried. I don't know if you know how important Morocco is not just for Catalonia's economic interests, either, do you? , for the cooperation of Morocco with the State, with, in short, the European Union to control migratory movements. I think destabilizing that area would be a great irresponsibility. I'd like you to answer me, in the second part. As far as delegations are concerned... Certainly, there are some delegates who speak to the Catalan communication media about "ambassada" – not me, it's him. It would be good for you to clarify who you serve by giving these delegations to Catalans to foreign. Now, this summer, therefore, many Catalans will travel for tourism, for foreign trade. Who are the services that these delegations offer? Yes, we have discovered, I have to say, some officials of the delegates of the Generality, but not because these explain it to us, because they never appear in Parliament, but because the Government of the United States publishes it. Last June 22, the Foreign Agents Registration Act – FARA – report was published in Washington, D.C., which responds to transparency criteria regarding contacts between American congressmen or their staff with embassies, businesses and lobbyists. While some delegates, as I said, speak of their delegation as an embassy, the delegation of the Generality to the United States is registered as a lobby. And it's funny, because data, and names and expenses that you've never let us see respect for the contract, for example, of the Independent Diplomat lobby, they do appear respect the delegation to the United States. And there are surprising expenses. I understand that they could be normal $5,600 on the phone in a semester, huh? – these data refer to the first semester of this year, 2017 –, or 2,200_dollars on foot, 143,000_dollars on wages, this semester, or 8,800_dollars on trips. I'm telling you, they can be normal checks, huh? I don't mean to say that. But what makes me very strange is that only this delegation has been spent, the first months of the year, more than 9,200_dollars in the concept of oci– oci–: « entertainment expenses. Listen, is this a common concept for the rest of the delegations? Who are we paying for the party, Mr. Counselor? We would like to know which is the annual spending on entertainment, in the oci, of his consultancy. They can give us some idea. I see from the FARA report that one of the congressmen who may have benefited from this ocean is known for his other positions in the European Union and very, very much in favour of Vladimir Putin. It is the congressman who a few weeks ago took a tour of Europe, where he met the leader of the extreme Dutch right, Geert Wilders; with the leader of the extreme French right, Marine Le Pen, and with the Catalan leader – you have the qualification you want – Carles Puigdemont. Counselor, is the delegation of the Generality to the United States embarrassing public resources lobbying to get photos that put Puigdemont at the same level as Geert Wilders and Marine Le Pen? I'm done, Counselor. I asked him about many questions that had remained pending in the first intervention. Here I have added the subject of delegations, the concept of 'entertainment'. And I would like to make it – finally, President – two more topical points: on the electoral programme you also talk about increasing the commercial opening of Catalonia in the world. He knows that the deal between Canada and the European Union is currently on the table, which has rejected the majority support of the European Parliament, except for those political parties such as the French National Front or Podemos. And I'd like to know what you think of this deal, the CETA, and the benefits we think it has for Catalan peppers that have good products and good services that they could export. And finally, yesterday we learned of the sentence of nine and a half years in prison for corruption to Brazilian President Lula da Silva, and in this sense I would like to know if you will propose...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.45.0	Mr. Milián, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.46.0	I'm done. The question is whether he will propose that I withdraw the International Prize from Catalonia to Lula da Silva.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.47.0	He's run out of time. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, Mr. Milián. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.48.0	Well, Mr. Milián, the truth is that I recognize you with the extraordinary ability to sweep naps with cols, with cebes, with fathers, with what you want. With one morning: it's that no longer glues, it's that no one is believed anymore. It is that, of course, when you listen to leaders of your party, like Mr. Major Oreja, to say that why you must condemn the franchise when a lot of people have lived it with normality and that, moreover, even they have lived it absolutely with positive aspects, listen to me, that you make any comparison with the extreme right from here, from the world, do not hold for place, Mr. Milián. And so we all know where we're coming from, we all know where you're coming from, we all know who you're with and, therefore, from that perspective, that you want to compare Mr. Puigdemont with other political formations, when, in fact, both at the ideological level and at the level of political space you're with who you are, it's really absolutely delusional. That said, you're trying to – you're trying to – that maybe someday someone will buy that message. I don't think they understand yours here anymore, or, of course, society. According to you, I would very much like to be able to dispose of 60,000_million euros that, for example, have dedicated themselves to rescuing the bank, and this is not a problem of Catalan independence; or of the 1,400_million euros that you have given to Mr Florentino Pérez for the Castor; or of the 3,700_million dollars of Madrid radials; or of the 65,000_million euros that you have asked for, dilapidated from pensions, lightning in the last few years. If you want to talk about the efficiency of public management. This is one of the reasons why a lot of people, also outside, are trying to explain why this doesn't work, why the State doesn't work: because you don't just allow things to be done that fall and that, as they say, are so important, at the time of truth do exactly the opposite. Therefore, I repeat, you have a hard problem of credibility, which seems to me to be seen here and out. But above all there is a problem of respect, already: there is a problem of respect for what the State means, what democracy means and what the ability to manage problems means. And when you basically criticize the external response... I'll give you some examples. Fix's, if you make the least effort to read some of the documents that are coming out, articles or reflections, various editorials that are coming out in different international media, there is a common denominator factor: all identify the incapacity of the State and, therefore, also of the Government, and particularly of Mr Rajoy, to read, hear, interpret and give answer and solution to what is a peaceful, legitimate, massive and unstoppable demand of the people in Catalonia. This inability to hear reality is what causes concern, not another. It doesn't worry an urn, it doesn't worry that people come to the streets peacefully to manifest. What worries, and much, is that from the state there is no understanding and from the state they do everything possible to ensure that the democratic will of the people is fully respected, that's what worries. Now, obviously you can follow your reference means, you can continue to build the reports you want, the fake news that interest you; this does not mean that you gain neither credibility nor influence. In fact, it is obvious that its influence in Catalonia is what it is, the rest of the State also every time is what it is. But above all at the international level each time they are less credible. The respect that today is yours of what the Spanish State is, not Catalonia anymore but in the conjunction of the countries of the world, clearly you should worry about it. And this is not the fault of the independence movement or people who want to vote in Catalonia – no longer say independenceists, say anyone who wants to vote. I absolutely agree with you: there is an issue of image that concerns you. But I guarantee it: if you know how to read a little the world, you'll understand that it's not democracy that makes it, it's nine hundred cases of corruption, it's political irresponsibility, it's impunity, it's null and void separation of powers. That's for, here and out. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.49.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Romeva. [[Asking the Government about Islamophobia]] [[300-00196/11]] The point of the order of the day is: inquiry to the Government on Islamophobia, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose it, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.50.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the question we are asking in this plenary about Islamophobia is, in a way, a continuation of the question about school segregation that we have made in the past plenary, because for us talking about Islamophobia is also talking about the speech and the imagination that, with other ingredients and policies of this government, therefore support segregation in our schools and in our barrels, and therefore they pass a project of cohesive country, so we bet. In any case, and as a follow-up to that inquiry, we plant Islamophobia as the accumulation of a bunch of clixes in a negative injury against Muslims. It is, in principle, a form of religious intolerance, but it is expressed from a simple mental or emotional attitude to the application of stereotypes that support discrimination and that can be expressed, too, in forms of attitude and verbal and physical violence. Only the Ciutadana Platform against Islamophobia denounces this year three hundred Islamophobs incidents at the conjunction of the State. We see the increase in hate crimes against the Muslim population in our home: the clear example, or paradigmatic, of aggression against a pregnant woman, less than a year ago, in full day to the streets of Barcelona, or the venous mobilizations against worship centers in Nou Barris, Carmel, Hospitallet, and the data that brought us a survey of the Barcelona Assembly, which explained that to a 21_percent of barcelonas and barcelonas the annoyance that girls wear to school and a 19_percent that wear to the street. Among many other data, or perhaps as a paradigmatic example, only a few days ago, in relation to a fact passing on to Gavà, to a shooting, published The Newspaper, I think that in a clear example of Islamophobia... I gave the news, said: "Two local police officers were wounded in a shooting against Gavà's tantator. According to the witnesses, the author of the events is a skinny individual, with a beard, who fled with a car to Sitges, used a long weapon, possibly a kalaixnikov. This is the information The Newspaper gave to few hours of the fetuses. One time identified the author, it turned out to be Jorge Casas Cordero, forty-four years old, a Spanish national, residing in Calafell, and that the Mossos link with a case of intrafamily violence; neither Magrebí, nor beard, nor Kaláixnikov. This is, in a way, the result of years of Islamophobic policies, which they have to see, in a way, with the socio-economic order established after the fall of the USSR, and which after 11 September, in their war against terror, therefore, has come to build or feed the idea of the Muslim as the "others, eh? , as the difference, as the one that does not form part of our western context of capitalist white society. Anyone who has read Edward Said must know perfectly what I am referring to: the Orientalist construction, and as our history, the history of Europe is full, from the Croats and the expulsion of the Moors to colonization and decolonization in the 19th and 20th centuries, of phenomen who have built this idea of "others" and which somehow leads us to the eternal monster of anti-Semitism in Europe. Islamophobia, today, can probably be considered, too, as a form of anti-Semitism. In fact, Cora Alexa Døving, a scientist from the Norwegian Centre for the Study of the Holocaust, set up, precisely, certainly similarities between Islamophobia, or the European Islamophobic speech today, and pre-Nazi anti-Semitism. How is Islamophobia built? Basically, Islamophobia is built to hear Islam as the only one, that is, to reduce to a single concept, to droughts, therefore, 1,400_million people living in fifty-four countries, on four continents, where the Muslim religion is majority. A religion, you know, or a belief, in which there are Sunnis, with its different schools, with two visions as different as the retrograde view of Wahhabism, promoted by Saudi Arabia, oil and the conjunction of Western capitalist powers, or the almost socialist visions that were born with rebirth, with Islamic Nahda; the Shiites, the Druze, the Alevis, the Alawites, there are Islamists, not Islamists, there are atheists. In short, the plurality among these 1,400_million people is more than obvious. Would we accept, in some way, the Westerners, who are speaking of all the Westerners, of all the inhabitants of the countries of Christian tradition, as one unit, as if we were all the same? Apparently you're obviously not. On the other hand, Islam is protested as a unit, as a negative unit, because, in addition, we always link Islam to violence, terrorism, women's ownership, the imposition of the old, the underprivileged for life. Obviously not available for time, to disassemble all these clichés, but only with data from the United Nations on crime and social rape can say that Muslim societies..., with many defects, but appear as the most inclusive and peaceful societies, that is, those that have less suicide taxes, fewer rapes and fewer firearms. On the other hand, we continue to perceive Islam as a negative unit and, moreover, irreformable, insimitable, which sees us as Muslims as insimitable, in terms of democratisation or Western society. You see where, exactly the same speech that was built in relation to the Jew in the years ahead of 1945. It is, of course, a very complex phenomenon, but if 'the law is allowed, I think that we in Catalonia, under the concept of 'I am building, in a way, also, this target, this imant which includes all the clixes and all the elements negatius in this construction of the 'others, no? It does not cease to be curious as a word that in Catalan, therefore, has donated so much game, of everyday concepts, such as the « babat de moro, les « figes de moro; the toponymy, such as the leap of Moro, Mora d'Ebre ; the folklore, with the Moro giant, the Moros and Christians, but curiously, in the common language, today, the concept« moro serves, basically, to speak of the '« others, no? , of the difference and of that which somehow remains like a city of second to our society. So much so that I speak Arabic, Amazic, Paztu, or Catalan or Castle, because I was born here, and so much so that I have very different physical traits, from those from Morocco to Afghanistan; so much so that you believe very different, we have a people, in Catalonia, to which a rule of second to which we consider that you are living, right? And that's why we, from this perspective, from this construction that was made of the clix in the context of the war on terror... that we, like CUP, somehow come to put this debate on the table. Elias Canetti said that "the most perverse feeling I know is hatred of the oppressed, as if their situation were somehow the consequence of their treachery. And it is from this perspective that the CUP feels that we are called upon to intervene, not in defense of a religion, let's say, beyond our object, but to describe a situation of oppression that is experienced in the Catalan Countries the year 2017 to this minority, to this moron, to this other one that is being built in our home and that is being objected to structural violence. Someone said, in this faristol, a few days ago, that "it can't be democrat without being anti-fessistic. We are anti-fessists and we understand that this struggle is, today, one of the first in the struggle for democracy in our home. And here you see the question to the government, or ask the government: what are the policies that this government does to fight against Islamophobia? And it develops this political government that could be entitled to "Islamophobics"? And, therefore, we would ask this Government: do you share this analysis that we are doing, do you share this speech, do you share this priority, the need to fight Islamophobia? What's going on with the worship centers, for example? What about mosques and worship centers in our home? Do we really think it's integrative that all mosques are playing AP-7 or an industrial polygon? Is that the concept? The transmission that we want to give from the idea of Islam? What must always be left on the margins of our society? What speeches does this government make to break the clix of this idea of negative, inimitable unity of Muslims and Muslims? Is it normal that our public television every time you want to talk about immigrants puts a woman with a veil? Is it that there are no quick women who are Catalans and who are viscous... and that we can convey the idea, effectively, that they are not immigrants, that they are not transitory to our country, but that they are part of the culture of this country? What do we explain, to the schools, of positual, of Islam? What do our school curricula say? What do we explain about philosophy or Islamic science to our schools? Why we study Latin literature and all medieval literature in Christian Europe and, in change, we do not know about life or culture in Catalonia Nova and the rest of the Catalan Countries during the Moorish Presence. Why don't they teach us to recite the precious verses of erotic poetry of Ibn Jafadja, poet of Alzira of the 12th century? What, that wouldn't fit, all that, with the official denied speech of Islam? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.51.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.52.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, Catalonia, that's what we call ourselves– ah, not the vein–, it's a cobbled country, isn't it? , we live with different origins, processes, cultures, traditions and also – also – different religious creeds. The Catalan society is diverse, open and tolerant, even so we like to see ourselves; a society that, if we talk about themes, therefore, about creeds, is formed by agnostics, by atheists, by practitioners of some religion or, simply, believe that they are not practitioners. In Catalonia, citizens live together from up to thirteen different religious denominations, this is our reality, and this coexistence, mostly – and I want to say this: "mostly – it is harmonious and civic. But we've worked, we'll work, and we'll keep working because that's the best thing we can say, huh? This is the general portrait of our society, but we are also conscious... and therefore, it does not happen that there are, therefore, acts of discrimination for reasons of belief, this is a reality that we cannot store, or religious practices. And like the government, we're on top of it and we're working because that's not the way it is. To give an example, and following the line of this inquiry, during the past year, the Squadron Seam has learned of thirteen incidents that they have to see with discrimination because of creeds or religious practices, if of these falling Islamophobic. These are reported elements; that doesn't mean there's no more, does it? Now I'm talking about concrete complaints, and this is the xifra that has been given to me and that, therefore, I understand that it is the right one. These incidents of falling Islamophob may take different forms and may also have different intensities. The most common are attacks – and when I speak, therefore, of these complaints... – against Islamic worship centers and protests against the opening of us – you quoted it, this is a reality. And of attacks or attacks on Muslim people, you quoted one, I quote another: the 2017 event, in which different people made various comments and insults to fall racist and Islamophobic, too, to the director of Participation and Co-existence in Badalona, right? , Fatima Taleb, and this case came out in the light and forcefully, because of her condition of director and, therefore, her visualization. But it's obvious that this, like the Administration, but not as society, we can't even allow ourselves to be tolerated. Other forms of Islamophobia are more subtle, as you mentioned, aren't they? , more complicated to report, harder, surely..., so, this, they're more subtle. And, therefore, they translate into difficulties, in some cases– you haven't talked about it, but I think it's also worth talking about – to access certain places of work; to be able to lodge some habitats, and this is a reality that I, when I go through the territory, also explain to me, is there. And this subtle Islamophobia, we could say, or not declared, in some way, is much more common and, at the same time, much harder to quantify, but equally negative or equally harmful. And, therefore, if we want a free country, the one I started saying, just, we have to work to eradicate any type of discriminatory practice, and therefore, in this area, the religious environment, also work there. The action of the Government – you asked me – in the struggle against Islamophobia is framed in which I believe that..., we take very clearly what the State says, in its article 40.8, in which it says: "Public powers must promote the equality of all people, with independence from origin, nationality, sex, race, religion, social condition or sexual orientation. The government, therefore, combats all forms of religious hatred, also Islamophobia, also anti-Semitism, as well as Christianity and other expressions of rebuff to religious collectivities. And that's why we have pushed what the Barometer is about religion and the management of its diversity, which is a pioneering study and which lets you know what it's like to perceive, huh? What we say, not just the actions that can be denounced, the actions that can be seen, but also how it is perceived. And the 2016 edition shows a society that is each time more aware of the importance of having certain knowledge about the characteristics of different confessions. A third of the polls say they don't want to have a mosque around the house, which we say, and that worries us, logically. And, therefore, this is translated, then, into these tensions that you quoted at the time of making, so, nine mosques in our country, in which..., it seems to me that you expressed it with this "all about the AP-7." So, yeah, here's where the same barometer tells us, with this third part of our population, brings us here. Most Catalans believe that public institutions and religious denominations should work more closely than in the present. In change, this... this is a positive element. And they show that there is an increase in support for policies of management of religious diversity. And this, too, is an element that I value positively and that, logically, the Government is working on. Finally, the results of the barometer also tell us that it is possible to deduce a stability around 5_per_cent in the name of people who felt discriminated against by religious reasons; a 5_per_cent is a high percentage, from our people and, therefore, is here where to do work, as you mentioned, right? Discrimination by religious motives is something transversal, making specific plans to fight strictly Islamophobia has some positive elements, but it also has some elements, which I want to share with you, which may have some risks. We could generate, in a certain way, an increase in perception of discrimination on the part of the Islamic community; we could retruce, we could contribute – and I believe that these are elements, too, that we should put them on the table – to radicalization on the part of the Islamic community, in the measure that they provide arguments for movements to fall extremist. And I think I need to do a lot of background work to generate, so what are positive elements and that, therefore, we are fleeing this situation. Therefore, the government is in favour of including the actions of the struggle against Islamophobia in a more general framework of prevention and all forms of discrimination for religious reasons. So, what are the actions that the government is taking against Islamophobia? Miri, actions for the detection of crimes linked to Islamophobia, and here the Mosso d'Esquadra rely on a specific service to detect and prosecute all sorts of hate crimes and discrimination. And in 2016, sixty-seven consultations or complaints were handled. Prevention, awareness-raising and awareness-raising actions also promoted by the Government: the Mosso d'Esquadra, together with the Department of Education, two long-term awareness-raising programmes aimed at secondary students of the educational centres in Catalonia on hate crimes and discrimination. And in this sense there were 241 speakers, from the workshop on hate crimes and discrimination, and 189 representations on the prevention of discriminatory conduct. Also, with the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia and the Public Prosecutor's Office specializing in hate crimes and discrimination in Barcelona, a new format on hate crimes and discrimination directed at police officers has been launched. And so, with the collaboration of the Generality, different days of awareness against the phenomenon of Islamophobia have also been celebrated. Therefore, they are training, awareness-raising activities, intended for different professional groups, which we believe are necessary to do so. The Government has also developed various guidelines on the management of religious diversity in various areas, such as the public street, educational centres, health services, prison services and cements. And there is also an advisory and follow-up service to the congregations and religious communities, for which you spoke, right? , of these situations that occur in some municipalities in matters of management of religious diversity and, more particularly, in relation to Islamic communities. We have also pushed the Barometer on religion and on the management of its diversity, because what is key, also, to be able to act on it, is to have knowledge, and real knowledge. And as I see I've run out of time for my first intervention, we're still talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.54.0	Thank you, President. And thank you, Counselor, for the answer, that we have followed carefully and that we thank you, for yours, let us tell you, deepened, extended and comprehensive. In any case, let's think..., there were two questions, about the table: one is about which active policies the government does, and the other is, somehow, to make a certain self-criticism or self-analysis about whether the government could also be making Islamophobic policies, right? And I'll give you some examples of this second level, or at least agree with our perception. In the periodic reports of the human rights protection bodies on the Spanish State, one of the data on the table – before Councillor Romeva spoke of Rights International Spain, but also Amnesty International – is the question of acting on racist criteria, and in many cases Islamophobs, of the security forces and bodies of the State in the identifications, isn't it? This concept of "state security forces and forces" is also clearly covered by the Squadre Mosso Coso de Mossos. In fact, one of the most famous complaints on this subject is from a young man from Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Mohamed, català, born here, but not white, and who has been objected to in this sense of repeated identifications that have even brought him to file a complaint and, at these times, to keep the case before the European Court of Human Rights. It's true that it was an identification made for the National Police Corps, but it's also true that when he tried to file the complaint with two police commissioners of the Squadron Mosses, this complaint was not collected by the Squadron Mosses because of Islamophobic police activity. You have made some kind of plan on this issue and on some type of program, but we would like to know which concrete policies you are developing to ensure that, within the Squadre Mosso Cos, ethnic profile criteria are not used to proceed with identifications and actions in the field of public security. And we are still in the realm of security, one of the realms in which precisely the war against terror wants to rip the image of the Muslim population, or of the non-white population, into this concept that we are putting on the table, right? We have assessed sufficiently the protocol for the detection of gihadism promoted by the Department of Education, in relation to the classrooms of Catalonia, a protocol developed jointly for the Department of Education and the Department of Interior. Does the government consider this to be the path? From the outset, to hear that the teachers must act as police officers in the classroom, this would be the first questioner. But I left it a little politically incorrect, to generate a certain political debate, and I will give it two dice: to the Catalan countries in 2016 thirty-three women died; well, they did not die, they were murdered, there are thirty-three feminicides, and only until the fever of this 2017 eleven more died, they were killed – eleven more. Is there a protocol in the classroom to detect future abusers and killers of women? No, no, Second, the only recent moment that Catalonia has experienced is the painful development of a Germanwings aircraft loaded with passengers. Is there a protocol to detect future profiles that can commit an atrocious action like this in the classrooms? No, no, I've given him real data about murders, murders of Catalans and Catalans, about those who don't practice early detection protocols in classrooms. And then why do we do it with Muslims? I mean, why do we think it's a priority, in this terrorism, that it didn't cause death in our house, to use this early detection criteria in our classrooms? Must it not be or are we not at risk that this protocol has a disproportionate, stigmatizing, discriminating impact on our young people in the classroom and that it only serves, in the end, to create more injustice and more violence? Rights International Spain, precisely, to its report of 2017 puts it on the table, not in relation to the protocol of the Department of Education, but in relation, let us say, to a similar measure promoted by the Spanish Ministry of the Interior. We are concerned, we are very concerned about Gihadist terrorism, and we are also very concerned about the disproportion and disfocus on this issue. And I'll set you another example, won't I? Two French gihadists joined Charlie Hebdo in 2015 and killed twelve people. Some days, three Muslim students were murdered in North Carolina by a young white atheist. Did these two phenomena have the same media impact? Did these two phenomena generate the same solidarity on the part of all communities? We think it's not, that it's not reacting the same way. Therefore – and I finish – we do not think of it as a question of interreligious violence or of violence against religions; we think of it as a question of oppression between social groups that are perceived as a religion, because in the end, ultimately, the concept that we tried to convey to it affects Muslims who are Muslims or people who are not Muslims but who are perceived as Muslims. More to see, let's say, with this political concept that is distilled from the Azores trio and its attack on Iraq until the Gavà incident that laid it to the beginning. It is a question of cultural racism, and that we think that it serves, basically, to fuel hate crimes and that it pretends to be a justification, a pretext for a totally unjustifiable international policy that it wants to maintain the injustices and inequalities of the past. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.56.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, we may not agree on a hundred per cent, but I do have to tell you that a good part of what you said is true, and here it exists, so... you expressed it very well when you were talking about the media impact, right? In the field..., I now make a comparison: there has been talk on many occasions of the glass floor respecting women, that in some olympics there are the same award-winning men as women and, at the time of truth, photographs, information are for men and not for women. Certainly – certainly – the deal that we as a society give in the..., so, to what you explained, these murders, it's different, huh? : If these come from areas of Islam or from religious motivations, we can say..., or not, and I also come up with another element of injustice in this area: not only here; listen to me, it sounds different and repeats different in the communication media if some murders of these characteristics are produced in Paris that if they are produced in the third world, and the murders, death, bestiality remains the same. And, therefore, it is obvious that, like society, here we have a great way to go, right? In the other matter that you mentioned to me. He used to quote me all about masters acting like cops. I haven't told him about this, I've told him exactly what awareness is about non-discrimination for religious reasons, and I think that we also need to put this into value in a very clear way, the work that is being done, right? And he didn't mention it, but I also want to quote it, all that is the value of the information that is given from the barometer, that allows us to know the reality of our country and, therefore, how to address this situation of discrimination, of visualization of the world. And so I think there's another area that we haven't talked about, but it's relevancy, that it's support for actions driven by the same entities, huh? , where we have given support – and it is relevant – to the same Muslim communities, destined for a better knowledge of the Islamic religion in Catalonia and of the connection of this community to its life. Therefore, here is a great work, which I want to do as a manifesto, made for the General Directorate of Religious Affairs, one can highlight, for example, the days of open doors to the Islamic oratories, to the iftars opened to the community, or various seminars and round tables. I think here, so, it's good, too, and it's necessary. Or the collaboration that is also carried, I mean that it works, from different religions, and, therefore, in this sense of proximity of knowledge. Because surely one of the great evils we have, and you mentioned it, is that we put it on what we don't know, and when there's a lack of knowledge here, it produces an accent that we don't like, we don't want, and that, therefore, we have to eliminate. Therefore, listen to me, the government believes that it must work in a transversal form in different materials, in different areas. It is obvious that I have to work in the school environment, it is obvious that I have to work in the police field, in the sense that I give it before, therefore, that there is no discrimination, as you also mentioned, for a reason of origin, conviction or belief. And, therefore, working to make a cross-cutting struggle, we could say, to eliminate all that discrimination is and is the phenomenon of Islamophobia. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.57.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. [[Decree Law 3/2017, of 27 June, of urgent measures for the celebration of elections to the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia and constitution of its governing bodies]] [[203-00010/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 3/2017 of June 27, of urgent measures for the holding of elections to the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia and the constitution of its governing bodies. In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Santi Vila, Business and Knowledge Adviser, will present this decree to the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.58.0	Very good morning, very honorable Madam President of Parliament. Before I begin my intervention, let me say a few words of condolence, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia and as a Business and Knowledge Councillor, for the figure of Joaquim Molins, a person with a history of compromise with the world of the enterprise, and also with the Administration as a Councillor at the time of public works and also of the Enterprise, which, therefore, without any doubt must be remembered and honoured here today in his parliamentary office. I now take the word to answer the justification for the need for the validation of Decree Law 3/2017 of 27 June of urgent measures for the celebration of elections to the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia and the constitution of its governing bodies, recalling, as it could not be in any other way, that effectively in the question of the chambers of commerce we find ourselves with institutions of a very long tradition, in some cases more than a hundred years: it is the case of Barcelona, Sabadell, Tarragona, Reus, and also Palamós. And in this sense, too, so, they are part of a long list of antecedents, of precedents, huh? : the commercial board or the Consolat de Mar in series, but also business entities linked to the defense and promotion of the industry, of many and many activities that are paid without any doubt in a very long time. On the convenience and the need for the preservation of the camera texture, I think there is a broad consensus, as it was just in time to proceed with this validation. It is obvious that they continue to play a very important role from the point of view of the representation, of the defense, of the promotion, of the interests of the industry, of the navigation, of the conjunction of the world of the servants, and that, therefore, it is absolutely necessary that the Government of Catalonia, in use of its exclusive competitions, can follow, therefore, guaranteeing, eh? , that all the processes in this electoral case and all that is expected from the foundational point of view of the chambers is able to end with normality. In this sense, therefore, I take this initiative as a timely initiative, which must be done in order to meet the need for a hard term, eh? , these electoral processes and this renewal in the governing bodies, but that will also, therefore, be accompanied, and it is learned from all of you, for a legislative initiative that the Government of Catalonia and the Department of Enterprise, in which I have just incorporated, has been working for many months, with the competition of many of you, and that I trust that in the proper weeks, first of September, it can be a public exhibition so that, in the end, you can start your appeal, your parliamentary process with all normality and with the contributions that you consider appropriate. Therefore, ultimately, with regard to the camera world, recognition of its mission, recognition of its current transcendence, and recognition, too..., and underlining that we act because the Government of Catalonia, through the Statute, has full, exclusive competences in relation to the camera world. And, consequently, two instruments: one to validate a decree to make possible the celebration of elections, and the other, the legislative initiative in the form of a bill that we will be able to make available to us from early September. Well, I don't want to go any further than the imprescindible in describing the purposes of this decree's validation. It is important to bear in mind that we regulate the necessary measures to be able to put an end to some electoral processes, some elections that are absolutely regulated by the standard mark indicated by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, and that in this sense it has already determined, as you know, the opening of the electoral process; an electoral process that has to be held between October 2, 2017 and September 30, 2018. In this sense, it is absolutely necessary, necessary the impulse of the sequence of legal acts that must make it possible and with all guarantees. And in this sense, therefore, the chambers must have adapted their rules of internal law to the new legal framework, and they must have requested approval from the guardianship body, which, as you know, is the advice of the Enterprise. As for the decree, if I may, I described them very briefly what we are talking about. Two articles, in this case, of Law 14/2002, of 27 June, of official chambers of commerce, industry and navigation, which basically affect four very concrete aspects, are basically amended. In the first place, the modification of the articles they define, which describe the composition of the plenums of the trading chambers; the variation in the name of vowels, which will be between god and sixty. It will be the inner rules of each chamber that determine the exact name of vowels. As you know, at this point it was between dinosaur and sixty-nine. So, there's a revision at the bottom of the vowel name. It modifies the group of vowels that make up the plenums, incorporating there, as a novelty, the group of vowels that represent the companies that commit to donating voluntary contributions to the chamber to help its financing. In this way it is determined and precise the composition in three large groups: the voices representing the economic sectors, the vocals of the second group, and the rest of the vocals, which, like the dic, assume this novelty, and which incorporate the representatives of entrepreneurs who compromise some type of economic contribution. Second of all, also the modification of the limit on the number of terms of office of the presidents of the chamber, huh? In particular, intervention is dealt with in Article 26.1. The decree incorporates a maximum limitation of two consecutive terms. As you know, at these times the regulations provide for up to three. There's another thing that's going to arbitrate, too, a transition situation, huh? , which makes it possible for those who are already in office at these times to exercise these functions of presidency to opt equally for this dual mandate. Thirdly, the form of voting and electoral processes is also modified and concrete. This is an absolutely urgent need. The voting exercise has to be either face-to-face or electronic, huh? – or face-to-face or electronic –; it is ultimately a compromise to make possible the incorporation of electronic voting, ultimately much better suited to regulation, reality, progress and transparency requirements than all of you complain about us and that citizenship also complains about us. A statement, which you have to see, in this case, with the vote by postal mail: which will only be enabled if the electronic vote cannot last. This is a new, important covetousness, and it seemed to us to be close to our modern times. Therefore, in the end, we exercise face-to-face or electronic voting, and the exercise of postal voting only in those cases where it is not possible to guarantee, effectively, that there will be an opportunity to exercise the electronic voting. Finally, he is a fan, also, of all the strictly necessary considerations that must be taken into account by the chambers for the elaboration of the electoral census and the necessary adaptations of all that are the rules of the inner regime of each chamber. In short, four modifications that are absolutely essential and that imply the minimum legislative change in order to be able to choose the vowels of the plenums of the chambers of commerce and to do so, also with absolute guarantee. I understand and appreciate that the consensus on what these changes are facing, so it has to be seen, precisely, with the identification that we are undertaking some type of absolutely instrumental modification, which is derived from the fixed need of the electoral call, and that, therefore, the reflection of foundations on a model is still pending, huh? , about what we expect from the trade camres of our modern times, some camres that in our country, as you know, have a very different reality, both for their dimensions, for their ambition, as for their level of implementation in the various territorial weaves where at these times they act. This is an absolutely necessary discussion, but it seems to me that it will be opportune for us to face, therefore, the holiday weekend, when we can among all have generated a new dynamic, eh? , of complicitys between the various parliamentary groups and the department which in this case holds the competence, I insist, exclusive, according to Article 125 of the Statute of Autonomy. Well, this is, therefore, a description of the measures. Allow me to thank you very sincerely for the complicity that makes it possible for this validation to be carried out effectively and that, therefore, we can do it from the certainty that quickly, eh? the Chambers can activate their obligations to convene electoral processes with guarantees and with the adjustments that we have convinced were absolutely necessary. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.59.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Vila. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.60.0	President, Members, Members, we also want to add to former Councillor Joaquim Molins' record, as the Councillor said. So, here I leave it, about this Faristol. Counselor Vila, first of all, comes out and is uncertain in the new stage that is taking place, that we sincerely expect it to be short, too, I will say, because we consider it perhaps best for everyone at this time. But, well, I think while you're at it, so, I hope you're still sure what we find. I think he had a good start in office, because, in fact, only a week ago, so he presented the Catalan pact for the industry with a certain consensus, and today he will find another consensus in a decree; a decree that today we ask to validate and that we do it by responsibility – more than by complicity, by responsibility – as we have done other times in this legislature, at least from the Enterprise. But we don't think you should let yourself be carried by a mirage. The activity in legislative initiatives these divided_months has followed, to the advice that you will now start to know, from Enterprise, therefore, has been enough minsa, has not exactly been very intense. That is why it seems that, in some way, it has come to the fate of coming in and coming to approve the second decree that in divided months, therefore, the company council has validated. Two decrees that, by the way, basically what they do is adapt, allow initiatives from others and that we believe that in this case, therefore, it is obvious that we must approve. I am advancing it, in case you don't know, that up to a department that is not a priority for this government, and that the only initiative of certain people, as I said before, that will be the pact for industry. And it's a pact that started on the part of civil society in 2012, and that we from the opposition... all the opposition, so, we tried... and, in fact, we managed to push it, because it was approved and accepted by the government. Therefore, welcome this agreement, but I think that in all this, therefore, it is wrong. In this agreement, on the other hand..., we also think that the change, therefore, that brought it here is certainly not due to the lack of activity of the Department of Enterprise, but more than this appointment is due, therefore, to the needs of the loyalties that there is or that the Government requires. But, well, welcome anyway. Let's go to the decree. We will validate the modification of an autonomous law to adapt it to state law. A modification that will allow, as he said before – I will not repeat it again – the beginning of the period of electoral processes in Catalan chambers. But I'm gonna make a little incisor, 'cause we're a little bewildered. Last week you presented, with all the possible theatricalization, a legal text that had exceptional powers to carry out a consultation on October 1. This text, in its article 3, describes us that, based on these superpowers, it will be above the current legal framework and will abolish, in practice, the Constitution and the Statute of Autonomy. Today we see a decree that has no superpowers, which adapts a Catalan law to a national law, with a humble objective, which is that it is possible to open an electoral process to the chambers of commerce. So, well, the super-powerful law that you presented will not be able to open any electoral process, but this humble decree of today will certainly be able to do so. He won't do October 1, but he'll do October 2. So we'll have an open process. I hope that in some way, therefore, they want to open other processes that we are asking for a few months ago, which are more important. Conclusion: Superpower laws sometimes get used to being irrelevant outside the democratic legal framework. And the cases go as we did today, I think very well, with respect to this democratic legal framework. I'm holding that incisor. Still, there is a small criticism that I want to convey to you, Mr.Vila: you talk about that..., or at least to the agreement of the government it speaks of that this is the front of the pre-project of the Law of Cambras. I'm asking you not to go into the same rhetoric that Councilman Baiget already had, because you've had to take these words away many times. I don't think this is more than what it is: a humble law that adapts is precisely that. I'm saying, because to the government agreements that we've read, or that we've read the other day, at least, I don't know if it's the government's press, so, yes, it's about this front room of the law of camels, and I hope it doesn't. Well, I won't go into details of what he modifies, because I think he's already talked about it, counselor. We're asking him... because I think that with this minute, or with a minute, we could explain our position. Yes, we are asking you..., that we have many doubts, that we would like you to explain to us a lot in detail, so, what will be your action to govern these months that remain, and that is why we ask you to come and compare yourself to the Commission of Enterprise as best you can. And, well, there we'll know if it's really true what it's said, that now, so, what's most important to the government of the generality is silence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.61.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The words of Ms. Alicia Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.62.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Counselor, good morning too. As I was saying, we're doing something easy today, aren't we? It's the first time we have a little debate in this Parliament, as a Business and Knowledge Advisor, and it's true that it's for the validation of a decree that we all agree with. We agree that the year 2010 was the year of the last elections to the Catalan chambers; it should have been 2014 and, therefore, we are already carrying a certain gap with these elections that should have been made. Of course, the cameras want to update their teams, to update their projects. I don't mean to say that the presidents are changing, but there is a lot of room for change. And, therefore, seven years with a certain immobilism, so it is probably causing some problems. Could we have avoided this decree of law..., the validation of this decree of law that we make correct because they can make choices next year? Yes, surely, if we were all able to present a law of camels in this Parliament, which is what we really need. Probably, therefore, there have been other priorities and I believe that others... – the Member who preceded me said so – and, therefore, we have not been able to hold this law, which we would have liked to have been able to discuss calmly and calmly. Now, it's also true that if we have to bring a correct law in which we can't do any reflection or analysis, then better let it be and make a decree that I can, at least, make some urgent choices. And then we'll bring the law. Considering that maybe this legislature will be short, so, look, at least they'll make the elections and then, when it's, uh... let's hope, the bill, that comes into this Parliament. Therefore, welcome the decree of the law, because it covers a need that the Catalan chambers have to adapt, it is true, to the state legislation. Well, think about it, Mr. García, which we can share; it doesn't just happen with this decree, which I don't know if it's mini or big, but in any case, it happens in many things. We're in pieces of law where they're constantly referring to state legislation, so as not to contradict it. I mean, this is a reality that we find our deputies and that it's also worth it that those who listen to us know it, that sometimes, on one side, so we're trying to break with Spanish law and make a new order, and constantly in the questions of law that will come to pass later is trying not to get out of that Spanish legal system, because that's what..., that's where the Catalan law is located, isn't it? Therefore, yes, it is true, some contradictions, as could be this very decree of the law. But in any case, let's focus on what it is about, which is that the Catalan chambers must make elections; this decree will allow you to do so, because it adapts to state legislation, and therefore we will give it support. Last but not least – I said before to the advisor in private – give him the welcome to this councillor. I have to say that Councillor Baiget left the list high, because he was a good advisor with the spokespersons, he always had..., he always had a lot of proximity with us – meetings, meetings in each of the areas – and we would like to be able to keep it, because it is a council that deals with very important issues that for many parliamentary groups are a priority: universities, industrial fabric... And so, counselor, I'm already holding my hand because we can maintain this relationship that we had with Councilman Baiget and that we can do folded things, as Mr. García said, so the national plate for industry, but also the university that is just beginning, or the law of trade, which in theory will have to be approved properly. Therefore, welcome, and we hope, therefore, that we can work just as well as we have done with your predecessor. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.63.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.64.0	Thank you, President. Counselling, Members, Members, allow me to start by adding to the memory of former Councillor Molins, and also allows me to'start by congratulating him..., congratulating him or accompanying him in the feeling, I don't know exactly what it is that he should do, because given the circumstances is never known, counting that more than you are from the round lobby and I assume that you don't have much to do with it; but, well, that's the same, that's a theme... Likewise, as the Member of Parliament Romero has done, I am also attached to what she has explained about the relations we have had in this committee with the Council and that we would like to keep them, that we are convinced that we can continue for your country. The figure of the decree is a figure that is motivated by an urgency and a need of the government, and curiously this need is that on the 2nd of October a state law tells us to start an electoral process. It's a curiosity, let's just say, isn't it? It forms part of this binary activity of this Parliament, doesn't it? , which is the binary activity that on the one hand is legislation on hopeful desires and diverse manifest spiritualitys, – on the one hand – and on the other hand is legislation on sad realities and things to eat. Well, we're on the second side and it's okay for everyone to know, because, of course, if day 3 we have to be independent, I don't know the choices of the trading rooms where they'll stay; but, finally, we're still with what it is. The statement of the word is enough to understand, of this decree that we will validate today; I am telling it now that for us..., we will also validate it. As we have said, the Trade Sector Conference sets the opening of the electoral process to the Chambers on the 2nd – mythical date, as you all know – to renew the representation of the Chambers with some elections that it makes..., it seems to me that they are almost seven years that are not produced, right? If not, in any case, it makes a staple of anys. To be able to do so, it is necessary to adapt the 2002 law, which is what we have, to what precisely stipulates this basic electoral rule, as amended in 2014. And, in concrete terms – I think you said this – the composition of the plenary had lapsed and also some criteria for the classification of the census and for the assignment of vowels, since the approval of the Royal Decree 13/2010, where permanent chamber resources were eliminated. After the government's frustrated attempt, the Baiget team concretely, to make a new law of chambers, with a document that pretended to be the front draft of this law, at the end of last year – that I think it was rejected by large sectors of the same chambers and, for what it seems, did not come to find all the elements of consensus–, well, the terms for making these elections were exhausted, the urgency and, as I said, that is what motivates the form of decree that we validate. The decree did not go any further – you have explained it very clearly –, simply adapts to the Spanish law the mechanisms to be able to make the elections and, therefore, avoids any kind of conflict of those that had arisen that prevented it from being validated by parliamentary groups. But, at the same time – you said so too – let the comprehensive reform of the law that was originally meant to be pending. Before his intervention we asked, and we wanted to ask him, but he has already answered us, whether he will make a new legal text or be left with the same one. I am saying this because, of course, it is a new legal text, as a new legal text that renews the organisation of the camera fabric in Catalonia, and there were two difficult connections, I understand. One serious... there were no more, but in any case I'd highlight two. One is what it would be, what we could say to territorial representativeness, with the share of incidence corresponding to this territorial representativeness; I think there was a conflict here. And another, which was the economic maintenance of the chambers after the elimination of compulsory shares of enterprises by the State. I think these two are the basic conflicts; sure there's more, huh? , but this two series the basic conflicts. Clearly, I believe that we have this: the attempt to resolve these two objectives and at the same time give a sense of coherence, a sense of balance to what we could say about the collective mission that the law commends to institutions that are hundreds of years old and that did not owe to these objectives that the law currently commends them. And that's the repte that didn't win and that's still hanging in the way of the good proposals, which I hope is real. For now, then, we're doing the renovation. We hope that this will make it easier for us to rethink the institution from a perspective that is more attentive to the needs of the territory and with a more social perspective of the economy, which is good for us, and I am sure that we will need even more in our own time, whether we are still independent or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.66.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... welcome today and well found, counselor. First of all, I would like to express my condolences for the death of former Councillor Molins and, therefore, to move that feeling of support and closeness to the family of Joaquim Molins. Turning to the question before us, and in relation to the decree-law that is brought to us in the Chamber, we put forward the vote in favour of our parliamentary group and that will not prevent us from making some critical assessments. It is a decree signed by the purged councillor Baiget and, therefore, we want to recognize the work done by the councillor, who left his responsibilities simple and plainly to disagree with the official line. That in democracy sometimes makes it hard to understand. In any case, I must point out that the role of chambers of commerce is indeed fundamental because they are advocates of the productive fabric and, therefore, the work and the role they play must be very carefully taken care of. It is a decree law that obeys reasons of extraordinary urgency, considering the opening of the electoral process for the election of the governing bodies of the chambers convened by the Ministry of Economy and Competitiveness, curiously to take place between October 2nd of this year and September 30th of 2018. And I say « curiously because this is an electoral process that plays, that plays, not like the one they plan to do on October 1, that I, Councillor of Culture..., and to make a simile to you, Mr Santi Vila, who was Councillor of Culture, I want to talk a little bit about literature: it is precisely the referendum that could perfectly call Pedro del Rincón and Diego Cortado. I don't know if these names ring a bell, but if we talk about Miguel de Cervantes and Rinconete and Cortadillo the same sounds more, because they are precisely, in that novel that I'm sure you've read..., recounts the episodes of the two young boys who met at the door of a tavern, who became friends, who made money and who did it with traps in a game of cards. It reminds me a lot of Junqueras and Puigdemont in that case. I say this because the literary simile is well-bred in order to justify that process which under no circumstances can be held. I would also like to say to you another issue that I think is of particular relevance: you have made a unique and exclusive reference to the competition framework – there is a legal report – highlighting the exclusive competence of the Generalitat. And there are two options: either you haven't read the legal report, or you intentionally silence it. Because that report speaks of the fact that we are also talking about a shared competence with the State, which therefore requires agreement between the Generalitat and the State to carry out foreign trade functions and, of course, the allocation of chamber resources. It would be nice if you had said so, Mr. Counselor. Beyond marking that profile, I don't know if it is sovereignist or independentist that the members of the CUP probably require, it would be good if he referred to that it is not an exclusive competence, only. It is in the Statute of autonomy, but there is also a shared competence. He didn't say. You'll agree with me that it would have been good if you'd reminded us of that. And this is important; this is important, because it shows the little case, the little attention you pay to legal reports. And it's relevant. We have recently heard the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees which warns of the undemocratic nature of reforming Parliament's Rules of Procedure through the back door in order to adopt, by a single reading, laws such as those of the referendum that they do not even want to subject to debate in the Chamber. And yet, this they want to do, which is a real hit, in this case they don't. Therefore, you – and that's why I was saying the cards and the novel episode – are playing on two sides. And this is what citizenship has to do with it. You, in writing, are in accordance with the legal order, and congratulations on doing so. However, when they are in this rostrum or when there are rallies all over Catalonia they say no, that the rules, well, at last, can be skipped. Really: congruence, coherence. If it is also said by the Council of Guarantees itself, that is, that this decree is, in this case, a congruent measure because it is intended to facilitate this electoral process for the renewal of the chambers. Pay attention, therefore, to the Guarantee Board in those things that, as I say, fit within the democratic normality, common sense and, above all, respect for coexistence among all Catalan citizens, because, if not, of course, you are demonstrating that you are massively deceiving the citizens of Catalonia. And that, obviously...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.67.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.68.0	... – I finish; I finish, President – we will denounce it loud and clear at all times and from every rostrum. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.70.0	Well, thank you. I'm surprised at the ability we have to fill five minutes. [[relays]] The deputies. When they told us that we would validate this decree, the work of many of us was to say: "Host, I, five minutes..., I am not. I was about to make the intervention from the escho. But, of course, I see that everyone here fills the five minutes and brings out, aside from the condolences for Mr. Molins, that we add to it, and the welcome to the new advisor... but, of course, the usual topics have appeared, let's say, « the demands of the UPC, the reference... There is still time left for them to pose, therefore, Venice, or the Conference of Autonomous Presidents, the extreme Finnish right... [[Some applause.]] We are validating a very short decree, and that is why there may be this consensus, because it is a very concrete question. And our position was brief, because, in the absence of having a deeper debate on the chambers, that in this debate we can see whether there is indeed a political consensus around the model of chambers, so, what we are voting for today is to validate a decree that allows us to celebrate, therefore, elections, and at these times there are presidents who were extending their mandate because there was, let us say, this decree that you amended the law. And, therefore, we understand that it is a necessity that the same presidents, the same... say presidents and not presidents. Since everybody's putting a little bit of their show on it too, it's true that it's an environment, that of the trade camres, extremely masculinated. But, yes, I was asked by the chambers, which can be held in these elections, because there are people who extend the mandate. And, in addition, the other questions that are proposed to us also seem correct: delineation of mandates– they already know that our municipal groups and the parliamentary group also have, even more narrow; but here it comes to limiting the presidency to two mandates–, and this will to broaden the representation, lowering the number of large enterprises from 15 to 10 per cent, and encouraging the representatives of those enterprises that have the economic contribution commitment. And this should allow more input from companies to the chambers and, therefore, contribute to economic sustainability than from the crisis and from the withdrawal of the permanent chamber resource..., they have put into question the viability of the chambers. Therefore, we understand that some entities that go for business interests – and, therefore, private –, that coherent is their financial independence. If, therefore, representativeness is extended to those enterprises that they provide, we understand that the viability of the chambers will be sufficient with the same contributions of the enterprises and with the provision of services, and they will be more independent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.71.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Mr. Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes, then has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.72.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, I add myself to the words of Company Botran, too. On a subject where we are all of consensus, it seems, therefore, that everyone takes advantage of it to come up with something, doesn't it? So, let's see if the government has priority or not, at the Business and Knowledge Council, with the Catalonian production sector, or if the text..., speculate if this text of the new law of camels, so, if it's left in jail or it's not left in jail, huh? , or remind us once more that the State, in 2014, makes a basic standard of camels that re-punishes the exclusive competitions of the Statute of 2010. That's what we're complaining about, isn't it? , this invasion of competitions continuously over what Catalonia wants to do. In this case, the PP's company reminded us, so, with the outside theme, especially, huh? , that it was not – it was not – that the chambers fessin' external action or that the Government was doing external economic action that did not pass through the center of the peninsula. Anyway, he went well to remember me. Well, lucky we're on a topic where we'll all vote in favour; if not, God guard us, so the speech for where I was going, right? In any case, as a group that supports the Government, since Junts per el Si, therefore, reiterate that the Business and Coneixement Councillor, as the councillor responsible for the productive activity of the country, is a priority for Junts per el Si and for the Government. This does not mean that his assumption must be neither the greatest nor the most increased, because obviously the country has many needs, about people specifically. But, in any case, I think that the results that these past months have known, so... if I have said it some other time in this Parliament: obviously, who creates jobs and who reverses it is not directly the government or us, but surely the favorable climate, being friendly with companies makes businesses notice this climate and can grow, reproduce and invest in Catalonia. And, therefore, I think this is the fundamental question. On the subject of the law of camels, which is, therefore, in the oven, to reiterate also what has already been said the late past. The first text presented was not in any case a will that was the text to debate, it was a document not to arrive with a blank document to discuss with the chambers. This to a few rooms especially, so it seemed to them that he was already cooking. And it wasn't like that, there was a misinterpretation in that sense. With the new advisor this will obviously lead us back and, therefore, we will have our own law of camels, like having a country like ours; a country that you believe, therefore, in the productive economy, that you believe in the paper of the camels of commerce, eh? And, therefore, at the level of what we approve today has already been repeated, and, therefore, I will not insist on it any more. Mr. Botran has also taken the word from me in the sense of also posing relevancy, so that the fact of introducing the contributing companies will try to replace the theme of the camera appeal that allowed the financing of the chambers, huh? And, therefore, from here, from Junts for the Yes, to celebrate that, although we do not arrive at the 1st of October, therefore, we can guarantee that the 2nd of October the Catalan camels will be able to celebrate their elections and continue their important task. And also, from Junts for the Yes, join us in the condol for Councillor Joaquim Molins and his family. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.73.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Munell. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] Let us, therefore, proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 3/2017, of urgent measures for the holding of elections to the official chambers of commerce, industry, services and navigation of Catalonia and the constitution of its governing bodies. The vote begins. The decree was ratified by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. In accordance with Rule 155.4 of the Rules of Procedure, one time the law has been validated, I ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants to pass this law as a draft law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into a quality school and equal opportunities]] [[302-00168/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on a high-quality school and equal opportunities presented to the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and I'm quiet. Thank you very much. Mrs. Sierra, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, counselors and companions who visit us today. With this young man we want to defend three aspects that we consider to be fundamental in order to have a school that guarantees the quality and equality of opportunities: first, worthy installations; then, free text books and, finally, activities of reading and fooders during the summer. In the first place, to have some worthy installations we have to finish with the coffin of the barracks. We always hear the mantra say that the Catalan school is a model of success, but if we look at objective data then we see that we are not leaders in school outcomes, but we are leaders in barracks. And we are leaders in barracks with more than a thousand barracks, while there are autonomous communities, with Madrid, Castella and Lleó, La Rioja, Extremadura and Canàries, which do not have any. Madrid and Castella and Lleó, for example, are leaders in school outcomes and are at home in barracks; while we have twenty thousand students affected by these more than a thousand barracks. And when I say that we are leaders in barracks we are very far away from the second autonomous community, that is Andalusia, which has 290; but, moreover, thanks to a proposal from Ciutadans, at the end of the year will be one hundred_seventy. I mean, let's compare it: more than a thousand barracks and a hundred_seventy in the second autonomous community with more barracks. We can see that what is going on in Catalonia is not acceptable. Every year of Mr. Puigdemont's term of office we have more barracks and, at the same time, we have more cargo. And the General tells us you don't have money to end the barracks, but Mr. Puigdemont takes twice as much as President Rajoy does. The Generalitat tells us that it has no money to end the barracks, but they can give every year 2_million euros to France, Valencia, Balears... And the General tells us that there's no money to end the barracks, but they do have money to try to make a 9-N bis. We want these moneys to be destined for what really matters, which is education, which is ending the barracks, and also – according to what we want to comment on today – free text books. To have an equal opportunity we need all students to have free text books. It already goes to some schools in Catalonia, because families are self-organizing, but there are autonomous communities where all students have free books because they have granted it; for example, in Madrid. In Madrid all political parties agreed, supported Ciutadans' proposal, and now all Madrid students have free text books. Today is the fourth time we have a proposal to have free text books in Catalonia. Let's hope that the fourth year will be over and the Catalan students will have free textbooks, as, for example, the Madrid ones. And to end, third place, if we want all Catalan children and young people to have equal opportunities, we must be able to enjoy this equal opportunities also during the summer. And that's why we need more schools to open up to provide fun and foodful activities, because precariousness doesn't take a vacation, precariousness continues to affect creatures from June 22. Students who have autism or a special educational need continue to have it after June 22, and the Administration must give an answer. That is why we need either special monitors in these special educational needs for ordinary activities, or special activities and colonies for these people. I know they'll tell me they have the Breath program, but there's not enough room. We've been looking at it, Mr. Solé, there's not enough room. I know cases of peer associations that crowdfunding so I can pay colonies for the autistic children, because they can't always do them with children who don't have this disorder. We all want children to be better off, but that's not always possible, and it's time to give them a way out. As you can see, it is a matter of three absolutely fundamental aspects if we want to guarantee a school of quality and equal opportunity, and we cannot accept that they tell us that there is no money for schools and to deal with the needs of these students while spending money on other autonomous communities or giving money to other countries or trying to repeat a 9-N bis. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.75.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. In order to defend the papers presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mrs Esther Niubó has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.76.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, thank Ciuta in the proposal, especially to worry also about the conditions, the state of many educational centers, when we have experienced, a few days ago, just before finishing the course, so some episodes of temperatures in the classroom very much over what the Royal Decree 487/1997 establishes, on minimum safety and health provisions at work places, which also affects children and children, which we have known, which makes the proposal to set up a protocol for these cases, as we also proposed by the Socialists and incorporated it in the proposal, after the reviews of all the groups, or the study of habitability that you have. And we understand that it is much more relevant still for more than a thousand barracks that are still in Catalonia. About the fibrocement. We have already seen that the Government has no problem in showing that it does not intend to complete the resolution already adopted by this Parliament to a socialist proposal, and, in fact, of the three hundred centres in all of Catalonia affected by asbestos, according to the same department, this year they are only planning to perform on it, despite the fact that there has also been a European regulation that obliges us to do so. We want you to be more successful, for all of you, and we want you to be aware of what you are proposing, that it is the removal of asbestos from all centers in six years. It's later than we wanted, but we'll get it back anyway. And allow me, anyway, to express my doubts, because at the rate that goes, so... And I do not know if we will see it, but, in any case, from the Socialist Group, as I said, we will gather it and continue to demand the compliment of these mandates of Parliament. About the prefabricated modules, these barracks. Sounds good to us like the reminder they're new to an incompliment. And for now we don't see any kind of political will to put it down. Rather what we see is the purpose of hoping that demography will lower and not invest anything in the short and medium term, or at least not what would be needed. Let's remember that there are guys and girls in high school today who don't know what it's like to study in a school or an institute that isn't in barracks. And I'm going to ask a rhetorical question, but honestly, what would happen to this country without the investments and policies that the government did at the time? We have, and very much so, the policy of building the school centres of that government. And, look, sometimes it's a little serious, because we're taking it to this Parliament, to the Committee on Education, problems that seem to have little to do with educational skills, right? – help for books, beggars, we talk about the state of the centers – but if that's what it is because someone doesn't do their job, and that someone, therefore, is the government. One of the main issues that the young lady is talking about, which we wanted to reinforce through a slogan, is that of lleure. Every time more education is not just what happens in school in the lectual time, but education is also the fooder, it's the extra-schoolers, it's the colonies of summer. And more help is needed to promote the non-exclusion of students with socio-economic needs from a non-school area, but it is educational, functional. And so we ask to increase the game to expand the number of children, of young people who can participate in these activities. And for what it does to the system's inclusiveness, we're in July 2017, we haven't even approved the inclusive decree yet. Actually, we don't know what they're waiting for, I don't know if it's when I start the course, so I don't have to apply it, and I don't have to – between comets – make it one more course. Honestly, we don't know where the pressure remains, therefore, of the groups, or of parties that support the government to launch initiatives that no longer know whether they are believed or not. We want them to be diligent in this, don't we? And so much good we can start the course that goes with this inclusive decree approved. But in any case, therefore, we insist once again on strengthening the staffing of the specialized staff for appropriate student attention with specific educational needs, in order to ensure this full inclusiveness also to the activities of the students. And on books, Mrs. Sierra is right, we haven't talked much, surely also at Ciutadans' proposal. What we would like is for us to get the game back for the reuse of books of text, of teaching material, which the government had, to encourage this reuse that, in fact, make many centers today in Catalonia. But we gather that the centres, in the framework of their autonomy, can articulate systems of reuse of books and also of prestecs. In short, let us repeat in many fears that we have debated on numerous occasions, but that unfortunately they are still pending. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of the joint motion and we will continue to insist on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.77.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.78.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Good morning, everybody. First of all, I would like to thank Mrs Sonia Sierra for putting on the table again aspects which, for us, are of fundamental importance, which are sufficiently debated, but which, in the end, have not been completed. Look, a little less than a month ago we made an assessment of how the inn went out of the measures we approved in the Social Emergencies Plenary. And I'm saying that because yesterday there were also a few measures that were in favour of equal opportunities at educational centres. We saw that the Generalitat was returning and was following hands in the financing of the schools in Bressol; that neither was the bag created for the infants from zero to three years old that we had already approved; that we were following without a consensus solution to ensure the food supply of the children during the non-lectile periods; that no new line of help was created for students who are attending regular vocational training. For what he does to the educational plans around, he returns the large part of the financing on the joints. And, in fact, we have already seen, as the only thing that was being done for the time being was to increase the feeding grants; that, yes, the primary ones, because to ESO, and mainly to the centers that have the compact day, the only thing we find is a pilot proof at the high complexity centers of Barcelona. All these are measures pending in terms of equal opportunities at educational centres, and that is why I wanted to remind them. And focusing on the movement, for what it does to the infrastructures, we have already talked about a proposal for a resolution of the Socialist Party of Catalonia, as only in the West Valley, to a region alone, we find thirty-eight educational centers with fibrocement, which we know as Uralita. And we approved a progressive replacement plan in all the schools in Catalonia. As has already been said, this is not complete. We think six years to replace it is too much, we prefer the three years of the initial writing. But if in a chandelier, or in a chandelier we have succeeded, we can give ourselves for satisfaction. For what it does to the climate, this summer there have been schools, some of them that are in barracks and that have reached thirty-three and thirty-four degrees in classrooms, when for labor's sake it is not possible to exceed twenty-seven degrees. So we have to find solutions. We have presented a statement to the Ciutadans motion, and we also recorded it as a motion for a resolution, to publish a specific plan against the wave of heat to the educational centers. For what he does to the barracks, it is not only not reversed, as it was approved, but more than half of the schools and institutes that are currently operating directly are already doing in modules. So, if it's true that we already had infants who had spent most of their schooling in barracks, then it seems we won't have much more yet. For what it does to the needy of educational support, very much in agreement with the need of specialized personnel, not only in the classrooms, but also in summer couples and colonies. It is true that the vast majority of these activities have municipal competence, are girls on the side of the joints and, therefore, would be their competence; but we will also vote in favour. And for what he's doing at the prestec of books, it's already been said, it's one of the votes, it's one of the classics of this legislature. It's true that things have been done. We have, in many educational centres, that the initiative of the AMPA has already made intercanvi and lend of books. On the other hand, the government has been granting help for textbooks and school materials to centres with a high concentration of socioeconomically disadvantaged students for three years. It is also true that our educational model does not pass through text books, just like the query tool. And anyway, well, we think what we're doing is insufficient, and that's why we're voting for it. And one last final reflection: or follow, there can't be equal opportunities exclusively to the school and not find it outside. I mean, the choices can do a lot, and they have to, but they can't do everything, can they? Equal opportunities must go through a global strategy, cannot be reduced only to Teaching. If we want it to remain real, that the government should make an interdepartmental plan for equal opportunities, that it should go through a fiscal system that should continue to be progressive and that should continue to redistributive, for a struggle against the working poor, for public communication means that do not obliterate its educational function, for a democratization of culture and, ultimately, for public policies that are in favour of the majority, because, if not, the equal opportunities will not reach the schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.79.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. The words of Mr Bernat Solé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.80.0	Thank you very much, President. Constellera Ruiz, MPs and MPs... Actually, Mrs Sierra, I have to confess my admiration for the ability of your parliamentary group to recast in the motions all that has been discussed previously in the corresponding committees. There's one more, a pattern of these types of rubble, in which he talks about classroom temperature, fibrocement, summer couples for children with disabilities, text books. And, in addition, today's 9-N bis has been added. So, you can't help but surprise us. We'll talk for parts. First of all, he asks us for a study and a report on the current housing situation of educational centres and in particular for what he does to climate and ventilation. And we'll be asking for it in three months. So, I could say yes, that in three months the department will do this study. And I could say that, because the department already includes in its policies an inventory and a board of directors of all educational centres. I'd just miss it! I'd only need you to do it from the heats we've had this summer! Managing a network of public equipment goes further than making punctual studies depending on the specific situation of each moment. Managing a network of public equipment requires short, medium and long-term planning. And that's exactly what's happening. In any case, I am grateful that you have accepted to take these three_months, which, as you will understand, docs, are insufficient. And he also transferred the government's willingness to solve not only the problems of heat, but also the problems of cold, ventilation and all those that can affect the proper functioning of a building. Let's talk about the shadows in the barjo areas. We accept Catalonia's emena Yes, it is Pot in which we ask that we guarantee enough shadows to the landing areas for the students. I would not want to be mistaken, but I will say that most educational centres have these shadow zones, precisely because behind each educational centre, especially in primary school, there are compromise assemblies that will serve the well-being of their infants. Therefore, we also accept this point; but I hope that when winter arrives we will not be in sunny areas tomorrow. And in those centers that are hard to term climate investments, there is no doubt that the department will do it; it will do it as it has always done. Also ask us at this point, at this later point, to establish a performance protocol before the heat wave. Miri, we agree that we need to know how to act in these situations, which, in fact, should take into account that they are timely. But what we don't share is the need for protocol. The educational centres have already been through many heat waves. Or will you tell me that this is the first heat wave in all these last years? As always, the educational centres, together with the administrations of the territory, have resolved situations in each case: it is hot, cold, snow or size of electrical sub-administration. Fibrocement. Other times we put on the table the need to remove the fibrocement. I insist: fibrocement. The asbestos is included in the fibrocement. We share it; we share it totally. Precisely for this reason the department has had to finish this year more performances than those that have ended in the last fifteen years. And he's done it with the conviction that in the next few years, there's not a single one covered in fibrocement. But also with the responsibility to continue to provide each center of education with the space that until now was covered with fibrocement. What we can't do is remove the fibrocement and leave the educational center without that space that it has so far. Proof of that is that this is already going to be done. For example: Badalona, Balaguer, Cassà de la Selva, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Figueres, Fortià, Girona, Llobregat Hospital, Mollerussa, Mont-roig del Camp, Sabadell, Sant Quirze del Vallès i Terrassa. So it's up to me to thank him for the extension of terms in these six years and I'm sure he will. He's also asking us for the inventory. So, here's tea, the inventory of educational centers with these needs. Dams. In the same line, we also ask that we remove all the barracks in the next four years. You also know that the department's will is to provide educational centres with more space-requirements, which will replace these barracks. But, as you must be able to hear, managing resources implies prioritizing, and prioritizing means setting priorities according to needs and possibilities. And that's what's been done. Because you made a letter to the King, you made a long letter to the King. But you want me to tell you something? You have forgotten to say that behind the letter to the King there are pairs. You can do the King's card as long as you want. I'd do it too, and the councilwoman would probably do it too, even more than I would. But, compañeros and compañeros, we're here to give answers that can be long-term. Citizens know perfectly well that a government never has all the resources it would want. They exercise responsibility, which is why our fellow citizens voted for us. At this point, unfortunately, we will vote against, not by volition, but by sense of responsibility. Summer activities – I was running out of time – say them, therefore, that, as was said at the time, the joints are collaborating a lot. In fact, the ownership of primary education centres is of the joints and, therefore, it is with them that an agreement is to be reached. In secondary schools, those entities that ask for it, therefore, are also made easier by the Department of Education. And, therefore, increasing it has no intention of feeling it planted, but that, in any case, will depend on demand. For what he does to autism in summer activities. So, as he has rightly said, the program of the Breath Estiu, which has increased the places for which, therefore, this program is endowed. For what he does to the books, say them...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.81.0	Mr. Solé, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.82.0	Yeah, I'm done, just a little comment. For what he does to books, we don't agree, this isn't the model. Our model is what was approved yesterday in this very Parliament with guaranteed citizenship income, which gives opportunities to all families. Therefore, value the effort you are making...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.83.0	I know it's hard, but it's just that time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.84.0	Don't forget – don't forget – the 8,8_million euros that the Spanish State has stopped giving Catalonia for the books. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.85.0	Thank you, Mr. Solé. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.86.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. I will try to be obedient in time. Today, the Councillor, Congresswoman Sierra brings us a motion on the material conditions of education. Indeed, material conditions at the end are not education, but it is a premise because there can be a good education. And unfortunately this premise is not always complete in Catalonia and there are important shortcomings in some areas. Because it is very difficult to be in the intellectual sphere if in your stomach, therefore, you have desired teeth; it is difficult to concentrate, then, on a book. And it's hard to focus on a space that's a non-ventilated furnace. Or it is difficult to consolidate a training itinerary if you do not have environmental conditions at home or have material conditions, for example, to buy books, or environmental conditions, therefore, to have the peace of mind to study. And it is also difficult to have a good academic curriculum if one is tied to a material condition that is the cannabis, for example; now, this... everything else we fight, this we normalize. But, in any case, we want to celebrate this young man, who is a fine text, who has also been widely agreed, enriched with the input of all groups; contributions that also put a little bit of a maximist in their origin, and in the end a text has remained, therefore, very coherent and that the Generality is beginning to take decisions on these own months. We need a good school climate; therefore, in ventilated rooms, in rooms we run the air, in rooms where, if we get out, in some cases..., and I wouldn't normalize it in general, but, if we get out, there can be climate. Mrs. Albiach, don't forget the ecological petjada that you have what you propose, air conditioning in the classrooms, but in some cases, in several cases, it is necessary to do so; it is necessary, because, for example, in some barracks, like someone else, you can atone for very high temperatures. The shadow is also proposed, that there are shadows, that sometimes it is the last salvation, isn't it? , in this constant channel in which we are converting. And the barracks. Catalans have always liked to say that we are the best; the best, and the vanguard and success models at all. So, we're also at the forefront of barracks and so on, because we're the autonomous community of Spain with more barracks for the students. And it's a collective shame. And, of course, what's going on? That certainly also, when this is voted to committee..., the Department of Education has a historical debt in the projects, which also comes from excessively optimistic projections made by the tripartite. And, of course, you are heresies of that policy sometimes overly reckless of the tripartite. But, of course, you can't criticize the tripartite because the Republican Left is now with you. Because Republican Left is like the bank: always win. Twenty years ago – twenty years ago – that marks the Catalan political agenda. And it doesn't surprise me that some counselors, at all, are a little tired... ex-cons, and I express it with tweets, so, express strength. They always win. But you can't criticize them. But the reality is that also for that reckless policy of the tripartite we see how many schools are now in bad condition. And with the subject of our modules, we think we need to move from words to facts. And that's why the People's Party has put forward a bill, because it's not just statements, but because in four years the barracks in Catalonia have been wiped out. And I want to end with one last topic that seems particularly interesting to me, which has to do with covering the needs of food in the summer and in the evening, but also that, in the background, there is a line that I think we need to work, counselor, that is to open a little schools around. I mean, the schools... and I think they're already done, but they're usually, so, academic spaces. But, listen to me, we pay them all, they are spaces that can be a civic node, both publics and concerts, because they can also practice sports activities of the veins, because they are also a place of collaboration with the entities of the bar, with associations, etc. And it's already happening. That's why, it's a topic that you can delve into. And this community visit from school and open around it, so it seems to me that it's also reflected. We do not share the egalitarian discourse, hegemonic in this Parliament, because in the end absolute egalitarianism must also lead us to hold freedom. But we do share the equal opportunities discourse. And equal opportunities go through an excellent and quality education for everyone. And it's true that it's very easy to say, but this has to be done, we all have to do it. And this young man went on this line, and so we'll give him support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.87.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.88.0	Yes, thank you, President. Since then, so as to position our group in relation to this motion, in which, while we do not share most of the arguments that the Member of Ciutadans made clear in her intervention in defence of the motion, we do have to say that we will vote in favour of all the points and the corresponding transactions. We would have done it with the original text and obviously we would have done it with the text as a result of the agreed transactions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.89.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, Ms. Sonia Sierra has the word to say about the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.90.0	Thank you, Madam President. In the first place, I wanted to thank both the Socialist Party and Junts for the Yes and Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, which have served, as has already been said from other groups, to enrich the initial proposal. And especially important I seem to have been able to agree two points together for the Yes, because it is the party that gives support to the government; I thank the bargaining effort of Mr. Sole. And I'm also very happy because, in negotiating these two points – and, moreover, he recognized it when he came out to talk – he admits that I was right when I told Mrs. Ruiz in my interview that the Catalan classrooms have been overly cold and overly hot. Mrs. Ruiz denied it, but today it was said that that's what it is. And as I said to my question, to solve the problem the first step is to recognize that there is this problem. Today Together for the Yes recognizes that the problem exists and that they will start making passes because it is solutions. This is good news for all Catalans and we must congratulate each other. After..., just after my inquiry, that Mrs. Ruiz said that there were no problems, this news came out of the FAPAC that denounced that there were more than thirty-four degrees in Catalan classrooms, and this caused there to be no tides, vomiting, dehydration and episodes of hypotension. In any case, it seems that you recognize the problem by the end, with which something has served this young man, that sometimes we present things that are appropriate and do not know if they will serve anything. We are all very happy that this will help Catalan students to study in worthy situations. Thank you all very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.91.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Solé, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.92.0	Yes; it's to ask for a separate vote on the points..., in the first block, from '1 to 3, and in the next block, separately, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.93.0	First bloc, 1, 2, 3, which can be voted together, and the other, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. Okay. Thank you. [[Pause.]] A separate ballot was requested for points 1, 2, 3, in one block. Can points 1, 2, 3 be voted together? [[Pause.]] And then, together, points 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 and 9. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] One, two, three, separately. And then... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.94.0	Points 1, 1a, 2 and 3 in one block, and it remains separate.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.95.0	All right, then. We shall vote, first of all, on points 1, 1a, 2 and 3. And then we'll vote on the rest of the points. The vote begins. Points were approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. See, it looks to me like he's come in... the deputies who've come in once the vote's started shouldn't vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They didn't vote. So it's already – it's already – good. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, it's just that they don't have to vote all over the place. So let us continue with the vote. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 67 votes to 59, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 69 votes to one, with 59 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 69 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 69 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. The motion on a quality school and equal opportunities has been approved by 69 votes in favour, against and 60 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into school segregation]] [[302-00173/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on school segregation, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.96.0	Thank you, President. Well, in relation to the debate, to the controversy that has promoted this motion in the hours ahead of its final formulation, on the part of our group what I have to express is, for one song, concern; for another, firm, and, in the third place, also a certain perplexity or surprise. And I'll explain. And in order to do so we will have to remember very briefly the inquiry, the sense of the inquiry that gave little to this subsequent young man. They must remember that, in fact, it was a question to the Government in the field of action against school segregation, as a fundamental instrument in order to attempt to reverse or matify social segregation and, therefore, to infuse in the mechanisms of reproduction of social inequalities. Obviously, influence it so as to minimize them and reverse them as far as possible. And about school segregation we can talk about many things, other motions have done it, our intention was to fundamentally focus on those aspects of school segregation that, correcting them, can more positively influence the reversal of social segregation and the mechanisms of reproduction of inequalities in our society. Well, our concern is because we have the feeling that we did not agree on this subject, on the subject, and we sincerely thought that the margin of agreement was wider. Our society is obviously producing inequality in a continuous and systematic way and, therefore, in order to reverse this from the teaching system, from the education system, from the public policies, which are very strong, very round, of action against school segregation, so that the public school is a basic instrument of influence in the fight against the reproduction of social inequalities. And, well, we see that here we have not agreed, that is, we see in the Government, and, therefore, also, as far as the Government affects the position of Junts for the Yes, that you – if not, then we understand or interpret it – accept structural inequality, its reproduction, as inevitable or, at last, necessary for the system to work. Obviously, what you're planting then is that the school system that you have to do is matish, huh? ; Matise, restitute these inequalities and segregations in functional terms. Therefore, we find ourselves among a functionalist paradigm of settling tolerable levels of inequality. Well, firm, because we in this sense have a clear, round, and hard to change position. We want all public policies – therefore, also school students and school segregation – to have a clear commitment and an inescapable influence in the fight against social inequality. That's why we, in defending this young man, wanted to stand firm in certain positions. And surprise – and to finish – because, also, we have made an effort I think pale, obvious, palmari, pragmatism, at the time of formulating the points of the motion. It seems to us that they are technically consistent, viable from the point of view of public management, and that, therefore, they were a clear effort on our part to reach viable, achievable and practicable agreements. And what has surprised us, on the part of the Government, and as a consequence for Juntes per el Si, is that you have asked us, from the outset, practically a task to the totality; a task to the totality that avoided taking on a few points that seemed to us perfectly acceptable, and viable and applicable. It is true and, in this sense, we must recognise, therefore, on behalf of the Member Anna Simó, that there has been an effort of dialogue, that has given some result, that we will see later on when we talk about the reviews. In this sense, too, I must thank you for coming forward, and then we can talk more concretely about the points, which we have all taken on, of Mrs Albiach, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which, to be sure, what you have added is still more concrete to our young lady, and the result is what you have in your hands. Honestly, we think it's a compromised movement in the fight against inequality, compromised in the role of the school in the fight against this inequality and with proposals that are pragmatic, viable, applicable and of immediate results, and that certainly consist and count with broad consensus in the educational community. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Ms.Jessica Albiach, in representation of the Grup Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.98.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, he will advise, again, and a special thank you to Mr Carles Riera for the motion he has put forward and because, as a good thing, inequality does not have natural causes, it has systemic causes, and, therefore, what we need to do is work for a system change, which is basically based on social Darwinism. From Catalonia Yes, it is Pot we have presented some papers, all in the line that already exposed the motion, but in aspects that we believe it was important to matise. That is to say, there is not only fraud in enrollment and in school attendance at the concerted schools, it also goes to the public, so there is not only a charge of fees to the concerteds, it also goes to the public ownership centres. And, besides, we have to assume that segregation is not only generated by the establishment of quotas, but also by the quotas to the AMP, by the need to buy a certain school material, usually, which is used to being informative, for the price of outputs or colonies, for the prices of complementary activities. In short, what is to be done, as the point 1 of the motion very well asks, a plan of scoc, which does not only contemplate the collection of quotas, but also many other aspects that are acting as the class border. There are two points in the motion that have been particularly interesting to me. The first is the carrying out of a study on the effects of residential gentrification on school segregation processes, and the other is the study on how it could be hard to finish, and with what consequences, the inclusion of concerted school centres in the public network. For what it does at the first point, even though there are still some sectors that are « reluctant to recognise gentrification as a real problem, I will only remember that in Barcelona, for example, the price of the logger has increased by 22_per_cent in a year, and that this multiplied by 8 the bid at the state level. And this ends up having effects not only on the production model, on the economy, but also on educational problems, watching certain areas of the city. Therefore, as they begin to take effect all the measures that are being taken by both the Llogators Union and the PAH, as well as by the assembly, we need to see how we diagnose the effects that are having on school segregation and how we reverse them in the shortest possible time. And in this sense, we have also presented an issue because this process is done in a maximum of five years. Until now school segregation was higher than residential segregation, and this gave a certain margin to fight against school segregation from pre-registrations and enrolments. But everything points out that in places like Barcelona, when the rise of housing prices is expelling the veins and veins from their barrels, it is even more complicated to have a balanced schooling. Explain it to me. It's true that the school would end up reflecting in some places the reality of the bar or the district, but the problem is when the bar has already been converted directly into a ghetto. And we could find ourselves with an educational segmentation that would come from a residential or housing segmentation. I mean, a phenomenon that existed until now, but it was in a more controlled way, and now it would be getting worse. And as the conclusion of this point we see how to fight for the right to housing ends up fighting for a quality and cohesive public school. To put it another way: the speculation with the right of habitation is incompatible with the struggle against school segregation. And for what it does the second time, we have always said that the percentage of schools in Catalonia was an anomaly throughout Europe, only with the exception of Madrid. At the time, it's certain that there was a certain feeling, a certain justification for covering all the demand for schooling there was, but that's a few decades ago, and this anomaly hasn't been reversed yet. Therefore, we need rigorous information to see how we could include the agreed schools in the public sector, with five criteria and priorities. And above all in two aspects that are important to us, that guarantee the jobs of the staff who are working at the educational centres and, moreover, that they continue to be economically sustainable over time. And, as you can see, we're giving support to the entire youth. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.99.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.100.0	Thank you, Madam President. Before I start talking about the young man, I'd like to explain that I have my final place at a Raval Institute, that it's the Milla and Fontanals, and that it has an 80_per_cent of foreign alumnus. And why do I have it in this school? So, why did I ask? I could have stayed at J. V. Foix de Rubí, where I had my final place since 2007, but I decided to compete and I selected this institute. Why? So, because, in the first place, I've always liked diversity very much, I've always enjoyed working with people of foreign origin, I've spent a lot of time doing it. And, in addition, because I think that precisely this type of center is a challenge for people who think that education is a social elevator, and that we need to go with all the gain to work, but not because it's still going on so far, just to transform the situation. If we get out of Milà and Fontanals and walk the same way we want three hundred meters, we'll find another school. And it turns out that this school doesn't almost have foreign students. Three hundred meters is, if it's not, three, four minutes walking. So, well, in three minutes walking we have 80_per_cent of foreigners and almost 0_per_cent of foreigners. In this case, three hundred meters end up being a whole world that separates two very different realities and also offers very different realities and opportunities for students from one center and another. And it's very easy to prove what I'm saying, we just need to see how many students from one center arrive at the university and how many students from another university arrive. We're talking, I insist, about three minutes walking the same way. It is obvious that there are things in Catalonia that are not going well and, in this sense, we appreciate the presentation of this motion by the CUP. I have explained a very concrete case that, if it were only a case, therefore, it would not be more important, but in this example I think that it can be..., it can become..., it can be raised to the level of category, because in Barcelona a student from Ciutat Vella has eight times more chances of school failures than one from Sarrià. And, in fact, very few students from Old Town enrolled in public centers arrive at the university. For me this is unacceptable, I have already said this on other occasions, because it shows that the Catalan school does not guarantee equity or equal opportunities; it does not guarantee social cohesion. And this lack of social cohesion is not only a dona to Barcelona, but to all Catalonia. To many towns, such as Terrassa, Sabadell, Cerdanyola, Badalona, Tarragona, Lleida and Girona, we find ourselves with cases very similar to what I have just explained. This means that the social ascent, which should be education, has spread to Catalonia and this young man responds to a report from the Synod of Greuges. I agree with what the proposer has said, it is a proposal in very realistic terms, very manageable, in principle, for all parties. Because what you're telling us in this report is that it's giving way to a triple network in a system that's supposed to be public, because there are differences between public and concerted, but also in the public. Because there are centers that, while being supported with public money, end up asking for money or for activities that are out-of-school but are usually compulsory, or for English assistants, or even for furniture and technology. We've only presented a statement. We just thought it would improve the initial wording. It has not been accepted; but, despite this, we will give support to the whole movement, except for the last point, because – this is a personal opinion – I think the CUP has a very close vision in this sense. And this idea of the public... that we agree that the public has to defend itself, but we also think that we have to give a cabuda to private initiates. If we follow this model that proposes the CUP, we wouldn't have fantasistic centers that work very well– and I recommend you to go and visit – like, for example, El Llindar, which is a second-opportunity school, or, for example, the Carrilet, which is a school of autistic children, or also all the proposals of Educació Viva. In any case, we share the general experience of the proposal and support much of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.101.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. The words of Ms. Anna Simó, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.102.0	Thank you, President. I've decided to start my intervention by telling Mr. Riera: Mr. Riera, you're not surprised, you're not out of place, you're not worried, you're not perplexed, because there's a lot of way to go against school segregation; it's going on, we'll go through folds and there's a lot of work to do and there's a lot of work done on the needle already. And I'll explain. Yesterday, to El Diari de l'Escola d'Estiu, by Rosa Sensat, who publishes the digital El Diari de l'Educació, there was an article jointly signed for the Consortium of Education of Barcelona, for the Diputació de Barcelona, for Escola Nova 21 and for Rosa Sensat, that they give something that, in fact, is of calaix, but that they wanted to carry them, that they say: "The challenge of updating the education system is so great that only through the sum of efforts of all the agents involved will be possible. And in the case of school segregation, which we have been talking about for forty years, and Europe has not found the magic formula either to attack it quickly, urgently and safely, there is more hope than ever, for that reason, I can do it, because there is a willingness to work intensively there. And I think the sum is more than the juxtaposition of proposals. And the dialog is more than not a juxtaposition of monologues. That's why I think it's good that from the Greuges Synod, as we were able to prove also the parliamentary groups that we attended in a meeting at the end of generation, principles of fever – I don't know exactly when it was –..., from the Greuges Synod, according to the department, it's meant to push..., I heard that it was intended to make a country pact against school segregation. I understand you're working on it. And here, obviously, the key role is the universal educational community, with all its plurality: the local world, of course, the two municipalist associations – that there were and were very active in that meeting–; the Department of Education, and the rest of the educational community. This pact is working, it is getting pregnant; there are meetings – one meeting after the other – and I think there will be a good agreement and a great agreement in this sense, in which I hope that the political parties and parliamentary groups, in any case, can also form part of it, as we have been part of it, of that meeting. Therefore, we have questions, therefore, that we can share in the fund, but that the way in which they are planted, so perhaps we do not share it, or that we understand that they do not just bring concrete measures..., as now a plan of work, in terms of five years; but there are no concrete measures. All right, the concrete measures will lay down the pact that we will make among all; so let's give ourselves the time and the margin of the pact. The observer of equity is a great initiative. In fact, at the local level a lot of meetings had already been set up. Some have developed; others are still only on paper. The government has decided that this is not about the paper and now one or two governments have approved the creation of the equity observatory at the level of Catalonia, which we have negotiated which will be its function and its style. I'm not controlling people's time, but... they'll forgive me. There are questions that we have previously voted on in other motions on school segregation, and that today, therefore, we will not vote in favour, also for what there may be at the back. We've made statements not to make a statement to the totality, but because we like the text written better the way we have written it. That is why we will abstain in a few points and vote against others, because in some cases we see unjustified harm to the concerted school that is behind us. And there are choices of everything, and centers of everything, arranged and not concerted. And this is a question that we also want to leave out today. Clearly, we agree with the anti-fraud measures in pre-registration proceedings, but they do not depend on ownership, basically. And this course has worked very actively against this and it has to continue working. And as time ran out, the last point. You said in the question to the councilwoman: we have different models, sometimes counterposed. I think we should be able to find the middle point. But for what he does in the eighth place, our model is what sets the LEC; our model is the agreement of the Education Service of Catalonia and with all the measures against school and educational segregation provided for by the same LEC and that we must have them to the point. And I think when we start the process debate, we'll talk about what we want each and every one of them, who believe in the LEC and who you don't believe in, okay? Because the LEC will have to get over it. But I believe, and together for Yes we agree... we will have to overcome it because we make an organic law, not for another law of autonomous education. But I think the model that we have now as Education Servant of Catalonia is a good model, it's the majority stake of this country, but I'm sure we'll talk about it. And, President, can I ask you for a separate vote?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.103.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.104.0	Okay. I just don't have time. Vote separate, for one band, from points 1, 5 and 8. For other bands points 2 and 4. And for the other band points 3, 6 and 7. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.105.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.106.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.107.0	Thank you. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.108.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, he will advise – that before I was forgotten to greet her –, in the first place, thank the UPC for the motion on segregation. Actually, contrary to what we thought, it's a little radical proposal; but I'm not saying it as critical, I'm saying it as positive. I believe that this practice of pragmatism has actually been carried out. And it is a proposal, therefore, that points out measures that parallel to many others that the syndic pointed out in his report, which Mrs Simó also spoke about, and above all accompanied by sufficient resources, could effectively contribute to addressing the problem of segregation, which is the main source of better education, economic progress and also social cohesion. The same OECD says that because an education system can be considered good in its conjunction, it has to address above all the lowest returns, and to improve above all the results of the worst. And this, therefore, is the number or mission of a system not only equitate but also effective. And from this young man we highlight things that I'm going to want to go to, right? In the first place, this plan of shoc to advance in the deconcentration of foreign students in certain centers, especially when this percentage of foreign students in the centers, for example, does not correspond to that of its surroundings. And what we have in Catalonia is that 82 percent of foreign students do it in public centers. That's enough of a meaning. And to that we can add that this student has six times more chances of repeating course than the rest. Secondly, we also stress the importance of updating the school map, including post-compulsory lessons, and this as this long-term planning tool, which must be done with local participation in the educational community in order to avoid precisely situations such as those we are living at these times at the secondary level and which we do not know if it is due to poor planning, a lack of planning, a deliberate omission of action, a ‘salvi – also between comets', from the point of view of the department, which ends up coming out because of education and the student concerned. Very important is the role of the municipal education offices in their task of distributing the demand for education to the territories, of informing families. They are a very important actor who, in a sense of doubt, must also be an accomplice to this struggle against segregation. And other crucial questions, such as the control of alleged frauds, irregularities as many families as centres, right? – false registrations–, but also, effectively, centers that discourage families from enrolling students with specific educational needs, with low socioeconomic levels. The centres, and here they can say public, and also concerted, that they make pay quotas that, sometimes, are not voluntary, but end up feeling compulsory. And that contradicts that real gratuity and goes against equal opportunities. Therefore, we do agree to make the regulations complete and to open sanctioning shippers when they come to work. And also put innovation and educational change in the service of equity. And, therefore, working because this innovation, this pedagogical renewal, which seems positive to us of entry, does not contribute to generating new inequalities between centers. But, as I said, on the margins of many measures that we can push, we still do not address the main problem, which would be that of financing. Without adequate funding we will hardly get the desirable results, just as with a funding that was badly prioritized possibly we could not get there either. And, therefore, it has to be a combination of the two. And the assumptions that we have at these times are that they do not contribute to the better that certainly a large majority of us would want and do not precisely combat segregation when they have reduced parties in programs that promote equal opportunities – help from food, transport, text books – when the parties have fulminated for the schools in Bressol. And while the departure of the concerted centres is recovering at the 2010 level – I'm not saying it's enough, but it has recovered – the public has not yet arrived. And with that I mean that we need to keep getting better and that we need to address the problem. And like, it's more inverted and also inverted in a different way, improving the financing of public centres, meaning doubt, and maybe we could talk about breaking the linearity – it's to say, not everyone the same, but depending on the needs–, and also improving the financing of the concerted centres that assume the co-responsibility of the public service, of the centers that are socially compromised, and, therefore, recovering the contracts program to guarantee real gratuity. And, in turn, why not, I think it's important to rethink the concert with centers that clearly have an elitist vocation, that have no will to assume a public service. And it is the case of many schools that secrete by sex and many others that we all know. And, finally, therefore, the study that the CUP points to in its later point seems to me that it can be useful, that goes in this line, that it does not have to amaze anyone. And for all this, then, we will vote in favour of the joint. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.109.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.110.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, ladies and gentlemen, and I take this opportunity, too, to greet the people who are with us. It is clear that in the People's Party we are for fairness and against segregation, but in order to decide our support for the motion we must first contextualize the one with the previous inquiry, in order to know the ultimate objective pursued by the UPC. And the interpellation does not give rise to any doubt about the project of social engineering laminator of individual freedoms that lies behind this motion. In fact, the Member explains it in his reply, that the education system is a fundamental pillar for intervening in society and transforming it, he says that towards more positive objectives, although we are not sure that the social objectives of the UPC are indeed positive for the general interest; of course not for individual freedoms. It tells us that above the right of parents to choose an educational model for their children, above the autonomy of the centre, of the freedom of education, there is the right to receive an equal education, according to the CUP, an education that equals us all and necessarily from below, as these uniformizing and collectivizing theories of society have demonstrated where they have been implanted, whether with a Caribbean climate, Siberian cold, Eastern millennial culture or by laminating the life and wealth that Eastern Europe had a century ago. These theories that social justice ends up being that we are all the same from the bottom have systematically failed, because they have not brought progress or opportunities, or even happiness to people. In addition to the fact that all, without exception, have gone hand in hand with anti-democratic dictatorships, this is logical when the means to achieve the objectives are openly liberticid. We will not be complicit in facilitating the intervention of society through education so that we are all as the CUP wants. We will not support imposition above individual freedom. Because we see it exactly the other way around: we believe that an equitable society needs more freedom, more opportunities to end starting inequalities and that everyone gets where his will, his capacity and his effort allow him. For us, the education system is not an interventionist and homogenizing tool of social engineering, repressive with the educational initiative and laminator of individual freedom. For us, the education system is a public service that we pay among all, so that any child, apart from his or her starting conditions, receives excellent training, according to the pedagogical model chosen by his or her parents, receiving the necessary support to develop his or her full potential, in a framework of dual freedom that strengthens our legality, in line with the international guidelines and the most advanced democracies: freedom of teaching and freedom of parents to choose the educational model of their children. The goal of education is not to equal, but to promote and give opportunities, to ensure that everyone can develop their talents, all different, according to the will and vital project of each one. And that is equity: not that we are all the same, but that we all have the same opportunities to start. But we all know that guaranteeing more and better opportunities for all costs a lot of money that Catalan public education is not receiving. And this we have been claiming and denouncing for years: a minimum of 2,000_million more for education. Because only excellent public education can be the basis for the solidarity, just and equitable society for which we pay taxes. With regard to the obsessive ideological persecution of the UPC by the concerted school, three things must be said. First, that only with the concerted school is guaranteed the freedom of parents to choose something different from what the politician in charge of education decides. And being able to choose supports freedom, with options that must be able to reach all families so that they are not elitist. And that's why we defend a stable and sufficient concert scheme. Second, that the existence of the concerted school reduces the overall cost of the education system because the concert barely covers half of the schooling in public square. Therefore, these concerted places, co-financed by families, release resources for public education. Applying the ideas of the CUP, the concerted centers, either would turn into elitist schools only affordable for those who can afford it, or would close, which would collapse the public system, which could not absorb all the demand for places. Or maybe the CUP would nationalize the concerted schools. But in that case, the Administration would not be able to assume its management with the current concert budget. Third, that the existence of different pedagogical models in centers of different ownership, all incorporated into the current mixed network, what reflects is the plurality and richness of society. And this – this – is a value of the most advanced democracies, and this we believe is our obligation to defend and promote. Therefore, we will not vote on a motion that, with the alibi of supposedly combating segregation, pursues and hides a lethal goal for the freedom and plurality of our society. We will not be complicit in launching the social project of the CUP. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.111.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Next, Mr. Carles Riera has the word, to pronounce himself on the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.112.0	Thank you, President. Well, to the deputy of the People's Party, and to fill it up quickly, just tell him that he's wrong in an adjective that he used, well, an attribute that he used for us. We do not speak of "social engineering, we speak openly of class struggle and social struggle. And, obviously, for us public teaching is a key factor in this process of social struggle, to serve, obviously, to generate equality, equality for everyone. And, in any case, if there is to be positive discrimination, which is the service of the weakest and most disadvantaged, and not the service of reproducing the elites and the pre-existing social hierarchies and oligarchies. So, said that, it seems to me that things are clear. Well, for what he does to the papers, I insist, we must appreciate the support, so, I reject this motion on behalf of the Socialist Party and on behalf of Ciutadans; obviously, the papers, as we have said before, which has presented Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, which seems to us that all of them improve in concreteness and, therefore, in feasibility this young man. We must also appreciate the effort made by Mrs Simó, Mrs Juntes per el Si, to reach an agreement, which has not been possible to a great extent, but it has only been possible to a small extent, but we also appreciate the progress we have made in this regard. Progress, and to put it into practice, which seems to us to be expressed in a motion, I insist another time, pragmatic, possible, technically applicable in the context of the LEC. And here we are, those aspects that we already knew by the way before they involved a strong ideological confrontation, we have placed them on the ground of "think about it and that we can talk about it; make a study of it, study the effectiveness of inserting the concerted centres into the public title network and equip us, therefore, with much more effective instruments of management and planning of public teaching in order to avoid segregation, ensure that the complex special centres do not become necessary, disaggregate the currently more segregated centres and be able to do so with all the tools and all the instruments at hand, and ultimately put into practice all those instruments that allow us to fight against school segregation and against social segregation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.114.0	To ask for a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.115.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.116.0	Points 1, 6 and 7, if you can vote together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.117.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.118.0	To ask for a separate vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.119.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.120.0	...points 2 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.121.0	I think they're all going to vote separately, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.122.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.123.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.124.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.125.0	Why don't you call. The block they made me... The representative of Junts per el Si told me: « 1, 5, 8; 2, 4, and 3, 6, 7, in three different blocks. And now the People's Party is asking me for 1, 6 and 7. Well, I mean, the Citizens, two and eight. I mean, it's complicated. I think we'll have to vote all the points separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, we're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We will vote all points separately, because the requests for votes that have asked me in groups do not go ahead. Therefore, we will vote each point separately. We'll start by voting number one, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 60 votes to 61, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 96 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 60 votes to 9, with 61 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 121 votes to 9, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been approved by 60 votes in favour, against and 70 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 60 votes in favour, against and 70 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 36 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And the session is suspected up to a quarter of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.126.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into air quality]] [[302-00169/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the quality of the area presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.127.0	President, Councillor, Members, Members... Agree, negotiation and pact: this is so convenient in politics to move forward and we sometimes find ourselves missing in the current government, it is also in the matter of air quality. This is because the problem we have in front of us, as I said in the question, counsel – I think you are also completely unaware, as is the whole chamber, all the Members – is a very difficult problem, we will not tire of saying: approximately 3,500 people died prematurely in the area of Barcelona, precisely because we have many episodes of atmospheric contamination. In fact, the issue is so difficult and affects so many people that, if we speak in quantitative terms, this is a topic more important than traffic accidents; that is, a hundred times more dead than those caused by traffic accidents in Catalonia. Therefore, we have to take this issue as a country issue. Reducing contamination – he explained to the inquiry – has a direct effect on public expenditure, no longer only on public health issues, but on public expenditure, because it involves fewer hospital admissions, because it involves less attention or visits to the primary health care system, because it involves less medical prescription – that is, less drug use – and because it also involves less work absenteeism. So, what are we proposing for this young man? Agreement and pact; agreement and pact with a negotiation that we know is happening but from our point of view it was very slow, huh? - It's too slow. And, therefore, what we are proposing to you in this case is precisely that before this year, 2017, is over, there is an agreement between the Government of the Government of Catalonia and the local administrations, because there is once more a plan of better quality of the area and that it is beginning to implement in a coordinated way and that it is also work for the drafting of a new law of quality of the area. Counselor Rull, we believe that we must stay on this final stretch of these jobs that must bring us to a great deal of country agreement to achieve this agreement once and for all. We have the feeling that there's a certain one to face the engine lobby. We don't think the government of the generality is doing much, and it needs to lead, huh? This is the final feeling of the young man. I mean, we don't just have to do a diagnostic, but what we need is to put measures into action and put them on the calendar. And compromise one thing even more important: clear and clear presuppositional resources, which can be evaluated for the conjunction of the public opinion of Catalonia. And also public awareness and complicity. And that's why it's necessary to keep all the information and transparency. And one of the other points that we propose and that we expect to have the support of the chamber passes because there is an automation of the surveillance station control network, especially in the special protection area of the forty municipalities, and also in the Camp de Tarragona. And we know that the problems that arise in the area or part of the metropolitan region, this has some consequences on another part of the territory, especially the area of Osona. That is why we have also included a point asking the Government to have a clear strategy to try to solve the problem of ozo in the region of Osona. The quality of the area also passes, Members and Members, by taking cars from our country's streets and lanes. This means a better amount of public transport, activating the law that we approved in July 2015 outlining all the regulations it contained, and also a new application of dissuasive parking, so as to encourage the use of public transport. In the second part of this intervention, I will refer to the points that have been made, those that have been accepted and those that have not. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.128.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Then she has the word, to defend the papers presented, the lady Mireia Boya, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.129.0	Good afternoon, everyone. Thank you, President. As a guest, he was not the first to present his air quality in the Plen deth Parliament. And I will ask you, dear friends, to give you two causes: it was first of all that I have a theme that concerns and was second cause and that eth Govern is not for, is not developing at a proper pace all that we are approving in Parliament, and this is also our concern. In the past, we think that eth Govèrn and the local administrations are expanding was the resolution of this environmental conflict since atmospheric contamination with plans, tables, summits that intend to stage a compromise, a political compromise, as long as they do not understand..., that they do not have any impact concreted into better quality of air. To set a good example, right? In what we're wearing this year, it's stations of, for example, Eixample or Grace already passed was honey of all kinds of nitrogen oxides. And this directly affects now the salvation of people, as did dides eth companh Terrades. This is a general political inaction every year, known as the Barcelona Metropolitan Area, 3,500 premature deaths, 3,500 people dying from low air quality; 5,100 cases of chronic bronchitis in adults, and 31,100 cases of acute bronchitis in infants; 54,000 cases of asthma. He pro greu, he pro troubling to speed up all the measures that we are adopting in Parliament's opinion. Alavetz, what I ask at the Government, which I will ask for which I have approved, then, I implement when I leave better. The problems of atmospheric contamination were solved by the action decided upon by the main emitters, and between these emitters, e.g., the trans-terrestrial transport, we now have the delimitation of low-emission zones which, after limiting access to the entire contaminating vehicle. This series measures that affects all users equally, that does not discriminate per year or by euro label of this vehicle, and that does not discriminate for economic capacity or was able to renew vehicles of all citizens. At this time madeish time, and necessary is that of the public transport, which passes so that rates are reduced and frequencies are increased. It was a motion with important causes, such as the current update of the emission data of the plan that I have in force and that are already out of step, which, in the month, present important biases. He's supposed to update it's inventory, incorporate all the port system; now he's sonque eth Port of Barcelona, and we think he has to incorporate eth Port of Tarragona and was left of the ports of now Generalitat, and this is in the early stage of future scenes on the horizon 2020. At this point in time, we are looking for a technical update of the control stations and the quality of the air, which are already obsolete, and here are also some of the points that have been incorporated into this motion. And that's when, at the end of the day, we're going to be able to incorporate some of this stuff, except for two points. At that point I'm number one, you know, since we've said a lot of that, we don't agree that you're going to give air quality. We think it was strategy, plan and plan, but it was her that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we had, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that we were, that Therefore, this series was our position in that tanh ath point number 1. And then, I voted that I didn't count 8, because I didn't give up seeing it was air quality. It was vague of the workers in Barcelona and that labor question, not to see it was quality of air, and we think that I am a labor conflict that seeks to solve it with workers. If you'd like, please present this motion to the public and we'll talk about it. And that's why he wants to have to criminalize them, to have to criminalize the workers, that they are right now vacant, that they are claiming causes of need to go into their best work. And in the news we were again demanding Mercedes Vidal's resignation, Peter sad father who is in management, in the negotiation of the labor dispute, who did not fail to see it was quality of air. If you want to talk about it, get in there and talk about it, we don't even talk about users, because they're important workers here and they're together from Barcelona, it was Mrs. Mercedes Vidal, this is very bad. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.130.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The words "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.131.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, let's get back to the quality of the area; we haven't had many in this legislature and in past legislatures. And the truth is that I, looking for documentation, was passing the motion that we were able to approve with the consent of the majority of this chamber in 2014, the motion 72/X, on the quality of the area, in which many of the measures, because it was a lençol young man... I saw the agreement of compliment and, of course..., that after we got Councilman Vila, at the end of the year, when we finished the legislature. Some people, it's true that everything that's been going on right now has been incorporated, but in others unfortunately, looking at the points of this young man thought: "Ostres, let's ask again the same thing that we were asking for then, that we all approved, that we all agreed that we needed and that we didn't, didn't we? In concrete terms, I say this, for example, for the point – and it's more like we talked about it with MP Marina Bravo, isn't it? – the park-and-ride that the PSC has accepted. This point, for example, was one of those that we insisted a lot that there was... well, and that, besides, they appear on the quality board, they appear on the quality board of the metropolitan area, even with specific funding, right? , to see how at the metropolis level these parking lots are linked to metro stations that can facilitate this intermodality and, above all, that at the entrance to Barcelona you can leave the vehicles and you can use... Because the public transport network that is Barcelona is operating; it can improve, effectively, but the problem is the entrances. Another thing I'm also stunned by is that... with the issue of transport financing, I understand, huh? Mr Terrades has put him on the table. Why? Because when the same director, right? , when it came to compare, the Mercè Rius, we said that the problem of the quality of the air not only to the conurbation of Barcelona, but especially, the responsible, in a 52_per_cent, would be the land transport; then the industry would come, with a 20_per_cent. Therefore, it is essential to develop all the measures provided for by the law that we approved in 2015 and, above all, the issue of the regulation of financing. On this he already answered me, counselor, a question that I asked him, but, well, let's not think we're going to the pace that would be desirable. There is a point that we have incorporated and that we have come to a deal, that for us it was important, and you have to see with this that we talk about the emissions of the industry and you have to see also with point 7, right? , to update the inventory of emissions not only to special protection areas, but to the whole territory. Because, besides, in each territory the emissions are... there are some that we have all of them, obviously, but then in each territory there are particularities: just as Osona has the particularity that the tropospheric ozó comes forward, right? Because of his geographic conditions, so, at Camp Tarragona, because of ours... because of industrial capacity, because of the type of industry there is, there are some problems. And in this sense, we, therefore, wanted to introduce this theme, because it is a subject that concerns and occupies so much the gatherings..., the Assembly of Pallaresos, like the Secuita, like ecological movements, the veins and veins, for these episodes that give of contamination by particles of black poles – in concrete, to the municipality of Pallaresos and around the company Silvalac –, and that, moreover, in different studies, therefore, well, it seems that it is not possible to finish to determine the origin, when, in change, it seems obvious, presumably, because they are to make us study, that they come from the same company, right? the production process of the same company. Clearly, there are reports from the Deputy Director of Health that this pulse contains chemicals harmful to health, cancers and so on. That's why we think it's very important to keep figuring out what's going on and then put all the prevention measures that the company has to put in the filters, in the cremators, etc., to stop broadcasting this pulse with these components, right? And, also, as at these times the company is also running an expedient of..., there is a request for substantial modification, so, man, that until we have resolved the petition that we are doing..., we know that this has an administered procedure and that, if everything is complete, it cannot be stopped. But what we'd like is for you to review all the documentation before you give it permission so that it can also be conditioned on the results of these studies and analyses. Because that's why we think it gives tranquillity, and also, well... it gives tranquillity to the people and I also think it's important to the government and because citizenship trusts in its government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.132.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Next is the word of Mrs Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.133.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies, deputies, councillor. We are here again talking about the air quality we breathe, nothing less – the air quality we all breathe. Much has already been said in other legislatures, as comrade Boya said, precisely because it is a problem that worries us all, that we are becoming more and more aware, but that has not just been solved. This legislature we were the first to bring this issue here, with a motion that we tabled in this plenary, and since then the progress has not only been slow, as has been said, but has also been quite cumbersome and quite uncoordinated. On that occasion we told them that we had a plan, but that it was unambitious and that they were also cheating on the lonely when they said that they were going well, that they were following him. And we asked them for a new report, one that would talk specifically about the actions included in the Mobility Master Plan. They got us there and we're still doing the same thing, cheating on the loner. And even by not cheating on us the result is good, because, look, 42_per_cent of the measures are moving at a slow pace, and 16_per_cent are running late. But this is not the serious thing, the problem is that those that are included in the green quesito, in that of the measures that go well, do you know which one is included there, for example? T-Mobility. If the T-Mobilitat does not progress at a slow pace or does not go late, you will already tell me how are the ones that are in the yellow cheese or those that are in the red cheese. Look, we need a government for which air quality is a priority; improving air quality is not easy, of course, but that is not why we need to get to the measures that are being taken now. On the one hand, municipalities that take some improvised measures that have no good results and that also generate a lot of rejection. And, on the other hand, a government of the Generalitat that does not commit, coordinate, decide, or do anything that has good results. Here are some suggestions: « Romeva sees himself with the Finnish far right to explain the road map, isn't it? This is one of the things we do. What is this government doing? Send our advisors to travel the world to explain an independence process with which more than half of the electorate do not agree. Well, why is it not going to meet better with those responsible for the mobility of structural changes that have already been made in many European cities and that they are indeed succeeding in improving the air quality of these cities? Because improving air quality is difficult, but for those who have been given priority, they are getting it. Look, another suggestion: "L'Estat spanyol does not complete with Catalonia – €45,000_ seems to have been spent on putting this ad on pages that are most seen in six or seven newspapers. And I don't know how this ad improves my life, apart from pissing me off a little, because I see some lie. Why don't we spend that money better on raising public awareness, on raising awareness that this is a real problem we have, that our habits are going to have to change? And they're going to have to, we have to explain why, we have to raise awareness, we have to raise awareness. These are structural changes that we will not be able to make if we do not have citizenship, and we need to devote all the resources to this. Because it is difficult, yes, but for those who have been given priority it has been achieved. And we hope that the Government will soon forget this process and allow governments to move on with other priorities, with other forms of government that prioritize, that devote resources, not only material and economic, but also human resources, that can concentrate on the problems that really matter. This is one of them, and since most points go in the line of solving them, we will support this motion. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.134.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.135.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, good afternoon. The motion before us by the Socialist Party is a substantially timely motion, beyond the fact that it has already been repeated, because it deals with a phenomenon that has two sides. One of them is fundamental, because, as far as air quality is concerned, we are talking about a problem, a real public health problem; therefore, the priority must be absolute. That would be the back, wouldn't it? The reverse is the right to mobility. And it is not a right that we can underestimate, corner, or relativize, because the syndic of Greuges himself, in his repeated reports which he presents in the commission of which I am the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, always reminds us what he says, on the other hand, the Statute of autonomy of Catalonia, right? : the fact that public authorities have to promote transport and communication policies based on sustainability criteria, encouraging the use of public transport and improving mobility. Therefore, for the union, and obviously for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, we are talking about a fundamental right. And that, in this case, the department that runs Mr. Rull, is not even prioritizing it much less. Because you know what you're doing, Mr. Rull? They're getting profiled – they're getting profiled. We recognize it's a hot potato. The problem of air quality in the metropolitan area of Barcelona and in the municipalities, logically, adjacent is a problem of the first magnitude, and, therefore, what needs to be done is to approach things with courage, with courage, because you have the responsibility. And we do the opposition work here, but it can hardly be done if the council does not make a decision. If, as I said, it is profiled and does not address the problem and allows – and allows –, and here too it has been said, that the decoordination campes to its widths. Yesterday I was publishing a newspaper that pollution restrictions will start in the fall in five cities. He referred to Badalona, Sant Boi de Llobregat, Sant Just Desvern, Castelldefels and Sant Cugat. Of course, if the municipalities in this matter start to go free – and I understand that they do, because they will obviously have to look after the health of their neighbours – there is a problem here. The Generalitat is not leading a question of this nature, which, as I say, is a public health problem, and which requires pedagogy, information, resources as well. Because if citizens are invited to change vehicles and therefore leave a polluting vehicle for someone who is not, there will be people who cannot afford it. And, therefore, we can create different degrees of exercise of a right, that of mobility, depending on the economic capacity of people. And that, of course, would put us in the face of unequal treatment in situations that must, logically, be treated equally. That, therefore, is essential in view of the approach to the problem. And it also seems fundamental to us – and that is something I wanted to reproach you for, obviously, in good ways, too, doesn't it? , to the advisor – that when yesterday in the control session I answered the question that our group asked you about the metro strike in Barcelona, you did not adjust to the truth. Because you somehow, to throw balloons out, derived the Generalitat's responsibility in managing the conflict by saying that the company committee does not accept arbitration. And you know that's not true. The company committee does not accept an arbitration conditional on time, which is what, if I am not mistaken, the Generalitat wants to impose. And the Generalitat has a fundamental role in the resolution of the conflict, beyond the opposing positions that affect the City of Barcelona, which I understand also hinders the role of the deputy Terrades, of the Socialist Group, despite the fact that we have negotiated the amendment that affects this issue; but, as I said, the City of Barcelona has to lead the answer, indeed. And Mrs. Colau has to solve the problem. Mrs. Colau who not only accumulates this strike, but also that of the Bicing, that of the..., well, the ones she wants, because she has a lot of strikes that she is not solving. And, therefore, there is a problem of lack of leadership. But the Generalitat has a higher responsibility. And that higher responsibility is not exercising it, because, I insist, it is not worth many meetings unless a problem is solved that shows that the right to mobility in the metropolitan area of Barcelona does not exist. That on Mondays – than on Mondays – the people who have to go to their jobs are faced with the situation that they are encountering in the metropolitan transport is not welcome. It cannot extend beyond this situation. And it is therefore important for Parliament to encourage the Generalitat to lead the resolution of a conflict which, if it continues, really shows that the democratic quality in this issue too – because we are talking about the right to mobility – the Generalitat of Catalonia does little and bad. So, I'm... I'm asking you, Mr. Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.136.0	Mr. Santamaría has exhausted time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.137.0	... – I conclude, Madam President, that you assume that responsibility and that, in any case, the Socialist Group knows that we will support the bulk of the motion. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.138.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Next is the words of Mr Carles Prats, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.139.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Councillor, Members, Members, distinguished Mr Terrades..., well, we agree with everything that has been said in the sense that the quality of the air we breathe, therefore, in Catalonia is not very good, and therefore our parliamentary group is aware that we must do everything possible to ensure the salvation of people and the environment. The quality of the area badly is a shared problem in Europe. The great European cities suffer, therefore, the same symptoms as in the metropolitan area and are implying that there are more than 467,000 premature deaths due to cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, lung cancer, etc. Therefore, the area has become an important risk factor for health. The effects are like tobacco, but they affect us all, and more importantly, infants, great people and people who suffer from respiratory diseases. And I have to say, too, that in the area of Barcelona the main cause of the poor quality of the area is due to land transport, 50_percent of emissions of nitrogen oxide and suspended particles. At Camp de Tarragona the problem is different, more derived from industrial activity, and at Osona, as was also said, therefore, derived from the problem of ozo that is transformed into contaminated masses of areas that come from other areas of the territory. Therefore, we agree that measures must be applied and in each case they must be different. And the counselor I explained in this chamber many times, which must be measures, therefore, complex and which require the implication of the joint administration. Moreover, we have to bear in mind that the climate change and the increase in certainly industrial and logistical activities are against the objective of reducing emissions. And, therefore, I would be convinced that..., before this complexity, before the multiple emanating focus is required these complex structural measures and with the involvement of all administrations; if it is not working folds, then we will hardly manage the objectives. I, of course, therefore, consider that we are also late. But it would also be a little more self-criticism for the rest of this chamber's parliamentary groups that also have governance responsibilities in their municipal areas. March 6th was a follow-up of more than a hundred actions of measurement proposals – so, this non-improvised government, there is a year-old planning, and very intense in these last months – in all actions for the better quality of the area. And all of you were invited and participated; therefore, you can't say that politics in this sense is suddenly happening. And the back document, therefore, all that has been said: promoting public transport, the impulse of T-Mobility, reducing the circulation of vehicles, measures in favour of less polluting vehicles, the impulse of the electric vehicle, protocols of action in the declaration of environmental episodes – as is the case of which will come into force on the 1st of December, which is the first Government to implement a measure, therefore, of this type, and we hope that all the rest of the groups will also gather to do pedagogy before citizenship –, promoting the use of bicycles, etcetera. And for that matter... And besides, it can't be said that the department doesn't act, either, devoting resources to it, because it's devoting around 60 percent of its entire premise to mobility. With regard to the submissions, we appreciate the acceptance of two submissions and two transactions. And basically to do so is to make sure that the government has proposed a subject that is very important, that is the new law of quality of the area– we have a law that is of year 83–, and what is intended is to incorporate the rest of the vectors, more than we already know, and incorporate the vectors, also, of acoustic and light contamination. And it's about time, then; after thirty years, the government wants to take this new step forward. And obviously we can't pick up the 8th point of the show, because we consider that the Department of Labour has made a huge negotiating task, with more than seventy-two meetings, presenting a voluntary award. And here the counselor, therefore, has done a great job. And out of the ambit of Barcelona, so, in the case of Tarragona, we also agree that it is possible to..., analyze what is happening in the Pallares. Well, the accords for the better quality of the 6 March area are the basis of the work plan until 2025, and it must be that both the Government of the Generality and the forty municipalities, regardless of the political colors, therefore, follow them. From now on, we believe that October 1st is also an opportunity to speed up the implementation of all these measures that will improve the quality of the area we breathe and make above all those public transport policies that the Spanish State has never done or will do; 16,000_million euros of tax dollars give to make a lot of social policy, environment and public transport...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.140.0	Mr. Prats, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.141.0	Thank you, President; thank you, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.142.0	Thank you, Mr. Prats. To pronounce on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.143.0	Mr. Prats, I have the feeling that on October 2nd we will continue to have the same pollution problems in the metropolitan area that we have now. This, it is true, will not be the first reason we have talked about this subject, but there is a qualitative difference that I think it is necessary to keep it present: from May 2016 to May 2017, in a year, the increase in emissions of nitrogen oxides and particulate matter in the area of..., in municipalities of special protection, the media, in all stations, of automatic measures, have risen between 12 and 18_per_cent. In this period, there has been more fossil fuels..., three times more fossil fuels than in May 2016; the emissions produced by power plants have increased – because in Catalonia we are all aware that we have a problem with the deployment of renewable energies. Look, if public transport isn't efficient, we don't bring private vehicles from the streets. In fact, the Government, in the last motion presented to this parliamentary group on air pollution, committed itself to having a strategic plan to remove private vehicles from the streets and lanes. We're still waiting for this strategic plan. To other countries – Germany, France, Italy, Denmark – these strategies keep them awake and are implementing them. I know that sometimes it's difficult, because it takes vehicles from the streets in certain episodes of contamination, so not everyone understands it; that's why we have to do pedagogy. And respect the eighth point, we, Mrs Boya, do not criminalize the trade union representatives, nor much less, nor the representative of Metropolitan Transport of Barcelona; the only thing we say is that we must all continue to negotiate, to talk, to reach an agreement, and ask the Generality's Department of Work – not Mr. Rull, the Treball Department – to engage in an effective solution. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.144.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Miss Boya, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.145.0	You ask for a separate vote from points 1 and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.146.0	Can you vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.147.0	No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.148.0	Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.149.0	Yes, Madam President, to request a separate vote on point 9 (b).
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.150.0	Thank you. Mr. Prats, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.151.0	Yes, Madam President, it's to ask for a separate vote on point 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.152.0	Five. Thank you. [[Long break.]] A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 5, 8 and 9.b. Therefore, we will vote on these points separately and after the rest of the motion. We'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 68 votes to 60, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 57 votes to 10, with 60 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 9.b. The vote begins. Point 9.b... we'll have to repeat the vote. Let's go back to voting point 9.b. The vote begins. The same result: 60, 60 and 8 abstentions. Call it a vote. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.153.0	For the sake of the Rules, could you ask for a five-minute recess between this vote and the next one?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.154.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.155.0	No, no, but it's not because they're coming...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.156.0	Yeah, it's pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.157.0	So, I would ask for this five-minute rectum. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Five minutes. Three... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.158.0	Three. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Grau, three minutes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, we have called for a vote, but the Rules allow this pause... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's make this pause between votes. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to the vote, because they have already spent three minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, Members and Members, take your seats, so we can proceed to the vote. It's been three minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, no, no. Go on, go on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Home, it seems to me that flying still can't. Come on, then. We'll proceed... we'll re-vote point 9.b. The vote begins. The 9.b_point was rejected by 60 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.159.0	Thank you, President. Insofar as we have announced a position and we have changed the vote feeling, we would like to explain why we have changed the vote feeling.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.160.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.161.0	Thank you. This point calls for Parliament's position in relation to the processing of an administrative expedient. We believe that Parliament, and so far from the political point of view, does not have to position ourselves politically in relation to the processing of administrative documents, all that we can think of in relation to them, but we do not think that we should position ourselves. That is why we have expressed our willingness to abstain at this point. As far as our position ended up being decisive or could end up being decisive in relation to the approval or not of this point, we decided to vote against it, so as to prevent Parliament from being politically positioned in relation to the processing of an administered expedient. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.162.0	Thank you. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on air quality was approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia]] [[302-00170/11]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the Tax Agency of Catalonia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Alicia Romero. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, as always, they already know that they demand that they leave in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Romero, when you want to. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.163.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselors, deputies, deputies..., look, I'm a little naive, I'm sure I do, huh? But I cling to this new decebuda pharystoll, Mr. Junqueras. Miri... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, you always think people make amends when they do things badly, don't you? And that we try to do things better every day, and that sometimes happens. But really and honestly, when we talk about your department, it's customary to spend a lot of time, not to mention never. Therefore, disappointment is accredited in this case. Look, it's been a few months – and now I'll explain to him why – I've already asked him about the Catalonia Tax Agency, about tax data, about all that soroll that appeared from Mr. Vidal's statements. I already denounced a lack of respect by some members of your team in relation to this Parliament, because you go to Parliament, explain a few things and then, in lectures, presentations of books and acts of association, explain other things. So this is a lack of respect for Parliament, because this is where the government has to come to explain what it does. And, look, today we've been through again, and then I'm going to go to the police station, but it's the result of what's going on and what you're doing. Miri, he went back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs because he went back to the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy – for sure, up to a quarter of a time, that we were listening to his secretaries – Mr Salvado compared, because we asked the parliamentary groups who explained to us how the Gaudí programme and the Espriu programme was working; as always, he answered us a few questions, but he came here and explained some things. All right. Five days later, only five days later, Mr. Salvado explains in a national media room something that he had not explained in his parliamentary office and that I don't think he should improvise, because, of course, some aspects related to the management that I'll comment on later cannot be improvised, right? Therefore, again this lack of respect for Parliament when it had had the opportunity, the previous decree, to have explained to the Commission and to the Economics spokesman what their intentions were, when more than we asked it repeatedly. And, look, I mean these two things. On the 10th of July there is news that the government is parking the calls for fiscal sovereignty. Since 2012 there have been calls to fiscal sovereignty – the joints had to charge their taxes to the tax agency, which is merely an intermediary, because that recourse..., after passing them directly to the Spanish agency – some citizens... It's true that this had gone out, huh? , because, in fact, the year 2017, no income – no income – presented to the tax agency by a city, and, by local corporations, this 2017 we carry 12_million euros; 2016, 23. So, mass success, no. Well, Lord Saved says: "No. We look like this for the agency is not prepared – it says exactly "is not prepared" – "it was not the case that we collapsed the agency. For 12 or 23 million euros that were recapturing...? Well, no, they came in, and then, then, we went to the Spanish tax agency. Honestly, it seems a little bit like they don't have the capacity. And then, the debt, only the debt, says that the tax agency will manage the payment of the taxes of the State from October – question that we asked and did not answer us. What's that supposed to mean? That public enterprises – the public sector and public administration – will pay their taxes to the Tax Agency of Catalonia, and that of Catalonia will pass it to Spanish, because they cannot do anything else. And that's $4,500 million, a lot more than 23. If you say it's collapsing 23, explain to me how you can retrieve 4,500 from it and then pass it without collapsing. Jo, honestly, I find that sometimes or we don't read, or we don't explain it well, or, uh... I don't know, huh? I mean, it's all folded up like a bogery species. That's why many times we tell them that we care... No, it's that in October, you say that you will manage 4,500, in October; not in the year 2025, as the hourly reform: in October, listen to me. So, here we are, there we are, we are very concerned about how you are managing the entire tax administration process and its growth. Look, and I'm also saying it because we have a suspicion, and like sometimes suspects end up confirming... it's that the Data Protection Agency has already told you that the data you get for some until they're the ones that allow the law to be illegal. It is to say that we realize that these data that come from these state taxes that come from the Public Administration use them to do other things. Well, I'm telling you because the Data Protection Agency warned you. Well, since we don't have information, like they don't give it to us, we've made a move, say, obvious, absurd, if they want to, because at the end we ask for things that you should be explaining to us. There are 12 points in which we ask for information, reports. And in the end, really, I read it and I think, "Well... we could be discussing other things. But since you do not answer us, your secretary general does not answer, we must ask for reports, yes, to ensure that all the information is kept, that we are prepared on September 1st to manage the assigned taxes that now run the liquidating offices, that we guarantee the cent_percent of the proof of the consignors, which is what the liquidating offices are doing today. And so many, so many things. Mr. Junqueras, you don't give us guarantees, you; you know hard, you don't give us guarantees. And we have to come here to make motions that we ask for information. It's sad – it's sad – but it's sadder that you don't explain things when you touch and don't give the information, because...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.164.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.165.0	...representatives...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.166.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.167.0	... – I'm finished – because the representatives of the people have the information that they have a right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.168.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.169.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. By chance now, in the end, the Socialist Party MP said it, didn't she? : I mean, it's a young man who, in the background, one reads it in the great majority, and neither does... end up feeling like a little sad that we need to be discussing these things. But here I am giving it right to the Socialist MP, and it would be a question that, certainly, from the department – and if the vice president is listening to it will be much better – I begin to realize that it is not a question of opposition, that it is not a question..., or of the opposition that you..., or that it is self-erect as opposition, but that many of the parliamentary groups, the majority of parliamentary groups, end up complaining of some opaciality or a certain way of managing information with parliamentary groups, but also with citizenship. And here, though, I do think we need to make a few shades. Because, despite the fact that we share that there is a need for much more information and transparency, for some of the things that have gone on and that come out in the communication media to be explained better, it is also true that what we cannot do systemically is to put the stuff on everyone. Because permanently using the concept – already beginning to be quite exhausting – of "legal security for everything, and it's all about ensuring legal security, talking about legal security systemically, is also contributing to what you say the sector that we are working to build the republic is dedicated to doing. And, therefore, despite the fact that we support practically the whole movement, points 11 and 12 will not vote for them, because we understand that they do not contribute to what we want, but that they contribute to everything else, which is to continue to generate doubt around many things. From the rest of the points, only two things. One: I'd like to know, even though I understand the answer, why I say when we care that he's only talking to the legal representatives of the staff and I say when we add trade union organizations. Ah! That the legal representatives aren't unionized? Or are they the most representative trade union organizations and is it that the Catalonian Tax Agency that won the trade union elections was CATAC, and not the two most representative trade union organizations? [[Some applause.]] We at this point will abstain, not because we don't agree that we should negotiate with tax agency workers, but because we understand that we play a little to sweep the collective interests with the privates of some organizations. And then – and I will finish – point 5, yes, it is very good and it is necessary to work because the Tax Agency of Catalonia checks the cent_per_cent of the shippers. Does the Spanish tax agency do that? Have they ever worked on it...? Sometimes we play to do a little here, to force it to do, that's, that's to do and that's to work and that's to encourage the Catalonia Tax Agency to do what the liquidating offices have been doing so far, yes, but let's play a little and work because you're at all times? Therefore, at this point we too will abstain, they understand that we sometimes ask here what a state has been unable to do, nor to work, nor to claim, and that, therefore, it is not a matter of playing with these things either. So, except for those points I said, we'll give support to the young man, but they understand that some of the terms are late, right? , because it would be good if we had the Catalonia Tax Agency in full performance from October 2nd, beyond what is said to the interviews, but the Parliament could have the information to ensure that this happens. But regardless of this, they understand that it must be transparent to explain to us and explain not only to the media, but also here to Parliament and to the citizenry in conditions, we will support the majority of reports or information request for the proper months, so that we can give the necessary security that from the 2nd of October the Tax Agency of Catalonia is able to collect the taxes that correspond to it. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.170.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words "Mr. Joan Coscubiela", in the representation of the Grup Catalunya Si que es Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.171.0	The pen, whose is it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you, Alicia. I'll turn you around. Thank you, Madam President. Well, Catalonia Yes, it will give support to the motion presented for the Socialist Group, which we believe has been improved by the accepted papers. We have not presented one that sets out the essential need that in order to proceed with all the development of the Catalan tax agency project, account is taken of the legal representatives of the workers, who elect the workers in this field. We're in front of a timely motion. And if the inquiry was timely, today it is still more this young man, because, as partner Alicia Romero said, we have been victims, the Economic Commission, as is this plenary many times, of "no one constantly submissive to us by the Economic Council". The other day Mr. Lluís Salvadó, following the stele of junkerism – is to say, he gives love but never information [[relays]] – therefore, a briefing session was very clearly set up in which we were denied the information that is then given to the communication media. This is nothing in Parliament that should be less frivolous. Forgive me, perhaps thanks, but not at all, because when it's repeated it's not a mistake, it's a "nobody's" policy option of legislative control over enforcement. And that has responsibilities. I understand that for Mr Lluís Salvado, as for other members of the department, it is easier to compare in plasma before a situation in which no one asks, no one places. But we have an important problem. We have before us a challenge that we share, Mr Junqueras, we have said, and we have said it repeatedly: we are at your side in the development of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, among other things because it is essential, because it was a shame that, for so long, while we were demanding more skills for the Generality of Catalonia, we were not exercising what we had. We were told that we did not have tax sovereignty and we had the management of the tax props and given in one case to the property registrars, and the others to the Spanish tax agency. Inconceivable. That's why we've given support to this plantation you're doing. But we're laying down all the groups that this is going to be good, because what can't happen, as a result of the change, is that in the end the efficiency of the tax agency in recapitulating property taxes is less. And we don't have to think that it's any smaller, but the ways in which you're laying down and the frivolity with which you're acting don't give us any kind of guarantee. And that's what I think the Socialist Group's motion is about, and we insisted on and insisted on the other day on Mr Lluís Salvado. And we were going to find out that IT is very important, and we were going to know what the back office and front office is, but beyond the back office and front office we didn't know anything about it, because it didn't explain anything to us at all. Yes, we read in the diary that you have an idea that the Catalonian Tax Agency will also collect part of the State's taxes from the Government of the Generality's own companies. And then the questions I ask you, Mr. Junqueras, allow me, that you are here, which we appreciate... is the next. When at a time like this, we have serious difficulties in deploying the Catalonia Tax Agency, which we are giving to workers' representatives, because it's not easy, because it's complicated, because we need professionals we don't have, because inspection is not something that can be improvised, because you can't do contests so fast, because you have to respect the professionals who work for the property registrars who have acquired a great deal of professionalism and that we can't lose it on the road if we don't want to lose efficiency, when we're before that, you come back to the same error, that's not a mistake, it's an option, it's the option to fly them. In accounts to manage politically well what you have now, do not guarantee it and then stay in this situation, which you have to watch with the general speech, which is to say: "And from then on we also go to manage state taxes. So no, you don't manage your state taxes, you'll be a mailman of the Spanish tax agency. And then I ask myself: "Have you felt that, with the difficulties of resources that the Catalonia Tax Agency has to guarantee its own function and its own efficiency, it is strictly merely to make the Spanish tax agency's post office look like a post office? No, no, Why are you doing this? Well, for one thing they're doing all this time: to keep the hope and faith of the parishioners, that at certain times they see that this doesn't go forward, that you talk a lot but they don't do much, they don't do much..., and to keep that hope they need to go out and send messages. That the messages are empty? It's all right, it's all the same. Mr. Junqueras, please concentrate on the fact that the Catalonian Tax Agency works with the taxes that are appropriate and yielded and, if it is energy and wants to work with the Spanish tax agency, so, I don't know, see how it wants to do, but first concentrate on what is its responsibility, because, on the contrary, we find ourselves with a very big fiasco, and I don't think we deserve it. Yes, all the support to the Catalonia Tax Agency on this object, not to continue flying colums. And, please, change your strategy...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.172.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.173.0	...changed your strategy, and your team. Don't give us so much love, don't give us a little more information. Thank you. [[Rialles and some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.174.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. The words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.175.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, well, now it will seem a little strange, but I wanted to thank Congresswoman Alicia, so that we have come to a lot of agreement, because practically we will vote for the whole motion, with which I believe that the will not only of Junts for Yes but of the Government to give the information will be reflected in our vote today, here, in this motion that you present. And we certainly do not agree on the whole approach of the tax agency's deployment, but we do share, first, that it must be done; second, that it must be done with guarantees, and third, that it must be done with a high degree of demand. So..., and we have to do with guarantees basically for three questions: guarantees for the workers, guarantees for the citizen and guarantees for the same Administration too, because we are the first interested ones that this works because it really is where the money that then makes all the machinery work to be able to make policies for the citizens of our country. As I said, a higher degree of demand? Yeah. In fact, you at one of the points ask us for a hundred_per_cent of the shippers. We will not vote in favour of the simple reason that things don't work that way, basically because it always goes for exhibitions, there are control plans, there's a way to know what's going to be analyzed and what's not, and that's why we have, so, the great luck that we move forward in information, that will allow us to have more tools to do all this. And surely all that we have to do with guarantees and with a high degree of demand, cannot be done as always, as you are used to. So, very simple, why? So, because we need technology systems, digital systems. Look, the year 1999-2000 we went with this. Remember that phone, you guys? A similar one. No camera... WhatsApp, no imagining it, no much less. That was calling, sending messages, and a little more. This is when the first computer system, Gaudí, was made in order to manage taxes to our country, to the tax agency. We were with this. Any 2017, what do you bring to the butxaques? A smartphone. There's everyone in this room. I doubt anyone's wearing this; if anyone's wearing this, they have a problem. Everybody wears this. It means that we need a new information system, which is Espriu; that's what the Secretary of History here came to explain to Parliament; that's what we needed it for – it's what we needed it for – because we came to explain a 21st century information system. Why am I telling you this? So, because if we have a world that has changed a lot, we have instruments that have changed a lot, that requires us, so, a tax agency that needs to adapt to this. And not only technologically, we also need the best human capital, we need the best people. That's why there are the selected processes, which we also agree with what the reason is that they are doing the best they can. That's why I'm strengthening him and I'm telling him that we're going to be voting practically for his entire vote. And why do we want a tax agency, so... not just the agency, huh? , all the bodies that set up the Tax Administration must be clean, accessible, understandable, because this is not easy for taxation. And that's to say they have to be focused, so, to give the citizen better service and also to fight the tax fraud, which I think we obviously share, all the political parties that we're here. But not just an administration but we need a legal order – which I refer here to the tax code – that is also understandable, that is designed for people and that allows us to have, therefore, a better standard system of all that is the taxation of our country. In short, therefore, why does the Generality and its bodies want to use and use the Tax Agency of Catalonia? For three very simple reasons: to gain efficiency and efficiency – who wouldn't want this for his company or for his administration? –; for muscle the agency, obviously – yes, we don't add it, so, obviously – and, thirdly, for confidence. How can we ask the citizen to trust the Administration if the Administration itself does not trust itself? That's why it's done. And, I'm telling you, we share the will to build this administration for the citizen, we share that it is done well, with guarantees, but, I'm telling you, with instruments of the 21st century, not the 20th century. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.176.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Senserrich. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.177.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, the deployment of the ATC is not a matter of general interest, nor is it for the benefit of Catalan citizens, nor does it meet technical criteria of effectiveness or efficiency. The deployment of the ATC responds to an improvised political decision to serve the real service of a partisan, disruptive and competitive invasion project. Because, in order to effectively and efficiently collect own and assigned taxes – what is already being done – we do not need a Catalan tax agency that is oversized, expensive, duplicated, inexperienced, unable to advise with quality and closeness and will lose collection because it will not review all the files. What really matters to the vice president is to assume political control over the management of our taxes, of all. That is why he does not consider Catalan agencies to be either the liquidating offices or the offices of the Spanish tax agency, but rather the deputies and the municipalities, which are also the territorial organization of the State in Catalonia, but controlled by politicians, he believes, similar to his party project of secession. The vice president imposes on us an unnecessary plan, very risky, with legal, legal, technical uncertainties and with little or no chance of success. As we know, the Government undertook to denounce the agreement with the liquidation offices two months before the deadline. As a result, the Generalitat is sued before the courts, which could paralyse a process initiated with legal uncertainty. Vice-President Junqueras intends to execute in six months what the experts would not do in less than eighteen or twenty-four months. And so, with haste, the 31st of August will be carried out the computer transfer of 1_million files, reassigning them to the new offices. Current officials will lose access to the system and will have to destroy all tax information. On 1 September we will have 1,200_million_de_euros, corresponding to these dossiers in processing, in limbo, dubiously controlled and validated. The million files in progress will reach, if they are all complete, staff or inexperienced or different from the one that starts each process, which will have to start from scratch with each file as well as assume the new files that continue to enter. The collapse is more than likely, as well as the prescription of the oldest records. We have as an example the transfer of the center of scanning and recording of records of Valldoreix. The deal's over. The centre, with its eighteen workers, should be incorporated into the ATC on 1 January; they were incorporated in February, and accumulated a chronic delay in the work of four or five months, when the forty-days were never exceeded before. And it is true that expert staff from clearing offices are being incorporated into the ATC; forty at the moment, and two hundred are expected between July and August. We'll see how these squares are later consolidated. In total, 80_percent of the staff of the liquidating offices will be incorporated, which is a guarantee, because these people have computer, legal, specialized tax knowledge, which they do not have in the municipalities or in the Chambers. However, trade unions report a lack of transparency in the negotiation and competition of jobs created, modified or abolished in the ATC. There are doubts as to the legality of the staff selection process, if the preferred right of career staff for these posts has been respected, no notes have been published, nothing has been communicated to the selected staff. CATAC-IAC filed a dispute challenging these places in April. You will see how it ends, but for the moment it sows new doubts and legal uncertainty over the whole process. And even with the staff of the liquidation offices, the ATC will offer less and worse service to citizens: we will move from fifty_and five offices, capillaries, with expert staff, to fifteen offices in large populations and with new or relocated staff. The interior Catalonia will be unattended and the territorial attention unstructured. Telematics presentation is no guarantee. Assigned taxes are neither easy nor intuitive; advice, which is lost, is not replaced, and there are doubts about the capacity and design of the new software, Espriu, to assume something different – the sugary beverage tax – and above all electronic payment. Nor can the work of reviewing files, which is what guarantees full collection and tax justice in the payment of taxes that the offices carried out 100_per_cent, be supplied with predictive analytical elements of these programs, which do not cease to be a sample of files. Today the liquidating offices turn seventy_ thousand complementary settlements per year, and the ATC, six_ thousand complementary. The ATC will therefore be less effective in combating fraud. A sharp fall in the collection of supplementary liquidations is highly foreseeable. Nor is the economic argument convincing. If today the management of the taxes costs 68_million between the ATC and the liquidating offices, how can it be cheaper to spend 90_million on the new structure? If 25_million settlement offices are paid for the agreement today, how can it be cheaper to expand the ATC with an additional 57_million budget? What we hope is that then no one blames the public workers...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.178.0	Mrs. Garcia, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.179.0	...the failure of Mr. Junqueras. Thank you, President, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.180.0	Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.181.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, very good afternoon. The first thing I want to say is that the Citizens' Group will support all points of the motion except paragraph 10, because the report that is requested and that the Government would send us would be a fable, a story, without any value. So we'd better save him, frankly. Look, the Citizens' Parliamentary Group does not want a tax agency in Catalonia at the service of independence. The Government of the Generalitat is designing a tax agency that Catalonia does not need, based on our competences, and is designing it for a hypothetical independence that has not arrived and will not arrive. We could discuss this, but there's one thing that's indisputable, and it's that you're putting the cart in front of the oxen. And that's important, it's fundamental, and it's that they're squandering 60 million euros that belong not only to the independenceists, but to all Catalans. We could agree with a resized tax agency for better service to citizens, for better management of own and assigned taxes and for more effective combating tax fraud. If their goals were these, no doubt, they would have us by their side. But you don't want that, you pretend to supplant and replace the state agency. And in your dream you are willing to do so even by losing collection effectiveness. We have no choice but to tell you: wake up, come back to reality, collaborate and coordinate with the state agency, and reduce fraud by billions to improve the lives of millions of people in Catalonia. But it is not a question of replacing one tax agency with another, but of coordinating agencies and efforts to manage better, to collect more, to have more effective and efficient tax agencies. But, on the contrary, what we are seeing is that, under the leadership of this government, the Catalonian Tax Agency is going in the opposite direction of being more effective and more efficient. On the one hand, the haste and the precipitation in..., as they want to move the management of the transferred taxes – which today rests, as we know, in the liquidating offices – to the tax agency of Catalonia itself..., it will cause a collapse, it will cause organizational and management problems; in the background, it will cause millions of files alive that today, many end up prescribing with the consequent loss of collection. In short, what you are going to achieve, for strictly political reasons, is to harm the public coffers of all Catalans. On the other hand, it has surprised us that Mr Salvadó, therefore, tells us that from now on they will manage the payment of state taxes for all public enterprises. Look, I've been surprised, but frankly, I'm surprised that, instead of creating or pretending to give you a meaning of state structure, it seems that you now pretend to be an agency of intermediation. If you'll allow me, you don't even get to be administrative management. Because, of course, to pretend to take some taxes and say: "Well, we will be the ones who will enter it into the tax estate, which today precisely companies can already present state taxes directly and telematically to the state tax agency, what added value does the agency in Catalonia have to act as intermediary? None. There's no benefit to it. We would be faced with a duplicity that the only thing that is going to suppose us is a useless and unnecessary new expenditure. Look... you, instead of adjusting the Catalonia Tax Agency to the real needs that Catalonia has and that it is the management and collection of its own and assigned taxes, eh? What you're going to do with these pretensions is spend more than we need and collect less than we could. Look, we are faced with a clear example of mismanagement with a single and predictable purpose: to appropriate taxpayers' tax data illegally. I believe that is what ultimately motivates that inefficient management that we are being offered. Very good afternoon and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.182.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms.Alícia Romero. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.183.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras, I don't know if the world is over, but at the end of November, when you come with the report, we'll explain it, if things have gone better or worse. Of course, it's that in the end... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Look, I tell you that every time... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, it's just that we have suspicions and because you don't give me guarantees that they do things right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.184.0	Please, they're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.185.0	Listen'm, I... some things. Legal representatives are the triates for ATC workers, who at these times have four representatives of Commissions, four of UGT and five of CATAC, so..., in short, maximum plurality. Look, what we want and what we ask of you with these reports, Mr Junqueras, is that when I open the offices that depend on the tax agency on September 1st, and then the liquidators can make sure that we manage well. And why do we have doubts? So, because, today, we haven't hired the three hundred people yet; they're in selection processes. Because you say you're going to work on July 17th and take an online course; an online course of how to manage the estate tax. Home, I don't know, but, uh... I'd love for the most gifted women to train those who have to manage the estate tax. That's why I have doubts. Now I'm told by Mrs. Sensorrich and Mrs. Regant that the cent_per_cent..., that why they have to prove the cent_per_cent, that if the State... Look, listen, I don't speak of the State in all my motion. I say that the liquidating offices, today, with three hundred workers, prove the cent_per_cent of the consignors. Here! So, if we're now expanding the tax agency with three hundred workers, why can't we do the cent of proof to the consignors? Because we have other objectives or other interests. Listen'm, no, the cent_per_cent. And so she's fighting the fraud – so she's fighting the fraud. Well, it looks like you don't want to. Well, then, all right. And now it seems to me that you're saying that you're voting against the point we're talking about resource efficiency. Well, so, listen, if they don't want to be effective, I don't know why we do things anymore. Because if we don't do things to make them better, honestly, let it be – let it be – because you don't have good credentials to think that things will go better. Miri, about the willingness to manage state taxes. We've said that every thousand times, they get the taxes we pay to the state of public enterprises and we give them to the state agency. Listen to me, why do you want to do this? Why do they want to do this, if it's not to get data that they won't be able to serve for their interests because it's illegal? Look, I've been sent from a public company a document that's already been signed by them because that could be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.186.0	Mrs Romero, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.187.0	... – I'm finished – or you're going fast. Listen to me, quick vagina to do the job well and not to do what you can't do and, above all, to sell smoke and make a theater that I don't really convince...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.188.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.189.0	...to the people of good faith. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.190.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Reguant, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.191.0	To ask for separate votes on points 1a and 5, which can be voted together, and on points 11 and 12, which can be voted together, for us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.192.0	Thank you. Mrs. Senserrich, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.193.0	Point 5 separate from point 1 bis. That would be three votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.194.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.195.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 10. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.196.0	All right, thank you. As you can see, a separate vote has been requested on points 1a, 5, 10, 11 and 12. From these, can the 11th and 12th vote together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? Therefore, we will vote on the 1a point, the 5, the 10, the 11 and the 12 separately, and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's vote. Let's start by voting on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. Point 1a was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 59 votes to 61, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 10. The vote begins. Point 10_has been approved by 105 votes to 1, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 11. The vote begins. Point 11_has been approved by 120 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 12. The vote begins. Point 12_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the Catalonia Tax Agency was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the control of plagues against the conreus]] [[302-00171/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on the control of plagues against the conreus, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Marisa Xandri" has. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thanks for going out in a hurry and quiet. [[Pause.]] Thanks for the silence. Mrs. Xandri, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.197.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, well, the motion that we present today, unfortunately, is of the utmost topicality. And he said badly because just the same day the councilwoman, the 28th of June, was being questioned, a focus of cargo was being detected in the region of the Ribera d'Ebre, at the municipal term of Miravet. We are informed, she said, that from the first moment the DARP began the prospecting measures of the area in the long term and that part of the Hydrographic Confederation of the Ebro, therefore, were also hard the relevant actions, immediate, for its eradication. It is a total of one hundred and fifty posts that affects a two-hundred_metre tram from the left margin of the river. We know that on the part of the department it will proceed to the official enlargement of the demarcated area and to intensify the vigilance of the plague. This is bad news, which, of course, will mean changing the Pla de Luta against the 2017 cargoman, in the sense that the government will have to extend its margin of action. And in this sense, I want to thank Congresswoman Hortênsia Grau for her respectful speech and for allowing me, therefore, to make a deal, because when we registered the motion, I still had no knowledge of the detection of this focus. And, as I explained in the inquiry I made to the councilwoman, so we are aware that we are ahead of an invasive species very difficult to fight, to deal with; we are fully aware, councillor. It is a species, therefore, that it is only found in South America, in some areas of Asia and, in the European Union, only in the Lands of the Hebrews; that is, the Lands of the Hebrews is the only place in Europe where we have, unfortunately, the cargo ship. For the past seven years, the government has been fighting to make it happen, but the changes in leadership – and I also asked the question – have not helped precisely, years on the contrary, to eradicate this plague, which, as we can see, is spreading. And it's not what I'm saying, but it's what the affected people in the area, farmers and landowners say. Let's hope these posts are in Miravet, so they're in an anecdote and they don't run out of time. I, entering the seat, well, the seat consists of three parts, so, quite different. In the first point, therefore, we deal with everything that refers to the eradication and containment of the plague, mechanisms, coordination with the CHE and the different agents involved, such as pages, communities of regents, producers of shellfish, etc. I also make special mention of the need for the territory to be flooded, so the presence of this species, as well as its risks, the risks posed by the cargoman. Especially in this first point I want to thank all the girl contributions for the parliamentary groups, which have improved the text initially presented through the different papers. I have already said that especially in point 1 we have been able to get to transactions that, as I say, have allowed us to enrich, so, this initial motion. The second point affects the financing of actions needed to eradicate the plague. And here I want to focus on how we urge the government to pay, as a matter of urgency, to farmers who have used soaps to do so and who are close to them, so this 25_percent of the subsidy for their cost, as marked by the order recently approved and which marks the stops to access these aids. We are also asking that it is intended to be more presupposition of the department, to the band that is already foreseen in the co-financing, for which it refers to co-financing with the European Union and state aid. In short, therefore, we ask to improve the financing in front of the presupposition of 2018 for the actions of struggle against the cargoman poma, in the march of the PDR 2014-2020. And the third point, the third point of the motion, refers to transparency in the management, a petition that we make as a parliamentary group but which is donated for a demand that is made on the part of the sector that is affected, therefore, by this plague. We know that there is a report prepared for the expert group that was created on the effects of seawater treatment, and that there are already some considerations of respect. We ask that, well, it is good to know the conclusions at the end of the colitis. And we also ask, therefore, that you inquire about the girls' ratings for this group, as well as who commissioned this study, under what criteria these experts were chosen, who supervised it and the cost of it. Well, I'm done. Only to give thanks again to the Members who have submitted papers in this House, which, as I say, therefore, have greatly improved the initial text. And then, then, I'll make reference to the reviews. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.198.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Mr Óscar Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.199.0	Thank you, President. Agriculture Councillor, members of the Government, deputies, deputies..., deputy Xandri, agraït, from the Socialist Group, who first presented the inquiry, then this motion ; also the willingness to accept the transactions and the papers that we have presented on behalf of the Socialist Group. And, so, I'm already announcing that we'll vote, most of the points... well, all the points, we'll vote in favor of the young lady. It's three blocks. One, which talks about how to continue working to eradicate the plague; control, follow-up, communication and coordination of the different public administrations that have skills to improve and be more effective; awareness campaigns; clarify skills with the Jewish Hydrographic Confederation, and also the Government. Another block, which would be financing, as it cannot be..., of concrete commitments and of money for such to make effective, therefore, the struggle against the cargoman poma; the payment to aid; the compensation to the affected, and presuppost 2018. To our liking, we might have wanted to make a little more of these economic, financial commitments; in any case, it seems right to us, and we will also support it. And, last but not least, also the information: to bring to Parliament information on the actions they undertake, to follow up on it and to know who the conclusions of the expert groups that have been working on it are, what we are doing, and if it works, it does not work. The discussions that we have presented with the Socialist Group have continued to try to complement these points and which have already been said, above all that the treatment and the products do not harm the production of fish, eh? As the Mol·luscs Federation of Producers were also told when they came to compare with the Commission; to watch with the treatments because they respect biodiversity, respect the people who make their lives there. And also continue, as it cannot be in any other way – as we are already doing – with IRTA, with universities, continue with research, development and innovation so as to find the best possible treatment to deal with the cargoman. Therefore, we will vote in favour of the different points, because they have accepted each other. As I said, we found more concrete funding to be missing, more concrete in the demands we make on the 2018 budget, more resources, as well. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. , there is a miqueta, but also a global focus that passes to the Ebro Delta, to which it passes with its producers, to which it passes to the territory and to which it also passes in the sector; a more global focus, because this problem of the cargoman poma joins, joins to the crisis of the sector, to the crisis of the territory, in a territory that is much punished for depopulation, for impoverishment, for difficulties of basic public services, for difficulties of basic infrastructure, that in the end there are fewer people, less consumption, less economic activity, and that they take more costs that can be installed. Also, obviously, a very important issue, which is the problem of the closure of the Bay of Fangar, there at the Alfacs, we have already said, the increase in water temperature... Turns out we complain about the problems of the Delta, but we keep pulling and pulling snoring and snoring and snoring plagiarism at the landings of the higher, and then we find that we are tanking the snorkels. Therefore, as I said, we could certainly also speak in another House of Commons about the infrastructure needs of the enterprises, the producers of the territory of the Jew who are engaged..., and who need to be productive, as well as the problems of the sector, as well as of the territory. In short, there is a reflection: apart from the cargoman, who does, apart from the producers, who also – from the producers of land, from the producers of molluscs, from the people who make their lives – we need to reflect together how we ensure the territorial cohesion of a space with so much richness, with so much biodiversity, but also with so many people that we want to continue living decently at home, therefore, as we guarantee territorial cohesion through a clear project, a strategic project. And, among these strategic sectors, some of which we need to protect is that of the rear, that of the molluscs, which at these times, therefore, are in a very complicated situation. Therefore, we are asking for the Delta for more attention from the Government, a clear and defined project, with the resources needed to pull it forward, and obviously – and obviously – all the attention of the President until the last member of the Government, to try to get the solution of the cargoman poma, so..., we have a good solution for the cargoman poma and all the productive sectors involved in the Delta. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.200.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Ordeig. Subsequently, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.201.0	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon, deputies and councillors. I don't know how many times we haven't talked, and it looks like we're still talking about it. This motion is structured into three blocks, as has already been said: a first block of control measures, another block of economic measures and another block of transparency and information about what is happening, how things are done and where are the measures being done. What is not spoken of in this young man is the importance of this subject and the importance that it is not considered to be just an agrarian problem, that is, that it is an agrarian problem, but not just agrarian. It is an issue that affects the entire Delta, the whole socioeconomic and environmental system and, therefore, the short and medium term can affect the wildlife of the natural park, the biodiversity of the badies, the producers of molluscs and even all the tourism. If you look at it, together with production, the natural environment, seafood and tourism are the economic pillars of the Delta. But let's go back to the police station. Or so, I've introduced this because you think it's not just an agrarian plague or a scumbag, but it affects more sectors than it seems. During the first block, it talks about various measures, but above all, what is important is not to lose the goal of eradicating this plague. If we have to live together, then we'll learn to live together, but I think it's early to pull the towel, and with the policies we've come up with so far, a little change, it's not the time to say, "We can't eradicate this plague, we need to keep fighting. If the salinization is good or compromises the future production of the colitis, whether the saponins are obligatory compliment or not, who receives the aids, whether the sector has done well or poorly, whether it serves or does not serve, whether the damage that is produced with salt to the ants can be assumed or not..., there are a lot of issues that need to be discussed. If the plague doesn't have to go out to the river, it's been talked so far, but now we've found it in Miravet, sadly. The fuck is too slow, but up there. The second block, financing. Naturally, the payments committed for the treatment of saponins must be met, more funds earmarked for research, including biologic struggle, aid for colitis losses, more funds earmarked for direct measures against snails, apart from the commitments already made for the co-financing of European aid. But we understand that other sectors that are also affected by this plague, such as mollusc producers, regent communities, are to be included in more of the producers of the land. Like the third block, transparency. If we give importance to this problem that is worthy, we must also give importance to the fact that the Government of the Generality must be as transparent as possible, because it is a very delicate issue that affects many sectors: to report on the effect of salt water on infrastructures, on the soil and on the effects of seawater treatment; also, on the effects of the fight against snails on the production of molluscs, on environmental conditions and on the biodiversity of badies. I, finally, may present a plan, a plan of eradication or, if not, inform about the plan that is being carried out, even though it is a pilot plan. And, naturally, any plan must be accompanied by necessary presuppositional measures, because without a presupposition it cannot be done. And with all the experience that we have so far, that we are seven or eight years old, we can combine all the measures in our abyss, that is, the sectorization, the guard, the soaps, the flooding with salt water, the cleanness of the weeds... But all this – all this – does not serve if society does not understand the gravity of this plague, because no one will want to take the pressure if it is not believed that this is important. It's a problem that affects the entire Delta and the entire population, as we know it now. And the summary of the summary is that the government should lead this struggle and bring in all the necessary resources. And I think this Parliament is giving support because the government is doing it. Therefore, the summary is that the government must lead this struggle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.202.0	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. The words "Mrs. Magda Casamitjana", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, are followed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.203.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, Mrs Xandri, many thanks for the work done and for the ease of reaching agreements that we consider very important. The Juntes por el Yes exams have all been incorporated into the final text, and this was our goal: to work together so that all the points of the young man were, with the contributions of all, much more precise and effective in the measure that is possible. Also thank this young man, made with this singularity. At the level of agrarian policy it is the first, or one of the first times, that does not present a string of petitions, but rather a very concrete question, which facilitates the focus of the problem and the possible solutions and better. We agree that the motion has a very worrying and very complicated issue. There is no easy or unique solution in all infected spaces. We are, as you are, very conscious, that it is a new and most aggressive plague, and, therefore, today's agreements are for us so relevant. There is no place in the world that has found a clear and defined solution or strategy that is effective and effective in eradicating this plague, let us be clear. There are a lot of professionals at this time, and a lot of trained experts who are working on it. Research and investigation has been undertaken, studying the evolution of the problem day by day, its causes and its effects. We do not abdicate, as Mrs Xandri and the deputy of Ciutadans have said. We want – and we don't stop working, looking, studying – to give an answer and solution to the great challenge we have before us. Everything that is done today in Catalonia is explained and observed at the level of Europe. At this point, as the Councilwoman knows, we are referring to Europe for this issue. He was never aware of the problem, ever. Since the first moment he's talked to everyone. The efficiency of the treatments is sought at all times. Experiences and absolved practices have been very useful to us when the plague was awakened to Pals, and we have demonstrated it. It shows that we are after and that with proper control and measures it is possible to eradicate... with proper control and tools. We hope and desire that Miravet's theme will see similar results. We want to put into value the work done in the framework of the Follow-up Commission, chaired by the Directorate General for Agriculture and Ramaderia, and which is formed, we remember all, by technicians of the DARP, but not only, of the Catalan Forest, of the Department of Territories and Sustainability, the communities of regents, cooperatives, environmental entities, the natural park, the IRTA and the OPA, with the Union of Pages in, plus the JARC, Asaja, AEALL and IACSI. It is a commission that incorporates and represents the entire production sector and the entire affected sector..., which is deciding today what is to be done and what is not. The functions you have assigned are what I have just told you, not only to follow up, but to undertake, intensify, abandon or prioritize in a collegiate way what is to be done. We're already coordinating with CHE, but I need to clarify now, and see if they can help us, who are the competitions of each of them in the river. The proposal to introduce the State to take on the competences that are its own is simply because at the time and on repeated occasions it has been claimed in Madrid that, given that there are actions that no one takes on the river, it is the duty of the State Advocate to determine to whom the competitions correspond in the different hydraulic domains. It is not yet known in the DARP that they have been made or consulted with the Advocate or that they have been dictated otherwise. Therefore, we ask, please, help in this matter. The conservation measure of biodiversity and the fight against the cargoman poma has a duration of five years. Listen to me, there's a budget of 5_million euros, it's inverted 1_million euros every year. Since the department we believe that it is not only enough and just, but that when at some point I give slave something urgently, we will also pay attention. In this case, I mean that all the losses are now being compensated. And at this point, he's not abandoning his activity. Therefore, what we believe from the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes and from the Department and the Government, is that we need to invest and give an accent on measures to stop the spread of the plague and eradicate it, and not make every time there are activities that are not done. For what it does to transparency, it is obvious that the expert group on the effects of seawater treatment for the eradication of the cargo ship to the Ebre Delta has done and is studying and that, therefore, of course, the government and the department have made it clear that it will explain everything to the conclusions we have reached. It is necessary to prevent, as the deputy of Ciutadans also said, the whole biodiversity of the Delta, not just a few, but all, as well as agricultural production, rowing and aquaculture with the good work of the follow-up and achieving commission – and this is the compromise of the Government and Parliament – the total eradication of this plague. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.204.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Casamitjana. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.205.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, I will not repeat your fears, because we have not talked enough here to the Agriculture Committee since the year 2010. The other day the director, the director... [[Funnel veils]] Yes, the director, she's been explaining it to us. Jo..., what I'd like to do is to give them a reflection on everyone and everyone, which is, like, since 2009 that it's detecting the plague and it's marking the first ones..., right? , begin the first performances, there is a super-effective action, recognized by the Union of Pages, that..., you see if it is effective that the government of that moment, which was mine, is relaxed and, for example, March 2010 said: "We are free, we are clear of hell, we are bringing the brigades. But look what has happened since 2010 until today, 2017– you, counsel, two years ago that you have responsibilities, but there has been a game that you have had responsibilities for governance all these years– it is the years that the plague has been in. But it has been so that the left margin hemisphere, for example, is infected. Now there are many hectares in the right hemisphere and now it's gone south up, it's gone south up, and well, they've already found copies in Miravet. Therefore, we need to reflect on what is happening because there is something that is not working. We have the ad hoc group, we have a lot of accumulated knowledge. I don't think... See, I'm diverging from a few points of the show. Clearly, I'll approve, because, well, whatever you say, so, okay, let's approve it. But I disagree, Mrs. Xandri, that it is sometimes a question of putting more money in concrete terms, and I also say one thing: to put money, but that MAPAMA, the ministry, also put more money. Perhaps now, when you go to other territories to get your affections, you may see the incidence and put more money in it. But it's not a matter of money, it's... we have to analyze very well what we're doing right and what we're doing wrong. Clearly, here we ask you to coordinate with the CHE. No, no... it's just that with the CHE they've already... there's been coordination attempts. And that's on the cost of Pages Union people telling us. And it has really cost a lot to have this collaboration with the CHE, a bunch of punctual actions that were done with the canoe carrying posts. The whole block 2 – the whole block 2 – is the whole issue of helping them? So, all right, but help them, you know, we all know, that there was a problem with buying soaps. In the end the DARP had to justify it as a help. Therefore, I believe that these aids, when resolved – the order came out a short time ago – will be charged. But what interests me more than direct help, is that there is also an important part of the help that I am looking for, to biological struggle and to all the research topic to see and, above all..., and here I will link with the last time they have not accepted me, neither did they accept me with my young man, but I will continue to insist on it, because I believe that it is the key, that it is the five-year plan and sectorization. Sometimes the counselor tells me: "We're already doing it. But the sector has not done so, because it is very hard to do the sector well and to say: "In this tank and here there is nothing to do, and we need that with very thorough controls and we have to meet the standards of plant health and tractors, and we review the machinery and use specific machinery only for this area. Why? Why do you know what's going on? That we may be spending a lot of money cleaning up the cisterns and taking care of one place, but, on the other side, perhaps at the same time, another sector or machinery that works in one camp, takes part of the posts to another camp. Therefore, I believe that here the theme is key: we need to look at, analyze all those mechanisms that have worked, for example, the salt water that is at point 3. Well, then, we'll also give you support, Mrs. Xandri. But you know that the whole issue of salinity and flooding the fields with salt water here is the Català Sant Isidre Institute, which brought us all to a document, which was very much against that, and which was very worrying to them. Okay. We will have to evaluate and look at how we combine it with the other measures, with the guards, with the seed in the dry, for example, that worked in other places. Sowing it dry or, for example..., we also have to look, when we said: "Ostres, the black Egyptian ibis is a good predator because it eats the posts. But, of course, he eats the posts, but then, through the excrement and the vomit, he also escapes them. Therefore, I think it is a very complex issue, which requires a lot of knowledge, a lot of research, a lot of research applied. And here I think the ad hoc group is doing it. We, of course, will support it. It's hard for us to know that there are no more admissions than our reviews, because, for example, I think they could have perfectly traded the ones that Junts presented for the Yes. For example, we say: "Listen, let the department explain the experience that is being made in the pilot zone of the Island of Sea, right? during the two-thousand years... the whole experience. But, well, we'll give it support except at a point, which is to increase help and so on, because, well, we think it can't be done that or said that. The topic of help goes through PDR, it goes through ad hoc group, and I think it's not so simple to look at how we resolve this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.206.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Next, to fix his position, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.207.0	All right. Thank you, President. We find ourselves in front of a young lady who could say she's a confused young woman, from the start, or a cheat young woman, according to what she looks like. I'll explain. Basically for two questions. The first one, has a very pompous title. Read the title and say: « Control of the plagues to the conreus. And you say, "Hosty, now these PPs will fix all the problems we have in the camp. When you come in from inside the young man... – you don't know where, either, because you don't say where, you don't know if it's for all of Catalonia, if it's for a concrete sector, etc. –, you go in to read the young man, and you say, "Well, they talk about the damn tree. Say: "Very well. And then you say, "Well, why are they staring at this one? As at least you could also consult the memory of the reserve of the Earths of the Hebrews biosphere, where all invasive species or « molests, we could say, and make an approximate list, because it is not exhaustive, from up to two plagues, which can be considered plagues, right? , of species that can be invaders or, even if they are native, are annoying, and here, from the agrarian space, therefore, we would find effects, also, therefore, from the olive fly, the citrus fly, and say: "Well, they only address this question. Say: "Well, very well. One time we're going to look at what this young man says, you see it's a bar of different proposals, a doorway, so, pim-pam-pum, where questions are barred... [[Funnel veils]] – Yes, yes, the original yes, in the end it was minimally straightened out –; it says things that are already being done, right? – say things that are already being done – for example, so all awareness campaigns. He talks about things that depend on others; he says, and more so, they throw stones at his roof, because they talk about that CHE, don't they? When, say, one of the complaints that is made by the different follow-up commissions is the non-participation or the performance, say, of a mike in its air. They did an act not long ago that it was a failure, because they did not talk to anyone, they did it outside of the season that was playing, so, say so, put the piles before they came to claim things that we need to improve here, that surely there are things to improve. They also have..., or at least the original motion had inconcrete questions. They were talking at some point, therefore, about establishing control mechanisms. But what are the control mechanisms? Why, then, further ahead of the young man, he was talking about the evaluation, wasn't he? , to pass accounts on some of these control mechanisms that have been made, and claimed, or claimed, with these points, that these results be explained by the different mechanisms that have been implemented, but had a point that said that more control mechanisms have yet to be pushed. Therefore, she was a young man, as we say, therefore, of a barrage of things that are already being done, of things that depend on others, of things that are inconcrete. Clearly, at the end of the day, it's locked up, isn't it? They say: "To pay the help to the pages and to the affected ones. Says: "Okay, eh? All right. I mean, at the end of so many themes, someone's fine, it's well settled. It's also true that with the papers they've accepted, so there's still a little bit more presentable, we could say. That's for a band. And we could say that, after all, it's... – in a second block of intervention –, it's a young man that we could say that it's a demagogue young man – it's a demagogue young man – because you guys, you're drunk, huh? Not some herbicides, which may also be, but they're some ebrecids, they're killers of the Jewish river and its Delta, with all the transvasive campaigns..., I'm a declared transvasists, with sediment retention at the different sites, with transvasions and proposals for more transvasions, last week to the Medi Environment Commission you abstained from the motion for a resolution that we presented various parliamentary groups on sediment release, huh? So, you come here with the damn tree, which is fine, but then you abstain in a motion that what we're talking about is how we keep the Delta. Because it's possible that a few years from now we won't have a good deal of money, we won't have any money, we won't have a delta in itself, we won't have people, we won't have people, because the Delta is sinking, the sea level is rising, and you still want to continue to transfer more water. Therefore, do not come here to give us now lessons of Saviors of the Delta country acting on the question of the damn tree, when you, I have already said, are authentic ebrecids. And in any case, and to close, the solution to the problems that the Delta has – that it does not only have this, but that it has one very important one, that it is the same physical existence of this delta – will never come for partial actions like the one you present with this proposal. That is to say, the Delta needs an integral plan of management and protection, no longer only of its natural values, but of its cultural values, of its human values, of its physical existence values of the same delta. And this is neither achieved with a young man nor achieved only with the intervention of a department; it needs a country action, if we may say so. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.208.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Saladié. Then has the word Ms. Xandri to pronounce on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.209.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, well, I'll start at the end, for the deputy of the CUP, Mr Saladié. Tell him the only killers in the Ebre River and the Delta are the cargo man, huh? Not the People's Party. First consideration. And second, you criticized my young lady a lot, and I ask her, "It's that you didn't make me a single thought; you could have made her better, huh? [[Some applause.]] I mean, I don't know, I'd appreciate your cooperation in trying to improve the text you've been so critical of. Mrs. Grau also wanted to make a brief reference, didn't she? When you were talking about marine water, right? I think there are a couple of points, so they make reference to that, don't they? , so that exactly what type of affectation has marine water in the canals, in the reg canals, because it is a concern of the sector, on the one hand of the sector. Well, thank you again, huh? , to different groups the different contributions they have made. Of course they have enriched the text, and that coincides with Mr. Saladié. There has been, I think, an important effort of dialogue, of consensus, of willingness to arrive, therefore, to a young man who has remained well. And finally with the goal we all have, right? , which is to be able to fight or fight, to eradicate, therefore, this plague which, as I said already, is already found to Miravet. Therefore, here all parliamentary groups are going to one, and I hope, therefore, that this motion can be approved unanimously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.210.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.211.0	[[The speaker began to speak without using the microphone, a word for which the first words had not been recorded.]] ... of point 2.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.212.0	Okay. Thank you. Mr Espinosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.213.0	To ask for a separate vote from point 1.e.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.214.0	Mr. Saladié, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.215.0	Yes, to ask for a separate vote. They've asked for 2.c, haven't they?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.216.0	2.c.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.217.0	Yeah. So also from '1.b.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.218.0	One?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.219.0	Good.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.220.0	Good. [[Long break.]] Separate vote from points 1.b, 1.e and 2.c has been requested. We will begin by voting on these points and then vote on the rest of the motion. First we vote point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1.e_was approved by 104 votes in favour, against and 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.c. The vote begins. The 2.c_point was rejected by 53 votes to 59, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The bill on the control of plagues against the conreus has been approved by 128 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the situation of large people's residences]] [[302-00172/11]] The point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the Government on the situation of the residences of great people, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms. Marta Ribas. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, please, as always, they're in a hurry and quiet so we can continue with the debate. [[Pause.]] Mrs. Ribas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.221.0	All right. Thank you, President. As you know, we focused on this inquiry based on the case of the five residents of Barcelona, five public residences awarded to external management with badly done departures, cases of bidding with offers of fearless casualties, poor practice on the part of the company– we mean labour exploitation, poor conditions of service... – and obvious problems in the inspection because all these problems were not detected before – so there is an obvious problem, in the inspection– ; they had not been detected until the families of residents denounced it via the SOS Gent Gran Barcelona platform, which today return to accompany us in the plenary. On these five Barcelona residences are, in fact, the first two points of the motion that we are voting on; two very concrete points, two points that try to get the compromise that comes out of this motion today so that this month of July there will be the departures and the call for a new competition for the year 2018, the year is coming, they will award new these five residences; that the departures will close the correct alerts of the staff, of the managers, and that while – or still, until we reach 2018 with this new award – the undertaking that is currently managing these five residences will be forced to guarantee adequate levels of netage, food, attention to the personal name that will be saved. Two very concrete points are those that make reference to these five cases of Barcelona residences; they are commitments announced by the councillor, but today we are putting black on white and, therefore, today we are committing ourselves, like the Parliament of Catalonia, and we are asking the Government of the Generality to complete it. And therefore, that it is not only spoken, but that it is done, and that it is made clear what it will do and when it will be done. But from the case of these five residences of Barcelona – legitimately, I believe – there has been a doubt about how the rest of the residences throughout the country are working. And, in this sense, the rest of the points of the motion that we are raising today; points that refer to three essential elements that we believe are not working well in this sector: the labor share – or so, attendance rates, working conditions –, the system of awarding the management of these services and the operating controls of these services. For this reason, in the motion, for example, we ask for an assessment of the quality and efficiency of the service of all the residents of Catalonia during this year; to increase inspections; to improve the democratic mechanisms of participation of each centre; to ask that the departures of public contracts include priority for enterprises of the third social sector without a desire to work, which can be done now; mechanisms to avoid low fears; clearer indicators on the rates and quality of the service, and penalties and appropriate penalties. And on the labour side, we ask, for example, that it is better the rates and conditions of work, making a review in the update of the Social Service Portfolio; that it is suspended the agreement of flexibility of the rates that was signed in 2012 with employers, that they do not want to do so and that it is still in force – so that this agreement is suspended – but – and let me stop at this point – that it is also better the public rates to serve the great people, conditioning this increase to go basically to the best of wages, but also to the best of the servants. And it is that we are talking about a sector that is a generator of poor work, a very feminized sector, with exploited staff and with a few worthy sub-masses; here we are talking about the debate on guaranteed income for citizens. Therefore, counsel, Government, Together for the Yes – who are the ones who vote today – has no sense that the Department of Labour and Social Affairs generates precariousness and poor work, and, for another band, you have to take measures, such as guaranteed citizenship income, to fight against the poor work. Perhaps we are fighting the working poor directly, making sure that there are decent conditions in the sectors in which we can focus; for example, in the area of dependency; for example, in the case we speak today in this young man, in the residences for the great people. So let me stop, as I said, at this point, because it's important, because the unions don't just ask for it, but the same employer. If public fees are not improved, the working conditions of the staff working in the residences cannot be improved. And that's essential. And that's what we're voting for today in this young man. Therefore, we are talking about measures to make commitments to reverse the problem of funds – the lack of resources, the effect of retailing – as soon as possible; also to lay the groundwork to trap this plant in order to dignify the attention to our great people, but, moreover, we start to do so in the case of these five residents of the capital of the country, Barcelona, in that they are not worth shaking or waiting. Measures must be taken, already, of urgency; measures must be taken, all of them of this kind, in order to guarantee worthy attention to our great people. And we hope they can have the support of the vast majority of this chamber, as surely they will. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.222.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. To defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Ms Gabriela Serra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.223.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, good afternoon. We're done; we're done, aren't we? That'll be it. First of all, say hello to the companies and companies of SOS Gent Gran. You are here and you will give us a situation that never happens: that we want to discuss and vote on a motion for a resolution of which a very important part has already been achieved. And that's important, I mean. The first and second points you've already got. And I want to take advantage of it to apologize to you, because the last time I met you and we were dealing with the subject, I wasn't so optimistic, if you remember. I said: "This will cost. And the company, one of the three, the third of which unfortunately I don't remember the name, asked me: "Do you think we'll have this before July? And I replied: "I see very difficult. I don't think so. So I was wrong. You, with your struggle, your vehemence, your persistence and your decision, have already succeeded. So you won me, even though I was right. [[Funnel veils]] And the counselor..., that's why... – you, then – you're right in one thing, which I also told you, that you can only fight and fight and fight and you can get it. Counselor, you did good, that did good. All the way, I told the company and the companies, and I also said to you, "So far, we have a word, we have published it, we have edited it, but this can't stay here. Follow him, she'll follow you, the counselor will follow you, the counselor... but you follow him for yourself. The holidays are coming and we have to make sure that this is resolved. Point and aside. Thank you, Marta Ribas, for the proposal you put us on the table. The moment could not be more opportune, than not opportunistic – opportune –; opportune, precisely, for what we have said before: for the struggle of all these people, of all these families, of all these children and girls who want the welfare of their parents and their seas. Outside of the first two points, which we have not done..., which I have already mentioned, I would like to thank the incorporation of all the items almost as we have laid down. It seems to me that one just because it could be a little repetitive. But I'd like to make a quick run for it. It is true that both Bertran Oriola, like the Good Shepherd, like the Mossèn Vidal and Aunos, Alchemika and Molí, all have more or less the same conditions, with their deficiencies and which can be very recursive. Now, our concern was above all, from point 3, with which he has already spoken..., and Marta, the Ribas company, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has not made any mention, of the better of the public tariffs for the service. Here we have had a lot of interest, at this point in the House, precisely, because, "on the understanding, when we say that companies also ask that public fees are better, we have to take a lot into account, while we are firmly convinced that it is necessary to increase them and that this 60_per_cent above all must go to the best of salaries, precisely, why? Because the convenience of the sector is super low, because, above all – we will see more in front of it – this point that you want and what you think is to demand that when you leave, you set minimum mandatory wages, precisely for the companies you want to bid on, right? Why? Because it is easy, it could be easy for us to ask for these increases and it would be very easy, easier still not to dedicate them precisely to the companies to which it is to be dedicated: to increase the conditions, the good conditions, the right conditions of the people's work, and to improve the material, technical and sub-ministry conditions that they must have. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I was fast. I also had a lot of interest – and I will go quickly – that the visits were not announced and that there may be visits... – and we are very surprised that Together for the Yes I haven't seen it – that the visits can be kept away... – and the conversations – outside the presence of the directors or directors of the centers. Precisely, if one thing has found the family members and something we see is the domain of the por and threat in many work centers, not only with the workers and the workers, but, at last, with the opinions and the people who are at the center, that they spill them, they frighten them, because they don't explain, because they don't say, because they don't remember everything that happens to them. So, it seems to us that this is super impregnable. As it is essential – it is essential – because, if it is still true, the contracting authority already has possibilities, guarantees for exclosure, that it does not prohibit, low fears, that it should set criteria. And here we are very grateful that you have approved of the thought we have raised, because these criteria must be concrete, precise, measurable and therefore punishable. That's important. Also, and it seems very important to us – to end, because I'm already out – that we go...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.224.0	Yes, Mrs Serra, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.225.0	... – yes – that we go to the law of personal autonomy. I'd like to end up with two things. If we can – if we can – reverse the process, we have seven public centres and we have forty-seven public centers of private management; we only make public and make public the management of the responsibility that the council has we can advance.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.226.0	Lady Serra, I know very hard, but she's spent a lot of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.227.0	He'll advise, this debt is on its way. Thank you. Thank you for your fight and for your vehemence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.228.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words of Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.229.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Consellera Bassa, also greet the people of SOS Gent Gran Barcelona, who also joins the Coordinator of family members of the residents of large people– Mossèn Vidal i Aunós, Alchemika, Bon Pastor, Bertran Oriola and Molí. Thank you for being here and thank you for the fight and for the meetings we have had and for the ability we have had, also, among all, to turn what they wanted into reality. Before that was said by the deputy of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the Marta Ribas: this motion for a resolution has two very different parts, the first, concrete, which refers to these five residences of Barcelona where, in fact, you have put on the table the continuous deficiencies, some inexplicable, of which was happening in these residences, that were managed, in addition to others, or that are managed, some of them, for the same company. I think, here– and look how critical I am, normally, with the counselor in this faristol–, you did very well when she withdrew..., she suspended the Molí's management, but it did very well, it was quick, and I congratulate her. And it's done very well... we understand that it compromises to make these departures of conditions that allow us to change management. That was good. That's what a good reaction has been made, and what we need to look for is that this is extendable to most or most of the residents in Catalonia. You have put a problem on the table that does not only affect Barcelona. I, when these days I was talking to other SOS Gent Gran, who we have on the territory, not just in Barcelona, tell us: "We have the same thing going on with us. We also have difficulty telling them that this service does not work, or that my mother or father is not well at it, or that they don't change their clothes, or that they don't need them because they don't have enough people, or that they don't have professional plants at night and that we don't give them enough because they can't do a good job. This is something we usually visit – and many Members do – that happens. And this brings us, too, to think that this initiative we are carrying to Barcelona must be able to extend 'the joint venture of the city and to the joint venture of the country. You see with the public contract, of course you do. You can see that in these moments the bass would fear or, at last, the economic offer above the quality of the service. We can't afford this anymore. And, from the point of view of public contract, we have to make moves because first the quality of service when we are talking about great people who are living their later years of life, surely, in a residence, and who need to be cities. And we need to treat people the same way we want our parents and our mothers to be treated: with care and quality. Therefore, in these services it is not possible to take precedence – it is not possible to take precedence – the economic offer. We celebrate, too, the message presented by the CUP, which in this sense makes it very clear that in the departures of conditions it is also necessary to say how many workers, for how long, during the whole contract, must have provided these services. And he's also putting on the table a theme that I think is important, that's the inspection. Look, the inspection... – and that's not the fault, let's just say, of the councilwoman, nor is it the fault of this legislature, but it's a matter that we may have been dealing with for many years. If someone of us tells us: "I'll do a review of your income statement or your benefits by three months, then the one that doesn't complete will surely have enough time to change. The residents are warned before doing an inspection... [[Funnel veils]] Because they're doing periodic inspections, if you'll let me know. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, and as long as you're warned! It is said: "One day we're going to do an inspection. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, of course I do, counsel. You just don't know when there's a complaint. And, therefore, this is unwarranted. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well... well... I think so. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I think so. There are residences that know what day the inspector will come. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Counselor, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.230.0	Please, we're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.231.0	There are residences... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.232.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.233.0	...who know what day the inspection will come.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.234.0	...doesn't have a dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.235.0	And what we say is, it would be good if, even if there are days in which the residents know they will have an inspection, there would have to be inspections that are unannounced. And they'd have to intersect, because, if not, then we have a bigger problem, because if they do unannounced inspections and it turns out that we have all the families here saying that there are hard problems that are not detected, we have two problems... [[applause]] – we have two problems. So we warn them and we can't find the problems and we don't warn them and we can't find them either. Therefore, it is logical and it is normal that we have a difficult problem with inspection. Therefore, I, who would ask, in any case, is that we keep an eye on who you are serving to the great people, run from the country, because our inspection system is not working. And I'm done with the two items we've incorporated. We, the families often find themselves in trouble, and before we say so, we put it: the way to the treatment of my family member, the way to speak directly to the address, the way to the workers to talk to the address that can be left unworked. And that's why we offer here a point of face-to-face attention to families and users of residences, so that they can communicate complaints directly to the department and they can do with a much faster mechanism than a complaint, because many people do not have the ability, others, time, and not money as to interpose after five complaints. I'm done. I'd like to complete the motions, let's wait for this to come to fruition, but we're also asking this young man...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.236.0	Mr. Moreno, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.237.0	... that previous motions which spoke of the law of the great people, who did not present themselves, of the lists of hope, of dependence, which have not yet been completed, will be fulfilled – I conclude, Madam President. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.238.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. The words of Mrs Elisabeth Valencia, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.239.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, Vice-President, Members, Members of Parliament, we want to greet the families of users of residences who accompany us today: thank you for coming and thank you for your daily struggle to ask for a right that should belong to you, which is that your families be well cared for. Well, we started our intervention with a categorical statement, and that is that in Catalonia we do not think that elderly people are being cared for well or not with the dignity they deserve. And I'll explain myself. I'm going to talk about the waiting list: four years of waiting list, according to the entities, to make a residence, twenty-four_ thousand people waiting and management problems in some public residences, as has been manifested in the city of Barcelona, which seems to be going to have a solution, but we hope that all the problems that exist in residences throughout Catalonia will be solved. This motion, as I have indicated, focuses its points on... – two points – in five residences in Barcelona, but this fact is not isolated. In this case, families have organized themselves to get to institutions to ask for their rights, but we suffer a problem that is structural, a problem that we must face together because it affects many people and that will end up affecting us all at some stage of our lives. From Ciutadans this fact saddens us and we think that a deep reflection, a change of approach, a change of model must be made, but for this we need a fundamental thing, which is political will; political will of the Government, which is responsible for managing the budget. And we have said it many times: priorities, advisor – priorities. Our elders can't stay so long for an assessment to be made, we can't have a waiting list like the one we have in Catalonia, and we have urgent needs in many residential municipalities, we have residence needs in many municipalities of Catalonia. Cities like Sabadell, Terrassa and Santa Coloma urgently need residence and we do not know how to meet these needs. And what does Junts do for Yes in each commission? Look, in the past committee, they presented an initiative to apply for residences and abstained again, and they were justified in resource planning. And we agree that resources are planned, but resources must go where they are really needed. We have twenty-four thousand people waiting, as I have indicated, and people suffer, families suffer and the most punished are families with few resources. Professionals working in residences, with good will, are doing direct care as they can, with very low staff ratios, with low salaries for the work they do and the commitment that this work that is done in residences requires. Lack of hygiene, problems with medication, lack of medical personnel: these are some of the problems that family members have expressed to us and that we want to move here. Counselor, I myself asked you about the inspection that is carried out in the residences and you answered me, eight months ago, and we did it from the will to want to control the service that is being given to the relatives of the residences. Addressing the most vulnerable should be an absolute priority of the Government – we will say so whenever it is necessary. We can't leave our elders without attending at home waiting for evaluation or waiting for the waiting list; it can't be that when they get to occupy the square, and under conditions in many damaged cognitive cases, they aren't treated well. Therefore, we ask you to prioritize and take immediate action to solve the urgent problems that exist in the residences of all Catalonia. We have tabled amendments to the text with a view to enriching it, in particular with regard to the fulfilment of workers' working conditions in residences. We would like to stress that the Generalitat has competence in labour inspection and must ensure that the working conditions of workers are met and that there are no excesses in working shifts or in the performance of functions that do not correspond to them by professional category. We have also tabled amendments to improve public tariffs, not just to benefit companies, but to benefit workers' working conditions and to benefit service and quality in service. We support this motion virtually in its entirety, hoping that action will be taken immediately. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.240.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Valencia. The words "Mr. Josep Maria Forné", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.241.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies, has gone out..., and also, please, left me the family of users of residents of great people and the SOS Gent Gran platform of Barcelona; welcome to your home, which is the Parliament, which is the home of all. The word "dignity" has come out several times, and here, in the background, in this young man who is barred behind is the subject of dignity. Dignity can be a very abstract concept, but I'm sure the best way to define dignity is through a way of living, and the way of living dignity is the way that dignifies the lives of others, and dignifying the lives of others is dignifying the one who practices it. I say this because this way to dignify and this way to live is through ways to behave. One of these is to take care of those people they need most. The great people are one that can hold it, especially when dependence is added not only to the age, but also to their vital circumstances. That's why we congratulate this young man's initiative, the truth. We are totally separated from the catastrophe of some of the interventions that preceded us, which seemed as if here in Catalonia, well, it was a disaster. On the contrary, we don't think that's true. Now, it's also true that everything can get better, and this young man who seeks is to improve these conditions of dignity. We congratulate you, this young man; we congratulate you on the initiative and we also congratulate you on your willingness to agree, because I think that I can highlight you and especially Mrs Marta Ribas, as well as some of the Members with whom we have negotiated, despite the fact that, in the end, we may not reach any agreement at all, but in this case, both Mr Raúl Moreno and Mr Sánchez, so... there has been a willingness to find agreements. Thank you for that. The motion consists of two parts, it has already been repeated. And one is that it refers to the intervention of the department in the five residences that it renews the conditions of departure, and I think that this is an agreement that is unanimous, and we congratulate the council for the firm compromise that has been made. And then there's another set of proposals, this young man, that what they're looking for is to improve the management of residences, and in this sense it means that we've come to deal with issues and points of all groups in all points less in one, and that's where I'm going to put up with a_second to explain why our position is counter to point 3.2. It's been done, and that's the point of talking about the best of public fees. We agree, until the point that we proposed an alternative text that started literally as this point begins: "Thousands of public tariffs. We do not agree with the application that makes this better of the public tariffs, exactly in the wording that it is written, that it says that this better is to translate into a 60_per_cent in the working conditions of the workers and the rest in the better of the service of the users. We believe that this determination of so much is a mistake that more harms users, and more harms users, and more is not just with those businesses, those entities – because there is everything – that work in the world of residence very well and respect the under and look at the quality of the workers. What this proposal will do, if it comes to approval, is amplify an injustice that is produced in wage inequalities, because what you are doing is, these inequalities, reproduce them in a 60_per_cent in their application. We believe – we believe – that these better things should be, but with freedom and the possibility that the arrangements can be regular. We believe in the tool of convenience – in fact, it's the next point – which we value and potential. And that's why this point 3.2, we will vote against, to give merit to those companies and entities that do it well, that there are and that there are many and that if anyone, according to how, you have listened to the previous interventions, it seemed that exclusively what these companies do is look for their benefit and harm the users. And that's not true, nor is it correct. And, finally, thank you for this initiative. To say that today I felt, in another context, that the conflict Catalonia - Spanish State is going to resolve in favour of the one who managed to identify most of his citizens with his dignity. In this sense we believe, therefore, that this young man is a step further in identifying our reasons. And that's why we congratulate this young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.242.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Forné. Next, in order to fix his position, Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.243.0	Thank you, President. Also, family members of affected people and people to the residences you've been accompanying us today. Look, I'll never forget when my parents told me in 14 years: "During these very months we'll have our way home, which is very big and now she'll be home with us and you'll take care of being with her every night for her. For me it was a very important shock, because I had the acceleration and the immediacy of adolescence and that culture, I say, vital rock with experience, with a life like a slow camera. And, then, this shock for me was interesting to understand also the dignity of the great people. And always, then, in time, I think you could have done more, right? That's what you always think when someone's gone. And I think that, like society, we would also think that we would have done much more for our big people. In this adolescent society – that we are all a little teens – of the image, the immediacy, the press, the frantic action, the cult of the body..., of course, where are the great people? So much for politics, huh? Where are the big people? And we've got her here, and we've got to get to the bottom of this. We have a third-age population every time we're bigger, and we're not ready and we're not doing things right. I will talk about some concrete cases that follow us later, but, more generally, we have a sector that has been struggling for a few years. And I don't love everyone's responsibility, huh? So... also the decisions of the central government, of all. But the sector has spent a few years hard, with payments, with detail, with huge financial difficulties. We have very poorly paid workers with a high social value – and I know the first-hand theme – and then I'll talk about this point. We have some unfinished lists of hope. We have in Barcelona 350,000 people of more than sixty-five years and five thousand places of residence. That's, like, an absolute shift. And, therefore, I think, counsel, that when the storm has passed, when the storm has passed late – if there is someone left here – we would have to pose with this theme, which is a very important theme: which model we want to attend to at the third stage and how we stand and what we do. Because we're not up, and we have a very important problem. We found ourselves then, already approaching the focus in Barcelona, an unacceptable problem that..., as Mr Forné said now, to which I always thank his willingness to compromise and his country, so we have had a very serious problem, which has affected the dignity of many people. And, therefore, we ask the Generalitat – it has already done this – that I act, that I call a new contest the coming year, that I immediately supervise these centers because it is complete..., and it is superseding the shortcomings. We are..., and the socialist deputy said it – we too –, we talked about it, huh? But we are in favour, on such a delicate subject, of unannounced inspections. I mean, big people don't play games. But just like I'm saying, I'm also saying we need to help the sector a lot more; the sector is over, the sector can't. We must review the rates, we must also increase the economic support and the rates; that is, you are absolutely out of date. And also, from an economic point of view, which here is raised, to the young man, we would support that the economic criterion does not follow the decision. Various parameters must be taken into account. In the end, the important thing is that it is a dignified, professional, personal attention for the great people. But one thing is that the economic criterion is not the main one, with which we are very much in agreement, and another thing is to say that third-sector companies are prioritized, to which I have a great esteem and which we have a common relationship, but they also have their interests, third-sector companies – here everyone has their interests. And are we in a society where intentions are not prejudiced – or do we want to abolish freedom of conscience here? I mean, intentions are free. At each school, at its public, private life, what is valued are the results, and what is valued is how people are held. And if someone is okay, what's important is this and not so much what is the intention of the people who push the project. I mean, there's no equivalence between good intent and good service; many times, yes; but other times, no. I, for the last time – I'm finished – I'm very surprised – I'm very surprised – that the PDECAT has votes [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] and carries its model of giving priority and preference to the third sector. Because I want freedom and everyone can compete, each with their own intentions. And on the issue of wage growth, we've been thinking a lot, it's not the essay we would have liked. We think it's an over-interventionist redaction and that Parliament is not a business committee...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.244.0	Mr. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.245.0	... – I'm finished – but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.246.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.247.0	... – I finish, President – but, with the unions and with the employer, we agree that the tariff should be increased and that the salaries of these people who have such an important and socially decisive role should also be increased. And, therefore, we will vote in favour of this point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.248.0	Mr. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.249.0	...as the impulse, because the Generality...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.250.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.251.0	... acting in favour of an increase in wages and tariffs. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.252.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. To pronounce on the papers has the word Ms. Marta Ribas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.253.0	Thank you, President. Well, we very much appreciate the views of the various parliamentary groups. The truth is that we have incorporated strength; there has been, I think, a great deal of willingness to try to agree on many of the points and with many specifications, which have been incorporated. Thank you to all of us. I think it's important that we make things clear, what we're talking about. We are talking about measures to ensure worthy attention for our citizens, the great people, who are part of our citizens. But we're also talking about not allowing basic public services to be used as a business nix. Because companies, yes, obviously have all the right to do benefits. The intentions are clear, Mr. Sanchez, correct, but the public service must not be where the business is going. And that's what we're talking about for the most part about the measures we're putting in this place; why we're trying to solve this problem with unworthy attention in our homes. And to solve this problem, the dignity of workers and workers. And I greet the people of the Workers' Commissions of this sector who are accompanying us today. [[Greetings.]] Without dignity in working conditions, what are we talking about in a service for people, but about the staff who reach people? You can't guarantee a good service. Therefore, yes, we should like this sector, which should be a sector of stable and correct and dignified employment generation, no longer be a sector of poor employment generation. To make this the right català, yes. But in order to do the right català, more resources are being used. And that's not just what the unions say, they say the same thing: either it's better public fees, or it's better money, it's more money that is given to businesses, and, more importantly, it's conditional, as we put it in this place, than a good part of that money – most of that money – goes to better jobs, or there won't be better working conditions, or it won't be suitable again – Catalan agreement – in the sector, or it won't be better either for our big people. Do we want to solve the poor attention of our great people? Resolve the working conditions of the staff of these services. And that's better than the rates. The parliament will give you this leader, councillor. I hope they fill it in. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.254.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.255.0	Thank you, President. To ask for a separate vote on points 5.4 and 5.7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.256.0	5.4 and 5.7. Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.257.0	For us, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.258.0	Mr. Forné, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.259.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 3.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.260.0	3.2 – 3.2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.261.0	And for us they can also vote together on 5.4...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.262.0	Both of them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.263.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.264.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.265.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.266.0	Say, five points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.267.0	Point 5.7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.268.0	Therefore, 5.4 and 5.7 cannot vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.269.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-13-3902.270.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] Separate votes have been requested from points 3.2, 5.4 and 5.7, which cannot be voted together. Therefore, we will vote first on these three points and then on the rest of the motion. We'll vote on point 3.2. The vote begins. Point 3.2 was approved by 66 votes to 60, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on point 5.4. The vote begins. The 5.4_point was approved by 116 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 5.7. The vote begins. The 5.7_point was approved by 92 votes in favour, against and 34 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the situation of the residents of the great people has been approved by 126 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Thank you all very much. The session's up.
