ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.1.0	The session begins, very good morning to everyone. In the first place, let me give the welcome to Mrs. Marta Ribas, who joins today, after her motherhood; welcome. [[Greetings.]] [[Manifestation of adherence to the Week of Hours]] The Parliament, as an institution committed to the promotion of hourly reform, we have added to the fourth edition of the Hourly Week, which takes place between June 12 and 18, with the aim of making the hourly reform visible and promoting in the different spheres of society. The list of questions to answer orally is included in the folder. In accordance with Rule 161.1 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first item on the agenda of this plenary session. Mr. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.2.0	Yes, good morning, Madam President. For a point of order, if you will allow me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.3.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.4.0	All right. Madam President, this morning, when we got the Members of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party to our space, to our political group, we had a surprise and we saw how a space was enabled that was nothing but a zule, huh? , has enabled as a dispatch for another Member, another Member who is not a member of the People's Party Group. As you will understand perfectly, it does not seem that it is the most recommanable that the Group of the People's Party has its despots and its administrative services where a Member does not form part of this group, for the same Member and, obviously, for the day-to-day action of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. Therefore, Madam President, as I am aware that my group partners, the spokesman, the deputy spokespersons, have carried out this anxiety on the days ahead, this situation is anomalous to the members..., I do not know if you, but to the rest of the members of the Bureau, would ask you, as the President of the Parliament and, therefore, the highest political officer but also administratively responsible for this institution, to make a commitment to return to normality. For a matter of the same personal dignity...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.5.0	Mr. García...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.6.0	... – I finish now, Madam President – because of the same personal dignity of this Member, who, I repeat, is in a position. And the second, for a question of organization and functioning close to the People's Group. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.7.0	Mr García, the questions of order are for a question of the plenary. This is not a question of the plenary, this is a question that must be resolved by the Bureau and the Board of Spokespersons. In any case, not here, that we are in a plenary session. [[Ask the Government about toll freeways]] [[310-00238/11]] The first question to the Government is about the toll freeways, formulated for Mr Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.8.0	Thank you, President. Mr Councillor, on 16 November last year, Parliament approved the re-establishment of the toll crew. The aim was to agree on a new management model. The Secretary of Mobility, we've seen you announce a new model. Can you explain why he didn't put the table together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.9.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.10.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, you know exactly what the dynamic is that we have in relation to managing not just the tolling lives, but the road network. We started a round of contacts, we started with parliamentary groups – we met with you and with other spokespersons from various parliamentary groups – and we took on various actors: professional colleges, unions, employers, RACC, universities... so that we could talk about it and talk about it on the ground. Now, at the end of this month of June-July, we will have the opportunity to share these conclusions, and it will be then, as we have planned, that we will convene the tolling work group, expanded with all these actors, and see if it is possible to agree on a model that is not just for the management of pay lives, but for the management of the Catalan road network. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.12.0	Miri, Mr. Counsellor, we agree on one thing: that the year 2019 and the year 2021 must recover the concessions of the motorways to Catalonia. You have raised a winery; as the plantation, we have not just seen it, because what we want to ask is: in which study of impact on demand makes the proposal..., or on the basis of this proposal makes the proposal for a flat rate? The flat rate only charges the vehicle's grip, and not its use, and therefore favours the most intensive use of the private vehicle. This tariff, as you have put it, or it seems to us that it is planted, does not regulate the demand for the use of the private vehicle and, on the contrary, can encourage the mass use of the private vehicle, to the detriment of public transport. We believe it is a recaptancy measure and easy to apply, yes, but deeply regressive and encouraging, I repeat, of the private vehicle. The proposal, as it has been put forward, we believe it is on a different line from the directives of the European Union. Today, technology already exists; for example, in Portugal it is already being used, and it allows charging, depending on the use, to segment demand per hour, for the type of vehicle, to favor the hours of the valley, the less polluting vehicles, to increase the rates before episodes of contamination..., in short, a more sustainable mobility. One more thing, Counselor: Highways with the highest traffic load are those of the State, at these times, which are the ones that accumulate the most traffic. Did you talk to the ministry about it? Will they apply a homogeneous model? Did they talk about transpating? Are you looking for confrontation with the state, if you haven't spoken to the ministry? We believe that an agreement with the State is necessary; without agreement in the system or in the transfer of highways to the Generality this will not be possible. The end of concessions is an opportunity to make active policies to regulate demand for mobility. We also need to talk about the end of the 2039 grant. Mr. Counselor, gather and push the toll crew.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.13.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Counselor Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. I really appreciate the layout you're doing, because you've put all the fish in the trencaclosque. We're talking about a very complex, very complicated theme. The first idea – and it's what we want to see whether it's consensual or not – is whether Catalonia has a right to have a model for managing high-capacity lives and the conjunction of the road network, in a country that pays more tolls than the rest of the State, and in the country there are businesses that pay more tolls than in other communities, and we have a part of Catalonia that has no motorways or highways, which is under a high level of disinvestment. We have a problem, which we cannot allocate enough resources to public transport, because we have mortgage assumptions, for example, with tolls in the shade. Or improve with tolls; you don't have a sense of meaning, that's the way it is. And, therefore, we need a suitable model. You said to me, "Have you not spoken to the Spanish government? Yeah, we haven't talked, and we haven't talked with a lot of good predisposition. And the Spanish government has said to us: "No, you don't have the right to have a suitable model, you don't have the right to set up any initiative. You don't have the right..., we don't appreciate any initiative you take in this sense. I don't think we can, say, resign. We have to decide whether we want to embrace a modernizing country agenda, incorporating environmental factor, incorporating maintenance, incorporating territorial balance, as advanced fans of the rest of Europe. Germany is on this line that we are setting up, and we believe that it is a good line of transition towards what they set out the European directives. What we would like, to be able to reinforce among all this idea: we want to have a country-friendly model and a model that is economically, socially, environmentally sustainable and that allows us to balance the country territorially. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Rull. [[Ask the Government about primary health care]] [[310-00239/11]] Second question to the Government, on the primary care of salvation, formulated for the Assumpta Escarp lady, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.16.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention were not recorded.]] The primary care, the key to our health care system, the element of cohesion and the fight against inequalities in health, is in crisis; but many years ago it is in crisis, you know: let us reduce assumptions, no investments, reduction of the salaries of your professionals, precariousness and loss of jobs. We haven't talked many times here all in this Parliament. On May 22, with light and sound and many powerpoints, you presented the national strategy of primary care and community health, which should be the basis for the future of primary care. They and the professionals who have suffered all the tensions during all these years to do..., above all, they have suffered them not to bring them back on the assistance, today they look at this place with a barrier of opportunity, while with much distrust. The plan, they say, does not generate any credibility that helps overcome the current disenchantment, and, moreover, they believe that it will not overcome the distrust between professionals and Administration. And they are not appreciation of the month of generation, as you have said, or surpassed, as you say; they are girls with knowledge of content and on the part of some of the participants. That's why, counselor, I'd like to ask you what your understanding of the skepticism surrounding the presentation of this national strategy is.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Member of the Commission, I would not like to think – I do not want to do this – that you are either worried or disappointed by the fact that the primary care is coming out of the box and you are beginning to overcome the crisis in which you have been all these years. Because you know perfectly well that this year, for the first time, the primary attention is coming to you the two things that the primary attention took some time to ask for, that were more resources... You know perfectly well that 155 primary care teams, this year, a few months ago, came back with a letter where they wonder what is the additional presupposition they will have from the new payment model that prioritizes the socio-economically less-favorable areas. But, more important than that, the other thing that asked for primary attention was a new model, and we already have it. And I don't know who you're talking to. I'm probably talking to more professionals and I'm talking to a lot of professionals about primary care every week, and the Enapist has been rejected with hope, basically the Enapist has been rejected with hope, as you say, for sure, the document of the College of Metges, which is the first to admit that the Enapist now needs an implementation that makes it credible. I would remind you, only as a reminder, that the other major reform of primary care that took place in Catalonia in democracy had to last for two years; it lasted for twenty years. We have talked about a reform of primary care practically comparable to that, which should be possible in five years, six years. We introduced her two months ago and she's already starting to implement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.19.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Escarp."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.20.0	Thank you. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, in no case do I believe that neither we, nor the professionals, nor the entities and associations that have participated in the Enapisc, but that, in some way, they have also signed the manifestos, like the Collège de Metges, cannot accept his claim that primary care is improving. It hasn't gotten better this year, it hasn't even gotten out of the crisis. What do they ask for in these documents and what do they all ask for? They're asking for a lot more work, a clear implementation schedule. They want urgent measures: they want to know how many of the 2,400 interveners who will go out to the public offer go to the primary; they want measures that reflect the willingness to change, organisational measures, to appropriate management to primary teachers, to manage their own agendas, to fight against precariousness, to the portfolio of primary care; they want to simplify the bureaucratic tasks that generate lost time and effort. They are urgent measures, of common sense, that they do not see in the plan; they do not want a utopia, they want realities. My counsel, it's not a massatge question, as they'll do later. My group's, my group's, is to make it clear that big names don't mean big or better contents. Thank you. [[You're saying, "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.21.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.22.0	Congresswoman, 23_millions for the new funding model and 10 for the replacement bag are not great powerpoints, they are money that the primary care teams are getting, and you know it. But it is that, moreover, we said that the implementation of the Primary Care Plan will be led by a council, which will govern the deployment of this plan, which is already created, which is now created, this month of June. The measures of the plan that are already being implemented? Of the fifty main measures of the plan, which are already being implemented, there could be many: the new model of assignment; the contracting of Community agents; the incorporation of public health teams into the primary; the one hundred and fifty professionals of mental health; the transposition of the ECAPs; the actual implementation of the new model of choice of the directives, the democratic ratification of the directives of the teams by the professionals. Everything you ask me is on the board, everything you say is on the board, because the sector, the board did it. And they say to you the same thing they say to me: "We are already beginning to implement it. Remi in favour, the country will be pleased – remi in favour – and the professionals too, indeed, honourable Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the creation of a nature agency]] [[310-00241/11]] Third question to the Government, on the creation of an agency of nature, formulated for Mrs Hortènsia Grau, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.24.0	Thank you, President. Counsel Serret, what is the position of his department before the announcement of the Department of Territories and Sustainability of the creation of the agency of nature and the counter-reaction that this announcement has provoked in a significant part of the forest owners, pages and branches?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.25.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.26.0	As a matter of fact, I've changed my mind, I don't know the Serret councilwoman, as if we say... [[Rialles.]] He said: "Not yet – not yet. Well, everything's possible – everything's possible. [[Rialles, see for yourself and a few applause.]] No... I answer on behalf of the government and the government acts with this proposal, which is absolutely transcendent. I spoke earlier about the country's modernizing agenda. The agency of nature, the agency of natural heritage, is one of the most powerful elements of this modernizing country agenda. The government is committed to it as a whole: it is the Department of Territories and Sustainability, it is committed to the Department of Agriculture and we are committed to the government. With what mechanism? What we wanted to share with you, which is to process it through not a bill, but a bill that the various parliamentary groups can do themselves. That's the idea. What are we planting? Miri, yesterday the government approved the guiding principles of the biodiversity strategy, and it was proposed not only by the Territorial and Sustainability Councillor, but jointly by the Territorial Councillor and the Agricultural Councillor. This is a good line of work. What do we need? Coordinator..., coordination, consensus between the administrations, the productive sectors, the conservationists and the world of research. We think we can get out of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.27.0	Thank you, Counselor. Reply to Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.28.0	Thank you, Counselor. Miri, Counselor... [[relays]] , we are aware of the pressures you have put on your department from the productive sectors which are economically powerful, such as forest owners, the great agro-branchers, who have reacted very smoothly before the creation of this agency; but who, in turn, have kept quiet during all these years when they dismantled and abandoned their natural environment policies and where they were free to act. They are the very ones who are revolting, for example, because they say: "Oh, the territory does not have the capacity to endure the bones and the faces. But, on the other hand, they don't say anything about the 7_millions and swine fever – that you see that the territory does have the capacity to endure – that they have contaminated our aquifers and that we now have to pay with money for all the cleanness of these aquifers for the purins. It's the lords of the forest, the lords of the water, the lords of the hunt. They are these great forest owners who for many years have rejected a lot of EAFRD money by making a bad management, which did not maintain diversity, or do not – or do not – make it – of the forests. Therefore, in conscious soc: you are the advisor of the branch and answer all these pressures. That is why our question was intended to tell you that you will have all our support, but that you must be brave. You have to be brave and firm in front of these lobbyists. You must ally yourself with the councillor who is answering me today, and that, since the government is firmly responsible, they must ally themselves to collide – to collide – the creation of the agency, to establish alliances between these productive sectors, which have all their legitimate interests, but which, in the face of its benefits, must also pose the common good. Therefore, they must lead together. And he must also be able to listen to the four hundred entities, the professional colleges, the universities. Because, counsel, you know: on the margin of who owns it, natural heritage is a common good, and a common good that the best we can do to the country is to preserve it, for now and for future generations. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.29.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. Counselor Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.30.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member, I would like to stress this point once again: the power of the proposal we make as a government, in relation to the agency of natural heritage, is that it is not the proposal of a department, it is the proposal of a government. And our claim is that it is not the proposal of a government, but rather the proposal of the Parliament itself. There are certain structures, which we call structures of state, which have power in the measure that they are very durable in time, which means that, governments that govern the country, the country felt reflected. We have seen the best experiences at European level. We've seen what France does, we've seen what Denmark does, we've seen what Gal·les does. We want to do exactly the same: have an agency of these characteristics. I think we'll get better out of it in the measure that the Department of Agriculture is doing this job of holding this consensus. As an advisor to Medi Ambient, I feel very well picked up, on this path to the agency of natural heritage, for the Department of Agriculture. It is with this cross-sectional view that we can get out and we can get out better. We believe that consensus is possible because we are talking about beneficial action for the country's side, for the territory's side. We are convinced that we can have your support and your understanding. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.31.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Ask the Government about the presuppostarial resources planned to organize the referendum]] [[310-00236/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the budgetary resources envisaged to organize the referendum, formulated for the Lord Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.32.0	Thank you, President. Neither France, nor Italy, nor Germany, nor Finland, nor Norway, among others, permit the holding of independent referendums or the approval of budget lines supporting them. Do you consider, Mr Junqueras, that they are demophobic countries because they have exactly the same legislation as Spain? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good morning, Mr. Fernández. As you are sure, we..., I, in particular, am absolutely convinced that it is possible to preserve among all the democratic principles, the general experience of law, international law and in particular human rights, as the European Court of Human Rights with its own in Strasbourg reminded us yesterday.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.35.0	Thank you, Vice President. I have the word Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, we've been in office for 20 months, and you never answer the questions you're asking. It seems that it goes first in the polls – I congratulate you on it – but that doesn't make you a special or superior human being, you're not the last cookie in the package. [[Rialles.]] I would therefore ask you to answer the questions put to you. I will start again: neither France, nor Germany, nor Italy, nor Norway, nor Finland allow unilateral referendums of independence. And you, instead of accepting that we share legislation with the rest of the great democracies of the world, have established a strategy to caricaturize Spain as a demophobic country, obviating elements such as that The Economist, which is not exactly pro-Spanish, points out that Spain is one of the twenty best democracies in the world, above Italy, France or the United States. Spain shares legislation... [[remorse of the voice]] Spain shares legislation with the best democracies in the world and not with what you are doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.37.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.38.0	What you are doing is not what the great democracies of the world do. What you are doing and the example that inspires you is the ultras of Finland or that you are getting more and more dangerously close to Umberto Bossi's friki supremacism. It's not a free reference Umberto Bossi Do you know what your two main political arguments were? The first: « Rome thieves – its version of« Italy steals from us, does it sound like anything to you? The second: « Italy is not democratic, we have to get out. I guess that sounds like something to you, too. They have only one way left, one, to comply already with the precepts of Bossi's friki supremacism. He went out on a dock in Venice to solemnly declare independence, before the jolgory of a few and the indifference of the vast majority, which he looked at as if he had gone out to sing there Torrebruno. [[Rialles.]] That is the path you have decided to take, that of genuine international sluggishness. And that marks and defines two clearly defined blocs: that of the great democracies of the world, which do not allow the holding of independence referendums – France, Spain, Italy, Germany, Finland, Norway and the whole European Union – and the other bloc, that of the genuine demophobics, that is, Umberto Bossi, the ultra-Finnish and, unfortunately, you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by the Vice-President, Mr Oriol Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.40.0	Mr. Alejandro, let's, first of all, congratulate you because I am sure that you have done the intervention with the utmost rigour that you have been able to do. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Second of all, I don't think he asked me a question, and so, as if he didn't ask me a question, I don't know exactly what I expected you to answer. But anyway, I let you clarify some aspects, huh? You, for example, cited Norway. Norway is an independent country because it made a self-determination reference. You mentioned countries with France, which allowed references to self-determination of some of the territories that were part of, considered "departmental"... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Listen!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.41.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.42.0	I always...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.43.0	Respect the chorus of words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.44.0	... – exact–, I always listen to them with a lot of interest, because I try to learn something from their interventions. Now, let me explain this to you again. France has done so, for example, with New Caledonia; the United Kingdom has done so with respect to Northern Ireland and Scotland. Therefore, the difference is not in that the Parliament of Catalonia, the majority of Parliament, the Catalan society wants to respect that which has previously made so many Western democracies, so many liberal democracies, such as, for example, Norway respects Sweden, Iceland respects Denmark, Ireland respects the United Kingdom, Scotland respects the United Kingdom, etcetera. The difference is that all these states respect – Sweden, Denmark, the United Kingdom, Canada – accept this democratic principle, accept the principles that derive from the general experience of law, international law, which at these times the Government of the Kingdom of Spain does not do. In the same way that the Government of the Kingdom of Spain is sentenced, for example, also for the Constitutional Court, when you tell them that your tax amnesty was illegal. And while you are dedicated to allowing a mass fraud employed for an unconstitutional law, we are dedicated to working for the welfare of the citizens of Catalonia and, if you will allow me, also for the citizens of the Kingdom of Spain, that I am convinced that with us you will always have a much better ally than with you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.45.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the impact of corruption on the assumptions]] [[310-00240/11]] Five questions to the Government, on the impact of corruption on the presuppostaris funds, formulated for Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.46.0	Well, good morning to everyone, president, counselors, deputies, deputies. Thank you, President. Well, corruption is not just an ethical scourge, it's also a legal scourge and it's also a scourge, as you know, economic. Recent CNMC studies place around 90,000_million_of_euros at the cost of corruption to all Spaniards. There are even more comprehensive studies, by economists as well as here, from Catalonia, that talk about costing us about 200,000_million_euro corruption to all citizens. This study also takes into account everything that is not done because of the bites, anything that is not built or works that are done so that some take 3 percent. I would like to know, at the level of Catalonia, if you have calculated how much corruption costs us to all Catalans, how much money goes through the sewer of corruption. And if not, I'd ask you to do that study, Mr. Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.47.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.48.0	Good morning, Mr. De Paramo. Good morning to all the deputies again. As I have just replied in a previous intervention, the same Constitutional Court considers that it is illegal a fiscal amnesty promoted by the Spanish Government and that it has allowed a lot of money that should have been placed in the service of hospitals and schools of the joint venture of the Spanish society, also of the Catalan society, therefore, have been defrauded. So, all of our concern for this collaborative attitude with the fraud, all of our understanding at the time of pursuing this, is to say..., and that's what we do. So, what do we do, the government of Catalonia? As you know, because we had occasion to explain it – and, in any case, it is always a pleasure to be able to remember it – in the two later years we have raised 360_million euros of tax fraud. Bearing in mind that we are responsible at these moments of the recaptacle approximately of a 3_per_cent, of a 4_per_cent of the fiscal effort of the citizens of Catalonia, it seems to me that it is a respectable xifra. And in any case, as you also know, we are working to be responsible for the totality of this fiscal effort, and therefore for the totality of the prosecution of the tax fraud, to put it in the service of the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.49.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.50.0	Thank you, President. I see you very concerned today about the tax amnesty; tell Mr Puigdemont, who has you sitting next to him, because Convergence voted in favour of a tax amnesty. [[Greetings.]] Mr Puigdemont voted in favour. I'm saying it because..., and I'm telling you... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, Convergence. The tax amnesty was thanks to Convergence, to protect their comrades, the Pujol. But, in any case, Mr Junqueras, I ask you this question because this is the image of Mr Junqueras: you do nothing to fight against the corruption of your partners that you have sitting next to you, you do nothing. You were on lists with Convergence, you are the Vice President of the Convergence Government, and what did you demand to fight corruption, you, Mr Puigdemont in your investiture? What did you demand? Nothing, zero potato, Mr. Junqueras, required nothing to fight corruption. Do you know what the proof is? That when Citizens support a government..., and we're not in the government nor are we going on lists with them, do you know where those accused of corruption are? Home. And do you know where the corruption suspects of your government team and your party are? Sit there. That's the difference between supporting a government like you do. Do you know what you do, Mr. Junqueras, when we ask for Mr. Puigdemont's appearance to talk about 3% and the Palau case? Do you know what you're doing? Vote against. You protect Convergence because you gave a blank check to the corrupt Convergence, you gave them a blank check to be vice president, you sold through that chair, Mr. Junqueras, and you have become the favorite partner, you are the ideal accomplice of the gentlemen of Convergence, because you are independent and because you cover your corruption. You've got it all, you're the dream accomplice of Convergence. Look, we're sick of pies, Mr. Junqueras. Mr. Puigdemont covers you with the Vidal case commission and you, in return, covers you with 3 percent and the Palau case and hides you from..., come to appear. You've become an ideal couple, covering each other's dirty rags. Look, Mr. Junqueras, I don't know if you will become President of the Generalitat, but what is certain is that you have become today's 3 percent crutch. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.51.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. The vice president's answer. [[The applause continues.]] The vice president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.52.0	Thank you, President. Another time, good day to everyone. Thank you, Mr. de Paramo. And that's all the representative says, a member of a political party that Mr. Rajoy has invested, that caps the People's Party with more than nine hundred accused of corruption cases, tells the president of a party that after eighty-six years of history there is no case of corruption. Brutal. [[Greetings.]] Brutal. I hope that after this reflection you will have the opportunity to internalize it, beyond the applause that I am sure you deserve from your companies and that therefore you can convey it to yourself. In any case, as the international institutions, Transparency International, etc. say, the Government of Catalonia and the institutions of Catalonia deserve a very high qualification, the highest of the public administrations of the Spanish State respects transparency. This is our commitment, as demonstrated in our daily action, in our daily decisions. And it will continue to feel and we will continue to work to raise these disappointed millions of euros, as we are doing, because we are putting them to the service of all the citizens of Catalonia, obviously, as well as those who vote for you with all the legitimacy of the world. This is the work that we do while others are dedicated to performing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.53.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the latest unemployment data]] [[310-00242/11]] Sisena asks the Government, about the latest data on unemployment, formulated by Mr Bernat Solé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.54.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, the latest data recorded at the time clearly show us, and in a continuous way, a trend towards an increase in employment, concretely 60,715 people who did not work a year ago have already joined the world of work, assuming an annual reduction of the time in 12,9_per_cent. As a result, the number of persons affiliated with social security has increased by 4_per_cent compared to the month of May of last year, which places us at a level equivalent to November of 2008. Certainly they are frankly positive data and show a clear recovery in many economic and social spheres. Despite all this, today we still need caution and to extend these increases in employment to sectors with more ease and less conditional on seasonality. In the same way, we cannot forget that today the downfall in annual data is almost twice as much in men as in women and that today the timing of contracts and job insecurity are still one of the most important problems in our country. Specifically, 295,000 new contracts were registered in the past month, of which only 12.4_per_cent were indefinite. From the Parliamentary Group of Juntes per el Si we are fully aware that these favourable data would not be obtained without effective employment policies and equipped with the corresponding parties of the suppositions. And in this sense, we place in value the task due to end for the Occupational Service of Catalonia through its network of offices and all its professionals, through the different programs aimed at reducing the time, to professionally orient the length of time or to increase the professional qualification, both for what it does to the active people as to the people that at these times still do not have a contract of employment. For all the talk, will you advise, who are the strategies that are due to the end of the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families so as to further improve the employment data both at the level of quantity and quality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.55.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Solé. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.56.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. As I can think, from the government, the words we have before this downfall are satisfying. The year-to-year atmosphere in Catalonia has declined for forty-seven months as a result. But, in addition, this month of May the reduction was the highest since May 1999. So we can't help but be happy. But, as you said very well, I have to wait at the end of the season to see who keeps the job, so if it strengthens the occupation, and what kind of work we are doing. That's why, from the Occupation Service of Catalonia, which is the second best thing we have together with the Labour Inspectorate, because in the rest we don't have skills, we're working. Therefore, a very important tool, just like the professionals who are working there. That's why we presented that we invest EUR 870 million in employment policies, which is in support of work. For the first time unanimously at the Board of Directors of the Occupational Service of Catalonia on planning and programming for the year 2017 and 2018; therefore, agents, municipalist entities, trade unions and employers agreed on how we planned and planned. A planning that prioritizes specialized collections needed, but also all sectors and all ages. Among these collections I want to highlight, for example, that of young people, with Youth Guarantee, that precisely this month we have managed to look 'as a special prize of the Assembly of Regions of Europe for the better implementation in young people's policies. We have also started an evaluation process of policies and what impact they have on the policies of the Catalonian Occupation Service in users throughout Catalonia: 2_million attention to people from the jobs offices this year 2016 and, of the 30_1,000 jobs offered to businesses in the Catalonian Occupation Service, 50_per_cent have been covered by people who were in the Employment Service. We present novelties for the year 2017-2018 and are the driving force of the gender perspective, so specific programs for women, and also cross-cutting programs: we incorporate training into skills; programs for people who have never received benefits or subsidies, so, autonomous, and we introduce territorial rebalancing, important. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.57.0	Thank you, Constellera Bassa. [[Ask the Government about primary and community care]] [[310-00243/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on the primary and community care, formulated for Mrs Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning to all of you and to all of you. Good morning, Counselor. First of all, I'd like to make an incisor, now that it's World Donor's Day and..., that he says his motto that they'll make us put reds, but for a good reason, they'll tell us nice things when we participate today and whenever it's possible on blood donation days. We have a state structure, and the counselor knows it, essential, that allows for something as wonderful as saving lives. And now, I start with the question, which I am glad that the Socialist Group agrees with, and I am glad that we share concerns, but I would like to tell the Councilman that I will focus on him with a very different focus, from the back and the opportunities of the future. It began with the Declaration of Alma-Ata of 78, which already says that the most important social tape on a global level that we must embrace, that is to win this right to salvation for everyone, requires the participation of the health sector, but also of other social and economic sectors. Indeed, as the Councillor said, year 85 has captivated the primary care reform here and he has said very well: "Two years had to last, but in the end it lasted twenty years, and I say that after thirty years it has not yet unfolded in its totality and that one of the main aspects that remains to be implemented is the community orientation of primary care. Why do we need this community guidance? What do we mean by community salvation? So community salvation is the collective expression of the salvation of people and groups of a defined community. And that leads us to include everything that we often talk about, because it's very important in our mindset, that most of the determinants of salvation are social determinants. We want primary attention that the person knows and that means that he knows what health problems he or she has in the future, giving his or her life style and the other determinants that identify him or her; that he or she knows how he or she lives; that he or she knows his or her preferences; if he or she becomes familiar that he or she can accompany him or her in his or her decisions. A primary care that knows its surroundings and the community where the person is related. We want it and we need it if we want to achieve the goals we've set for ourselves. And so, on May 22nd, the Enapist, the national strategy of primary care and community health, was presented. We will be able to intertwine this strategy with other strategies, not just social, education and justice, to give answers that are not fragmented to which it is a whole, that is the person. And today's primary focus has also to face these challenges, some structural and some survivors. Structural such as population aging and morbidity. And at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time as at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the same time, at the That is why I want to ask you, Counselor, before this situation, these challenges and opportunities, what do you think, Counselor, that must now be the government's response.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.59.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.60.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, thank you very much. As you say, there are many opposites: demographic change, aging, recovering from what the crisis has meant for the professional community, etc. Reforming primary care is reforming the health system, because primary care is the spine. Therefore, there can be no greater reform in a health system than the reform of primary care, so we understand the magnitude of the operation and that is why it is always about reforms that require enough years to be implemented. What do we want here? Here what we want is... we've done the planners, during this year, during this mandate we've done the planners of this new building, this one... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] And these planners tell us that we need community-oriented attention, you said very well, that we need to be able to integrate all health resources into a single network, so, from now on, the key concept will be..., it will not be the concept "the CAP, which is what we have in mind – forgive me the game of words, which is very painful – but the primary care network. From now on, we'll talk about the XAP, the primary care network. It's not: "I'm going to the CAP, it's: "I'm going to the network. There will be mental health; attention to chronicity; public health agents; continued care; Assyria, sexual and reproductive health... All health resources of proximity, organized around primary care. We also need these headphones, we need primary attention with more resolution capacity, and that's why we're going to define the advanced primary wallet and we're going to publish it, and it's going to be public and that's going to be an important change. We need to equip the plants, put in more professional, and we have made a calculation that is the most ambitious of all the calculations we have made, we have not talked about three thousand professional us, we have talked about five thousand professional us for primary care. But at what rate? At the rate that the presupposition allows, obviously. The autonomy of management. The autonomy of management means managing the own agendas, it means managing the resources of the premise of each primary care team, it means democratic election of the directors of the teams and all that, which is the building plan, we are already doing, because the building is already... [[For technical reasons, some words of the advisor's intervention have not been recorded.]] There's a lot of things we're already doing. The new assignment model is already out. Before that, the incorporation of community agents, territorial public health teams, the incorporation of mental health professionals, the transfer of the ECAP from the ICS to the Catalan Health Service... The new model of choice of primary care direct teams we wanted to set in march during the second semester. And during the second semester, of course, we also want to make the first call for the Sabbath years, which will be one of the things we will do to pamper professionals. Therefore, and this July, as I said before, will be the advisory committee. What do I mean by that? That we have not only introduced the Enapisc, but that we speak with the facts – facts, facts and facts. It's the language of this government: facts, facts and facts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.61.0	Thank you, Counsellor Comín. [[Ask the Government about the creation of a natural heritage agency]] [[310-00244/11]] Vuitena question to the Government, on the creation of an agency of the natural heritage, formulated for the Mrs. Violant Cervera, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor Rull, one of the great riches of our country, obviously after its citizens, is our horrific variety, the climate, the diversity of our landscape and our biodiversity. This wealth, as well as our population density and our intense and rich agricultural activity, which we would also like to put in value, is estimated that only in species could reach more than forty-thousand species, and in habitats we have 741 different habitats, between coastal, waterfowl, Mediterranean forests, humid forests, among others. 10_percent of our territory are natural or national parks; 32_percent are protected areas; and 90-four of these habitats are part of the Natura 2000 Network. In fact, Catalonia is leading in biologic diversity across Europe. To give an example, only the Garrotxa has a greater biological diversity than the whole of the United Kingdom. For all these years, while we have been able to match agricultural activity with the environment, the country has faced these legal obligations to conserve biodiversity with very limited resources, and today Catalonia continues to be a country with a large percentage of threatened species. The conservation policies of nature that we have been due to term have now donated their fruits. We have created PEIN since the year 92, the Natura 2000 Network in the year 2006, we have recovered threatened species, we have also recovered natural spaces and we have also reduced species threatened with biodiversity. Actions that may be reinforced with the creation of a more solid, integrated and stable structure that responds to the needs of our territory. In fact, during these years we have been doing so with other Catalan agencies – Catalan Agency of Residues, or meteorological ones – which have allowed, therefore, a better governance of our resources. It is for all these reasons, Counselor, that we take into account that we have an exceptional and important natural heritage in all parts of Europe; that we want to avoid the loss of biodiversity; that we do not want the management of the heritage to be a burden, but rather to allow living territories, actions and great opportunities; that we want this to be compatible with our economic activity, agriculture and the industry, mainly, and that the management of the heritage to be a source of pride, a differential fact of the country and an engine of development, economy and progress, we would like to ask, Counselor, if you believe that the creation of a natural heritage agency could be used for all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.63.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.64.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, you explained it very well. We are a country with an extraordinary biological diversity, with a first-class natural heritage, and we must be able to maintain it, to preserve it and, above all, to generate opportunities for the country as a whole. And that's why we want to push this instrument, an agency of nature that is a modern, decentralized, agile, management-oriented, well-funded, organization that helps to recover lost time. Because the last few years have not been fortunate, from that perspective. So now we have to catch up, we have to do it with a lot of other people, taking advantage of all the actors we have in the territories, from the primary sector, the territories, joints, the municipal world, the scientific future, too. We've got to make sure we put it in value. Fixed, when the environmental policies of this country began to be laid, a triangle was established, and there is a vertex that has been incomplete. In the water field, of the water vector, we were able to create the instrument – the Water Agency –, the tribute – the water channel –, legislation and planning. The same thing happened with residue. But on the other hand, in natural heritage, we've been stunned. We have the Spa of Natural Interest, we have the national parks, the national park and the natural parks, we have a planning, but we don't have the instrument that we have been able to establish in time. And so far we have no stable resources that allow us to invest in the territory to have a very important level of recovery. That is why this agency of nature must allow us to close this vertex well. We've seen it in other areas that worked for us and worked very well for us. And one last question, a date that we will not tire of repeating: every euro invested in the field of natural heritage, in a natural park or in a protected park, has a return of new euros. It is perhaps one of the policies of territorial balance and generation of opportunities in the most extraordinary country. We want to place ourselves at the top of the European level, at the top of the world level. We've been able to do this with other environmental policies. Now we're tanking this vertex, doing it together, doing it in a consensual way and, above all, that when we look at our children we know that we've left them a country, a better planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.65.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. [[Ask the Government about debt policies]] [[310-00237/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on debt policies, formulated for the lady Eulàlia Reguant, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.66.0	Good morning, President. Good morning, Vice President. Last May, coincidences of life, coinciding with the International Day of Work, you were traveling to the United States to, among others, tempt the return of the Generality to the markets; international markets known as envelopes, because we have already suffered them, and which are turned into a risk option when you do not want to touch privileges addressing a thorough tax reform, like you. More than a year ago this chamber approved a motion, at the institutions of my parliamentary group, the CUP - Crida Constituent, where, among others, the Government set itself to define a new framework that delimited policies of debt and structured financing for the future and so that it is limitless in situations of unsustainable debt as we live from a perspective of financial, social, environmental and gender sustainability. This new_mark, if it exists, is not public. Based on which brand did you meet with potential investors?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.67.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.68.0	Thank you, President. Another time, good day to everyone. Madam Reguant, this government, as I understand that any government of the world, works to have as many options as possible, as many tools as possible; in this area, too. We share or seem to share – and if not, it is always likely to discuss it so many times as it does – concern about excess debt, concern about the consequences these excesses have for social, environmental, etc. policies. I have made a kind of explanation of the negative consequences that come from the intergenerational debt that we can leave to the generations, that we are now making decisions to those generations that do not have the opportunity to take them at this time. In any case, what the government does, and will continue to do, is work to rearrange this debt structure, to improve the conditions of this debt, to improve conditions in the form of terms, types of interest, etc. And I am convinced that in this way we have many things to share.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.69.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's the word Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.70.0	Well, the new mark still doesn't exist, for what we see. Because, in fact, going to depend on international markets takes us to this snowball that you say you denounce, because it is widely known and, more importantly, it takes us to pay practically interest in breathing, as has been seen in many countries of southern Europe. And they are oblivious to one thing: while we are discussing whether international markets – you – or good patriotic ones created for a public bank, of no moment – like at least, we – an audit would allow us to define controls and guidelines for the financing policy to the Government, Parliament and the citizenry; an audit that, as we approved, would allow us to know what they owe and to whom and, above all, to lay down responsibilities and possible solutions. But to make it easier for the government, not only in Parliament, but also throughout the city, the maximum amount of information on debt and other financial commitments, such as structured financing. But the opacity on the subject and the childishness of the people continue to feel the mark of the house, despite the fact that parties like his now are part of the government. In fact, in front of petitions for information about the government's debt figures with the state and the private bank, girls both by parliamentary groups, by journalists, as by citizenship, you have denied them. Without access to information we cannot talk about processes that constitute, without access to information we cannot talk about real independence.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.71.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The vice president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.72.0	Well, in any case, just a little lightening to add. Among other things, this government is not more indebted to international markets; it has not done so, nor is it doing so at these times. Another thing is if in the future all folds consider that this is good, it is not good, that we need to do it, in which conditions we will do it, etc. But in any case, the government doesn't. He doesn't do it because he can't or can't do it for whatever reason he is, or because... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, but this government doesn't, it's evidence. Therefore, the external debt is not increasing, you must have increased another thing, but the external debt is not. Okay? Therefore, it seems to me that it is a first necessary clarification, because it is that, if not, of the intervention it would seem that we are in debt to the financial markets much more than we were already in. No, no, Zero. Therefore, another reflection also on respect, precisely one of the virtues of being responsible for the joint fiscal effort that our company does is that we would most likely not need any form of additional debt. And so, precisely for that we work. That is to say, this is the way, the way we are doing is the best, precisely, to guarantee full sovereignty also from this point of view. In any case, it will be the future governments, certainly not this, who will take decisions of respect, and in these future governments, so, listen, your opinion can be very determining or not, like mine or any other of the others who are here. In any case, I repeat, there is no additional debt in this area, the governments of the future will take the appropriate decisions, the Catalan Republic is the best guarantee because there is no need for this debt.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.73.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the Committee of International Experts and the other guarantees to be given by the October 1 referendum]] [[317-00161/11]] This question, to the President of the Generality, about the political and social situation, formulated for the Lord Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.74.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. President, last week, and in a matter of hours, we arrested the Barcelona Model and his government announced the date and question of the reference. We want to congratulate you on the two decisions and, more importantly, because somehow, almost in a poetic concatenation, it is produced in a few hours, right? It has a lot of symbolic and political strength for us that it is so much that it has been a center of pain, repression, torture and, even more so, death, like the Barcelona Model prison, and that this is done by linking it with a reference of republican construction. But, said that, and, let's say, therefore, with the congratulations ahead, not only to the Government but also to the bases of Pode, which have decided to add to this reference, our question is when and how will we know the guarantees that this reference must have. In the general policy debate we agreed among all that there would be a committee of experts for the follow-up of the self-determination process, integrated by people from the international arena and for prestigious jurists, and we said that this would be implemented before the end of 2016. How do we have this question?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.75.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Salellas, good morning. I would like to thank him for his sincere congratulations, which I am not only part of his group, but also for the broad spectrum of the parliamentary groups and of the Catalan society in general, for the decision to close the Model, which is a very clear way of moving from words to facts, and from words that lasted many years and from facts that were also expected many years ago, so that all of us, in particular the Councillor of Justicia, all of the Government, who have made it possible, because, indeed, I believe that we have given good news to the citizenry and a good message. Actually, it coincided, there was no cause-effect, but it coincided in time with the announcement of the date and the question of the referendum of October 1st. It's from this moment that we have to start working on what you ask. I believe that our obligation was to give, in short, all the confidence, all the time necessary to enable the possibility of agreeing on a reference to the State to be effective, and therefore we should not put any conditional on the world, on date, on question, or on commission, in this regard. But it is obvious that it is now time to complete with what forms part of the guarantees of the reference, and one of them, indeed, is the commission of international experts that you appointed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.77.0	Thank you, President. There's the word Mr. Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.78.0	So, at this point we agree, president, but we should try to get a little more concrete about the calendar, about how, right? because we, who are optimistic, think and trust that from that "referendum or referendum the Government has been working to deploy it, and we, who are optimistic, think that from the adoption of assumptions that we do not share, but that we approved under the condition of a reference, this Government was barring the development strategy of this reference, and we, who are optimistic, want to think that while seeking agreement with the State for a reference granted by the Government, it was continuing to seek to keep the tools to execute this reference. But, in any case, and beyond what the CUP - Creet Constituent thinks, which is certainly not important, if what we want to do is to make a reference on October 1 and that this reference is credible, what we need is not only guarantees, but also that we all know these guarantees and make the joint venture of the society that is part of the knowledge of these guarantees; guarantees that they have to see with the hundreds, guarantees that they have to see with the months and guarantees that they have to see with an indispensable campaign where there are those who defend the yes and there are those who defend the no. Therefore, we repeat: when will we know this calendar or what information can we give from this calendar, of credibility, firmness and political determination in the celebration of the referendum? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.80.0	Thank you very much. I think they're very good at being optimistic. Fixi's, optimism has led us here. If we hadn't been optimistic, so, probably, many of the difficulties we've encountered and what we've found, we wouldn't have had that conviction to overcome them. Because without optimism, indeed, there can be no guarantee or hope given to the citizenry. You ask one thing you're right about; that's to say, from now on I think it's up to us to know all the details. I have already advanced that, at the end of this month of June, like very late in the beginning of July – I think it will be more late in June than in the beginning of July – we will present all the technical and legal details that confirm that the reference will be made with all the guarantees. You know that there are some details that we have just to agree on, they are tight, but in any case the government's will is to be able to present to everyone, especially to the citizenry, all the technical and legal details because it has the absolute certainty that its optimism is well founded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.81.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality whether the ballot box for which the Government is bidding is for the October 1 referendum]] [[317-00160/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.82.0	Thank you. Mr. President, the past divestment gave us the penultimate parody of your government, huh? with the penultimate parody of his government, where he announced that they would pose date and question to a reference who knows perfectly well that it will not be celebrated. Mr. President, making a unilateral reference is pathetic, it has no legal coverage nor authority, neither moral nor social. Mr President, you intend to build an independent republic, and that is why you need courage. Therefore, they ask for this courage because you answer honestly and honestly: the ballot boxes that the Department of Governance is bidding for are for the referendum, yes or no?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.83.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.84.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. García Albiol, good morning. But it's only starting that he's talking about parody, pathetic. Let's leave it to them to harm one thing. When you speak of moral authority and political authority, look, please, the Parliament, because it is the reflection of the will of the citizens' votes. [[applause]] And here I think you've represented moral and political authority. [[Greetings.]] You have the right to think... you have the right to think about the Catalans who vote for independence, but I ask you to respect them just as everyone has to respect what everyone thinks, which you seem to be. And what has been reflected here in the Parliament of Catalonia, which is valid for me and I trust that for you, too, is a true image of the Catalans' will. And, therefore, from this point of view, I have all the moral and political authority. Second question. You ask me a question – I don't know if you're doing it as a prosecutor or you're doing it as a political leader – about something you consider "pathetic, but I'm very surprised about your interest in knowing details that don't fit into this, let's just say, description of something that you're following is impossible, and, in turn, for another band, you want to go exactly to the detail of whether certain ballot boxes are going to do for the reference. I could ask myself about the bill for the light: "The light that will be billed and paid that day, that will illuminate the polling stations, will be paid because you make the reference? Well, of course, I'm sure it is. Now, if you're asking me, "Is this reference going to have ballot boxes? So there will be ballot boxes, actually, like all references. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.85.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.86.0	Mr President, what you have shown with your answer is that, in addition to being irresponsible, he is a coward. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] That it's obviously not able to take over or so alone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.87.0	Quiet, and please! Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.88.0	...is not capable of assuming, nor alone...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.89.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.90.0	...the decisions they're theoretically announcing. And, Mr President, that an independenceist referendum, that a unilateral referendum is pathetic, yes, I say, the People's Group says. But most of all, do you know who said it? A gentleman sitting behind you, Mr Germà Bel, who in a few statements last year claimed that a unilateral referendum is pathetic. [[Greetings.]] That's the reality. But I will tell you: this referendum, which is not going to be held, is pathetic, but it also represents a perversion of democracy. Mr President, what we are living in the Parliament of Catalonia right now is a clear alibi for freedom..., and we live from our backs to reality. You have become, Mr President, together with Mr Junqueras, a political pyromaniac; you have become political pyromaniacs and you are leading Catalan society not towards independence, but towards a precipice from which we will see how we will come out. I ask you, Mr President of the Generalitat, to analyse the social reality of Catalonia. Every day they are less, they are more alone, but, yes, they are more radicalized. And proof of that we had with Mr. Guardiola last Sunday. Be very clear that from the People's Party and democratic institutions you will not be allowed a coup d'état, as you want to do. The rule of law, democratic institutions and those who believe in freedom will give you the right, proportional, but strong answer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.91.0	Thank you, Mr. García. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.92.0	Thank you very much. Mr Albiol, in his usual line, spoke of "irresponsible, cowardice. Miri, having behind the prosecution, the judicial system, the Ministry of Interior – face A and face B –, the media system, all a government of the State, behind, very brave, not lime; to resort to the cousin of Zumosol of the keyposts of the State may not be very brave, Mr Albiol. [[Greetings.]] The bravery, you know what it is, the bravery? Knowing that you have a lot of criticism, a person like Pep Guardiola comes to do an act of democratic dignity, which is to claim – to claim – that people can vote. If they're to be scandalized because someone claims the right to vote is that they have a serious problem. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, believe me, it must be very brave...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.93.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.94.0	... that it would be very good to stand before all this power – some of the things that come into this very Parliament of the committee that is following it think they should be concerned – that it would be very good for, despite all this, to remain faithful to the mandate of the people of Catalonia, believe me. And I don't do it as a vindication of courage or courage, just as a vocation of coherence. And if you want to get references, believe me, by taking Mr. Bel's reference, you'll go a long way. Do it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.95.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the adequacy of the reference provision of October 1 to the requirements of the Venice Commission]] [[317-00162/11]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet, and please! Quiet and please! Respect the word tower, please. [[Pause.]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation; formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.96.0	Thank you very much, President. President, therefore, let me be a little gram and combine the optimism of the will and the pessimism of the reason. I say it because, as you have remembered, you have been selling past you announced the date and question of the reference. And, in the course of the appearance, you made a remark, you still referred to the authority of the Venice Commission. And it did so – certainly, in our opinion – recalling the opinion, the position of this committee on the reform of the Constitutional Court, of the Law of the Constitutional Court, which has transformed it into a body that is punished and blatantly and clearly designed to counter Catalonia's democratic aspirations. But the Venice Commission says a lot more, and sets out a whole series of requirements to approve and recognize as valid, as a basis for a reference made in a country. How do you intend to adapt the device, which does not yet give us much detail, which you will announce in relation to the requirements and requirements of the Venice Commission?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.97.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.98.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Rabell, you know exactly what the Venice Commission said. And one of the first conclusions to which we are informed is that the references in which they can intervene are those that come from an agreement with the State from which one wants to separate, and that, therefore, in this scene, he would make a follow-up of recommendations and was willing to intervene. But, also, on the offer of coming to explain how we proposed or tried to make this reference, it is obvious that, if it is not counted on the State's authorization, or with the consent of the State in this case, the Venice Commission, therefore, no, clearly said that it did not enter it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.99.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.100.0	Yeah. If I have understood correctly, the reference that you will propose to us will not be able to adapt to the parameters of the Venice Commission. Well, here we are bringing the conclusion... and the first conclusion is, in fact, to the enrocement, the opposition of the Government of the Spanish State. That's obvious. But we're moving more quickly from here to the conclusion that it would be good to change political scenes to make it possible. And we're working on it. Yesterday we presented a motion of censure to the Government of Rajoy to the Congress of Deputies – which, it seems to me, will only count on the abstention of his political formation in the Congress of Deputies – in which..., and it was felt in this Congress of Deputies a speech and the manifestation that there is a new..., new democratic forces and forces of change in Spain that are laying a new horizon and that will make possible a new horizon. We think it would be good to work in this perspective. It seems that forbearance is not the most effective way to help and interfere in this sense. In any case, we have the impression that you are asking us for an act of faith on the characteristics of your reference. Makes you think a little bit about a song by Georges Brassens, which was "The disbelief, which I said, which I asked..., wanted to have faith, right? And he said, "My life at the bottom, a certain Blaise Pascal, gave me a friendly council and said, "Pray, beg, pretend to believe, and you will see that you have already believed." We thought you were more of the Beatles, but you see that it's also enough of Brassens, or Blaise Pascal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.101.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.102.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. I did not tell him that he will not be able to adapt to the parameters of the Venice Commission; at the moment – at the moment – the only one who said that he will not adapt to the parameters of the Venice Commission is the Spanish State. He's the only one. We, of course, when we talk about guarantees – and, indeed, the guarantees will be fully explained from here to a few weeks – see that they fit perfectly, all of them, to which are the standards of the vast majority of the self-determination references that have been made, especially in the most democratic countries. So, from this point of view, be quiet. Fully disposed, with your group, even though you maintain the position we all know, to approach with you as much as possible the knowledge of these guarantees. I don't have a problem. I am aware, indeed, that a motion of censure has been taking place in the Spanish State at this time, but it is taking us very far. I just want to clarify one thing: my political group is together for the Yes; I am president as..., with the support of Juntes for the Yes, which is the party with which I went to present myself, and together with the Yes does not have a parliamentary group in Madrid and does not have a position on..., beyond the mandatory and voluntary respect, to which you decide the Spanish policy in your yes, which you deserve all the respect; we look carefully at what is going on, but we also look carefully at the impotence with which for many years an alternative to the hegemony of the Popular Party-Citizens coalition is trying to articulate, with the support of the Socialist Party, and how we see that this has been implemented instead of expanding. Celebrity– for another band, I already know it– his reference to the world of the song, to Brassens. Here we could coincide very much with singers, with singers from Europe. But do you know what's going on? That I don't like the use of mythical songs so that I can bring water to your moray, because here we could take it wrong, if we grab references from French songs – or Catalans – on the position of each of them. But in any case, I'm sure we'd match more than one interpreter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.103.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the motion for a resolution which does not concern Parliament's Register the legal text in which the referendum of October 1st is to be called.]] [[317-00159/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generality on the political situation formulated by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.104.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, today is a monogram. I know that our group is not resigned to the fact that the great announcements and the great debates are going to be produced in its parliament and not outside it. You diverged and announced that you would do certain things, and we wanted to ask you..., and you said, too, outside the chamber, that soon the details of the law for which this political initiative will govern will be known. And my question is very simple: why is it that you do not immediately produce an entry per register of the legal text in which you intend to use the call of the referendum that you announced?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.105.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.106.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, an acclaim: this belongs to parliamentary groups, it does not belong to the Government. But, in any case, I let him say that I am celebrating that he is not resigned – I am celebrating that he is not resigned – but I am not resigned, and perhaps – perhaps – the conviction. Do you agree that if we present any initiative that is in the line of explaining everything that we are preparing to make this reference, you will not bring it to the Constitutional Court? You're sure this won't work because the D.A. can stop the few... and they'll be doing the D.A.'s job because we can't finally complete the ballot box? If you calm me down, I could also calm him down in this sense.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.107.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.108.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President, now you've entrusted me with everything. But have we not said so many times that the Constitutional Court does not count? That we haven't said so many times that what the courts say is the same to us? Now he's trusted me with everything. Or so, I'm told: don't bring this law, you, the groups or who it is – because whoever said in public that you already have the details is you – simply because you do it for what it can be the reaction of the courts or the Constitutional Court, that you yourselves have told us that they won't listen? [[Greetings.]] Jo, the truth is, I don't understand them. And it's hard for me to use one and the other time the poor Venice Commission, the European Commission for Democracy from the Right, which says that you can only summon references when you agree with the Constitution or agree with a law that you agree with the Constitution. And that's the problem. Mr President, you only have one problem: that you have undertaken to do something that you cannot guarantee and are not in a position to do. And that's the question. And a lot of talking about a democratic mandate, but, listen to me, the democratic mandate, if I'm not wrong, give the ballot boxes. And I read with great attention the election program of Junts for the Yes and the Popular Unity Candidacy: I did not know how to find the reference that you now say is essential! [[Greetings.]] Where's the democratic warrant? And now they say to us: "No, it will assemble as much as possible in a few elections. Well, all right. Will it assemble as much as possible on November 9, 2014? Do we repeat a consultation process that will then not have the political and legal effectiveness that is actually said to be pursued? Mr. President, we don't see your path viable. We respect his position, we respect the institutions, but we ask him, once more, and we will not tire of doing so: do not pass the Catalan institutions out of legality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.110.0	Yeah. Mr. Iceta, you should not ignore what's going on – because you are a familiar man, I consider you to be a sensitive person to whom are the fundamental rights of a democracy – you should not ignore what's going on in this country, not to approve a decree, but to go to a public act, as you passed to Constellera Borràs, which to go to a public act already forms part of a report from the prosecution that when a law reads you see Nodo, and all the while it turns into black and white, and you start to see SEAT 127 for the road, because it transports us to another time. You wouldn't have to ignore that. Because, indeed, it is very easy to say: "No, you should dispense with the Constitutional Court. Oh! It is that we will surely do it; but will you do it? Not you. Therefore – therefore – you are giving me the reason that it is not the purpose of your group to debate in its parliament all that you claim to be debated in its parliament. And, therefore, do not tell me that we do not do it because we have for the Constitutional Court, because those who have for themselves you. [[Widow's remorse.]] You are the ones who would use the argument and the argument of the Constitutional Court after saying: "This government cannot speak here to Parliament about what we have asked it to speak about. Let's keep it straight, and let's keep all the folds honest, and don't cheat on us. So the information, all – all –, starting with all the legal, legal, technical guarantees that will take over the referendum. And secondly, look well – look well – at the electoral programs, because you will see a referendum, and you will see a declaration of independence, and you will see a referendum constitute, for a constituent republic. Therefore, if you agree with all the literality of our electoral programs, as I hope you will, you will have no problem because we apply what was the main mandate of this compromise with the citizens. It's an irrefutable compromise. And let's do one thing: let's let the citizens who value whether or not a _has completed their electoral commitment? Do we agree with that? So, look, when we refer to the opportunity to know, we will have the opportunity to know whether the citizens accept this instrument or not to validate the culmination of this legislature.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.111.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the recovery of extraordinary payments from civil servants]] [[317-00158/11]] Fourteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated for Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.112.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, on what date are Catalan officials going to recover the extra pay for 2012 as a whole, the pay for 2013 and 2014? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.113.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.114.0	Indeed, Mrs. Arrimadas, a specific question for Mrs. Borràs, who will be able to say the same as I will say to her: she is in negotiations with the Bureau and, therefore, when she comes to an agreement, she will be able to schedule exactly the return of what is an irrevocable compromise of this Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.115.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.116.0	When we get you out of independence, you have no idea, Mr Puigdemont. [[Rialles.]] No idea – no idea – of nothing – of nothing. [[Greetings.]] He does not answer a very easy question, you who like to set dates so much: when are the officials going to collect what you have taken from them? I'll remind you of a few things. Not only are you not answering me, Mr Puigdemont: you are not answering hundreds of thousands of families who have the right to organize their expenses, their income, to see if they can buy a car, if they can pay the children's tuition... Why not answer the citizens? Why do you so much like to talk about dates, "neverendum, " and not when you are going to pay officials? Look, I'm gonna tell you a few things. Catalan officials are the ones who have had the most cuts from all over Spain thanks to their government. With you, moreover, in the government, the precariousness of this collective has increased, as you increased the high offices. In addition, you are not giving officials the information or documentation they are repeatedly demanding. And, in case everything was short, you applaud those who are dedicated to threatening officials who do not want to follow them in their illegalities. Look, you have a problem, and it's that in order to perpetrate your hypothetical plan you would need the officials, but the officials have to do it is to collect in time, the officials have to have legal certainty. And we already know that you are in a Titanic that is sinking, but don't try to use the lifeguards, who we already know, that you are very brave here and on TV and on rallies, and then, in front of the 9-N judge, you blamed the volunteers. They don't want to do the same thing again with the officials. I ask you, Mr Puigdemont: why do you find money for duplicate state structures and not find money to return to the officials what is yours? Not only do you pay them, but rights that you have been cutting them off, as no other autonomous government has done in Spain. Why do you set dates for that 'never-endum'which you had denied, denied, laughed at him, did not put him in your election program, promised independence in eighteen months because it was supposedly already held, and now sets dates for the 'never-endum, and not for what you have an obligation to do, which is to date the payback? I ask you, Mr Puigdemont: when are you going to return the payments that have been taken from the Catalan officials? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.117.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. The president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.118.0	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, there is a falsehood in your statement: already we are returning the rights – already we are returning the rights. And I beg you to do it again, when you make a statement of this strength, be a little more rigorous. I know that you don't speak for Parliament, or speak for your voters; you speak for TV, and that's probably a good thing, saying that the government isn't returning its rights, when it's doing it. And he's doing it with a lot of effort, and you let him do it: without any help, neither does his. Will you be willing to vote for the Congress...? Or say 'My times that at the Congress you have voted what you have voted for the Basque Country, better for the Basque Country, for Catalonia. How many papers have they presented in favour of Catalonia's economic sustainability? [[Greetings.]] Not one of them. The only two who presented them ended up withdrawing, because even all the shame to yourselves, of the small amount they demanded for Catalonia. Look, listen to me, here's one thing you should recognize: in this country you're making efforts and you're doing them all, starting with the workers and ending with the government; everyone. No one – no one – has more interest than the government of this country in having the tools to return all the rights that have gone forward in this country in the past few years. And do you know whose sovereignty the retail was? Do you know whose it was? From the Spanish State. And, therefore, I am convinced that you, when we plant that we have the tools of sovereignty so that you can recreate me – then, yes, quite rightly, if I do not agree with it – that you have the tools to return all the rights spelled out for Spanish sovereignty we have not done so, then you will be right. But ask him to help us keep these tools, because now we don't have them. And finally another thing that has to do with ‘parliamentary ethics' – let me just say this. You, when you ask the President of the Government, ask a generic question – you are allowed, you have always done so – "political situation; very well. To the government, to the councillors, they ask very concrete things, because they can give them a concrete answer, because it is assumed that the control to the government that you seek is quality information from the government for something that also interests the voters that you represent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now... – listen'm, I'll give you a moment, please – but try, of all the breadth..., of thousands of fears that a door, know, that day, look, « I'll ask you exactly the realization of a given without saying it, save it behind the anonymous question, because then the president will remain like a person who has no social sensitivities, so look, that's making a lot of trap. And I think here in Parliament, cheating, there's only a few, Mrs. Arrimadas. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.119.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the situation of public workers in relation to the organization and celebration of the October 1 referendum]] [[317-00163/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the latest political events, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.120.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, it has already been said, but this is not why we would stop doing so, the fact that we value very positively that the date and the question have already been announced for the reference, and we value positively both the date and the question. Now the decision of the future politics of this country is in the hands of the citizens of Catalonia, which is the deepest of a democracy. As we are already used to, the reaction by the State of an important and transcendent announcement for Catalonia, therefore, is always the same: it goes to alter the menu and the threat. An initial lie that, in fact, we have not been used to so far – and we have seen it with the Vice President of the Government – is already done with a high level of grollery and regularity, isn't it? To talk about "teaching", to talk about that if the president says stupid, to talk about that "this independence is a roll, etcetera, which only makes obvious, therefore, his state of despair. Actually, it's normal for me to start being desperate, isn't it? But from here they're laughing, he's mofen, but he's fighting "in the song; don't trigate or twenty-four hours in the fight or involvement of the fight. And, of course, we also want to make a point: that the fact that one of the reasons for the complaint to Councilwoman Borràs is to attend the party, the act that was done diminution, we believe that it goes absolutely beyond all limits; I don't know whether this thing in Italy is also done or in Germany is done, and all that we see in the Catalan operation these days that they are explaining to us here, whether they do it in Italy or they do it in Germany or they do it in these places, right? Besides, today we're reading that the D.A.'s office doesn't have to admit this complaint. They know perfectly well that with a call to La Moncloa there is enough. But they see that this has no effect on political representatives. And what have they done? So, the threat mode has expanded it in a bold way until cases, I think, delirious. And they are focusing on many collectors, to threaten them; some of them, therefore, very directly through reports from La Moncloa, through the delegate of the Government, etc., a very direct threat to the public workers and to the functioning, when this Government has always said, in all the statements made by the public, that the officials can be perfectly calm, both at the organization, the convocation, as the celebration of the referendum. But before all this threat to the public workers, we, the president, consider it very appropriate to ask him in his parliamentary office what is his government's understanding of the public workers for which he does the organization and celebration of the October 1 referendum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.121.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.122.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Turull, indeed, you mentioned the situation of Italy, Germany... What I am convinced is that neither Italy nor Germany has any mausoleum dedicated either to Mussolini or to Hitler paid with public money; that is for sure not there. Nor is there any money to pay police costs like the Mora Guard, which, by the way, the Spanish State in 2017 finds more than 7_million euros to continue paying a French-era item like the Mora Guard. Effectively, employees can be absolutely reassured by what they do to the organization of the reference as well as by what they do to the offer of public employment. And I hope that everyone who defends the functionaries of this country and the need for us to have the right professionals, if we have problems with the public offer of employment, has the same courage that they have now to defend the functionaries. I hope that's the way it is, and I'll just leave them with the benefit, say, from note to note, because we'll definitely talk about it again, about it. Miri, at the end of the month we will present, as I said before, all the technical and legal details that confirm that the reference is going to do with all the guarantees. Indeed, there has been an artificial controversy, inflated, interested, playing with the confusion of the people, over the workings. It is a notorious demonstration of the disenfranchisement of what happened in the late 30s, 40s in the Spanish State and what the Spanish general electoral legislation provides for, because instead – instead – you say that the officials must participate in the organization of electoral processes. In other words, officials are not required to participate in electoral processes because they are able to hold an electoral process. They can participate... [[Funnel veils]] I'm referring to the Spanish general election. I suppose there's something you need to hold and someone respects you, I suppose. It speaks of representatives of the Administration. And in the last thirty years these representatives of the Administration have been workers, volunteers, sometimes it has coincided that they were working, but that they were not appointed representatives for their condition of working, but in many cases they were also volunteering. Therefore, no one – no one – will be forced to do anything. And the government guarantees absolute guarantees. It is true that we have opened..., as has always been the case, as some assemblies have done – others have preferred to manage it in another way–, we have opened a bag because the workers who want it, you will or will not, can point out because the government believes them as electoral agents, that in the referendum, as in all previous electoral calls, it is the ones who will have to give the guarantee of the electoral process.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.123.0	Thank you, President. [[Draft Law on Digital Wills and Changes to the Second and Fourth Books of the Civil Code of Catalonia]] [[200-00024/11]] After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. The second item on the agenda is: debate and vote on the opinion of the Commission of Justice on the draft law on the digital and modification of the second and fourth books of the Civil Code of Catalonia. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, and in accordance with the Government's request, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of Mr Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justice. [[Pause.]] Please, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.124.0	Shall I start?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.125.0	No, I hope; counselor, I hope 'a moment. [[Pause.]] Counselor, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.126.0	Thank you very much, President. Very good morning to all of you. Well, we come to the end of a legislative process that had as its object, at its beginning, the approval of the Law of Digital Wills; a law that responds to objectives that I think are well-lived and well-visible in our society. We are in a reality where, obviously, the new technologies, social networks, communication tools take on a growing importance, and not to say the impact that they have on younger generations. And it's obvious that this paradigm shift also creates problems for us who claim to solve new ones. We have said this many times: when we die physically, we do not die digitally, and therefore we need to find solutions to this new reality in case of death situations, in case of disability situations. And also, and it is very important to put it in value, it is important to give greater protection to the underage children who use – and sometimes misuse – social networks. Making the law... making this law wasn't easy. Obviously, it forced us to generate new concepts, according to a reality that had not been legislated before in those terms. It is also obvious that we have to do it in a competitive framework that has limitations, not only within the state, but also has limitations to deal, of course, with a phenomenon of global nature. And when we say that we have to present new concepts, obviously here comes the concept of digital heritage, digital heritage, digital will, to give continuity and to give solution to a reality that survives us. The virtues, we might say, of the law, therefore, are to give answer to these new needs that society has. The massive presence and mass use of social networks generate questions, which I believe the Parliament will do well to try to give it an answer, as well as the complexity of being able to do so. Opening the debate is, of course, another element that gives meaning and value to this law, opening the debate to a question that is present. I believe that the Parliament of Catalonia proves to be at the side of those things that really worry people in the day-to-day, also in this question. The right to honour, the right to privacy are many debates that converge on this regulation that we propose. But it's obvious, and I said before – and I don't hide it or take it from it, because that's why it's so – we have jurisdictional limitations, because here there are issues related to data protection, the protection of the right to honour and privacy, issues related to telecommunications legislation. It is, of course, a global debate, which often affects companies that have a planetary dimension, and it is clear that if we propose to answer this question, that we think it deserves it, we must do it with the tools we have. For this reason, in our home, the tools that offer us the civil right, which we have developed for many years, gives us the opportunity to take over those who survive us, those who represent us as guardians, if so, to facilitate the management of this digital heritage, which, as we say, survives us once more we are no longer there. And, of course, this is also being asked by the digital service providers, who must take good note at the time of seeking solutions that also in a practical and autonomous way can help resolve this issue. It is a pioneering initiative; a pioneer in the Spanish State, and practically we could say a pioneer in the European context. And that's why we want to highlight this willingness to give tools so that we can manage better these situations; we want to generate a debate about the need to predict and regulate these situations, and we are sure that it will be a welcome initiative. Is it going to solve all the problems? No, I don't think so. It is clear that the future will overcome this legislative initiative. But it is not with a vocation of permanence, it is with a vocation to put on the table a question that is necessary to regulate. And what wouldn't be acceptable is that, thinking we could do a little, we didn't do anything. The regulation, I said, affects those situations of death and incapacity to take over those people who in the future manage in our name our digital heritage, our digital arrival. But – and here I want to put a lot in value – it also gives tools to parents and mothers, and guardians, to protect the youngest children who, in the field of the internet, can often use it inappropriately, endangering their physical or mental integrity. In this case, we are prepared – and thanks to the points that have also been made and approved in committee – to be able to combine the rights of parents and mothers to give protection to their children with the legitimate and necessary autonomy of the child. I honestly believe that, as a result of everyone's contributions, we have found the right balance. This law also regulates the Register of Digital Wills; an administered register, a public and free registry, which will certainly be useful in situations of absence of assets. We do not have to make it difficult to solve those people who may have their digital assets in the future, who do not have physical benefits; in change, we do have to give tools to ensure solutions for when, in case of death or disability, someone, in their name, can help them overcome, solve this issue. I will end up agraint, first of all, the good welcome that the initiative has taken. I think it's unanimous recognition at the time of hearing that this was a matter worth discussing, worth discussing. The debate has certainly been stimulating, because it has generated debate in the legal sphere, but it has also generated debate in the social sphere, and we have succeeded in bringing this debate to an end in many areas, in the academic sphere, in the social sphere, and therefore we believe that this also justifies the presentation of the initiative. And I want to sincerely thank the interest shown by all of the groups at the time of making statements, at the time of wanting to improve this bill. And that is why I hope the support, if it can be unanimous, because I am sure that the company will know that Parliament will have done, with the tools at its disposal, a good job, wanting to give an answer, wanting to give a solution to a question that is well present. With the Law of Digital Volunteers, Catalonia is a pioneer. Catalonia is a pioneer in regulating the digital arrival of the deceased to the network and giving new tools to protect minors who make a bad use of these networks. We are aware of the difficulties, but it would not be acceptable to believe that, because we can do little, we did nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.127.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Mundó. Then there's the words of Mr. Jordi Orobig, who in the wake of the rapporteur.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.128.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Councillor Mundó, Members, Members..., well, as the Councillor has expressed in this case, we find ourselves at the stage, in the later phase of the approval of this legislative initiative, which is articulated as the draft law on the proposal of the Government, and which I would like to remind you, even as the Councillor has expressed it today – it has deserved a growing participation that is enthusiastic on the part of all parliamentary groups – and not only of the parliamentary groups, but also as far as its processing is concerned, respects the social responsibility of this initiative – at first, it was certainly seen with a certain scepticism or, in any case, it was understood that it was more a frivolity or a willingness of contentment on the part of the department than anything that obeys a certain society. I believe that we have all had the ability to admit that this initial position does not correspond with reality, with the bounds of this bill, and that this tool gave us many facilities and uses to be able to act in a legal environment every time wider. That's to say, I think... – even though we certainly pushed the process with an emergency character, because that's how he agreed at his time – I think we've added that there's a lot of recourse in this camp. It's a good initiative from the government, and we've always shown it to have, too, put the pilot at stake. And it is gratifying, I insist – and in this case I say it as rapporteur – on the tarann of all the speakers. And in this case I want to thank, expressly, the deputies Salellas and Coscubiela, the deputies Esperanza García, Rosa Maria Ibarra and Lorraine Roldán their taranna, their way of doing and their willingness to reach agreements, which have allowed us to make a very important part of the text. So much so that in the parliamentary process there have been important developments, and not because the text that came to us is missing, but because of the specific fact that, as I have said, we have agreed that we have the opportunity to influence a very important area, not only for what is initially the title or referent of this legislative initiative – that is, in this case, the Register of Digital Wills – but also, specifically, for what is the field of minors and guardians and all that is the subject of the management of digital heritage, both of these specific collections as in general, but specifically for what is the control of these, in particular circumstances that may arise for the sake of each and every other institution that is not always the same as in general, but specifically for what is the control of this, in particular circumstances that may arise in the field of minors and guardianships, and for what is the management of the digital heritage, both of these collections as in general, but rather than in general terms, of the control of this, but in particular circumstances, of the logic of the theory, which is often used, but often, but not so often so much so. From here, measures that could initially seem, well, very hard, as could be the request for cancellation of accounts, I think we have had the ability to arbitrate systems that, first of all, protect the weakest, as can be minors and guardians; secondly, they give a tool to the pair and guardians in order to act in an immediate way, and, in this case, require a suspension of these digital accounts, and we also guarantee legal certainty, as it is not done in an arbitrary or capricious way, but, logically, in this case, we have arbitrated a system, which is the incorporation of a report that is able to credit this circumstance in this case of risk to the physical or emotional integrity of the minor or protection. We understand that this is a very important tool, which serves to arbitrate a measure that cannot qualify as a precautionary measure, but that in any case is subject to a temporary restriction, as it requires the exercise of judicial actions, because, under the emperor of a judicial resolution, they become definitive or, in any case, this measure arises. And we understand that with this tool we give satisfaction to everyone, I insist, to the interests of the most unprotected, to the parents and guardians, as they count on a tool, and to the same providers of digital services, as long as they do not remain subject to an act of whims of those who have to age for the welfare of their children or wards, but in any case remain under judicial control that validates the goodness of this measure. If we are to appreciate the task that all the parliamentary groups have made, I would like to make an express mention in this case of the late Mrs. Imma Folchi, who has helped us throughout this process. For the fever of the department there are various, not to say many, legislative initiatives that we have processed in this legislature coming from the Department of Justice. We have always relied on the help of the late Imma Folchi and, obviously, I cannot say more than words of praise respect her work, because it makes it very easy for us to do it in a very efficient and very agile way, in the same way as the parliamentary forwarder who has been assigned to us in this procedure. For the rest, I don't know if I am. I have the privilege of a later intervention, which will probably serve to answer some of the interventions that can be made by the companies that have been put into this pose. But, in short, we understand that it is a tool that has emerged as interesting, as it is very powerful, and that we have been able, during the processing of the petition, not only for our own interaction at the time of discussion of the papers, but also for the substantive contributions that have existed in the section of correspondence, both in relation to the field of the teaching, the teaching in law, in practice, coming from the university world, as well as the professional aspects that have come to us..., and I want to explain this because it was an expression that I believe that, as a legislator, I am pleased to know that you are responding to a social demand, that they feel proud of the fact that the public institutions in our country are persuasive, that the institutions in question may be involved in a new need, and that they may be involved in a new need. Beyond that, also thank the sensibility of the department. In this case, explicitly for the presence of the Director General of Dret, Mr Xavier Bernadí, therefore, who has had the capacity and flexibility, as a bill of law and, therefore, an initiative promoted by the Government, in order to be able to mottle the texts of the transactions to what has become the will of the question. And ultimately, recognize the same flexibility and sensitivity of the department for the fact of incorporating in this case the defined text, the one we are approving today, the first recommendations of the Greuges Syndicate, as can be the change in the regulation for which it does to the right or the faculty of correction to minors and guardianships by parents and parents. Therefore, as the rapporteur, in this case, of this draft law, therefore, insist on my satisfaction, in the fact that this work alone justifies and takes the leap of pride and honour in being a member of this legislative chamber. And, for the rest, just wait for the interventions of the rest of the pontiffs to vaginate in this line, as I understand that this has been the tarann of ponència. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.129.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. In the first place, the groups that have reserved papers for the plenary will continue to intervene, and the first to intervene will be the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I've got the word Mrs. Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.130.0	Yes, thank you, President. Well, good morning to everyone, deputies, deputies. Good morning, Counselor. March 22nd held the debate on the totality of the bill on digital volunteers. That day, from our group – in fact, I was myself – we already expressed our doubts in respect of this project. Notwithstanding this, we wanted to give the opportunity to be the thinker and to work in depth on this issue, as we understood that it was a reality that we needed to talk about. The problem is that only four_months later– well, there are not three_months above, plus more holidays for the middle– we'll be back here, now to vote for the definite text of the law. And the government has been correcting this project. In fact, this project has been processed through the emergency procedure, as has been said, and all this has been done in a timely manner. I would also like to see this Celestiality in the rest of the laws being dealt with in this Parliament, or perhaps "Celebrity is not the word, because we will already see what problems this Celestiality has entailed, but interest. I would like to see the same interest, predisposition and dedication with other laws. And if not, they asked, for example, the promoters of guaranteed citizenship income, who even had to make a wave of fame to denounce the blockade and the delay caused, according to them, for the Group of Joints for the Yes. So, as we see that when they want, they can, we ask them from here the same dedication, especially in matters that do require urgency, such as this one that I have set them as an example and that is not the case with digital wills. I wonder if there was this urgency that we have to go to some states of the United States to find a similar regulation or, for example, it is true that France, at the end of last year, approved a regulation, but it has nothing to do with what we are doing here, because there you see from the perspective of the protection of personal rights. And someone could say to me, "Listen, and to the rest of the countries? So, well, the rest of the countries don't have any regulation in this sense. This was the great urgency that we had here in Catalonia with this subject. I have my own personal theory, and it is that this urgency only responds to a personal interest of the counselor so that I can say that we are pioneers in Catalonia – in fact, he said. That you don't misunderstand me, it's good to be a pioneer, but it's good to be a pioneer doing it well, with a final result that is of quality. Because this text presents many doubts. We don't just give it to ourselves, but also to the professionals of the right and the new technologies, or also the digital service providers. It would have been good, for example, if you could have come to see me. But, of course, we were in a hurry, so they couldn't come. Actually, it's that together for the Yes dropped the requests for appearance, which seems like that's what they took the taste for, huh? Whenever there's something they don't like, they block the appearances, it's plugging the shames, like they did when the Vidal case commission was fulminated, it's no way that it's proven that between lying and lying to Mr. Vidal he missed some truth. In the end, those who came to compare to explain their view of the text were the members of the Codifying Committee, which, of course, we do not doubt their professionalism, but it is these people who wrote the initial draft, right? It's like asking a father to break his son. We have presented four items that have not been considered, and the answer to be given is that there could be a potential competition conflict in these items. And, of course, he's fine. It is well above all coming from Juntes for the Yes, therefore, that it has proved that you have no inconvenience neither in jumping the Constitution nor in jumping the Statue one day and the other. We are therefore pleased – we are pleased – that in this case they have been so pending and, even later, this interest in the Constitution, we congratulate them and invite them to do so with the rest of the laws. Obviously, we have had a great deal of presence in our discussions on these competitive limits, and we are aware that everything about the protection of personal data is the competence of the State, and no longer just the competence of the State, but it is also a matter that is harmonised at Community level. In no case did we go into this matter, but what we wanted was to give it another focus on writing, setting the conditions and, above all, the precautions to take into account at the time of limiting, in some way, the exercise of these rights that derive precisely from the rules of data protection. Well, in any case these items were not taken into consideration and the text we are voting on now, so it addresses the issue of the digital footprint from another perspective. One of the most doubtful questions is the amendment of Articles 222-36 and 236-17. In fact, we have asked for a separate vote at these points, because these articles provide that when guardians or parents of the minor detect that there may be some immediate and difficult risk to the physical or psychological salvation of these minors, of these guardianships, they will be able to request from digital service providers the provisional suspension of the accounts of these guardianships or children. Well, what's the problem? So, there's more than one. One, which does not only affect these articles, but also generally affects the entire articulation, is the difficulty that digital service providers have in proving the civil status of this affected user and, therefore, whether or not to apply the Catalan Civil Code. Another problem, we said, is that the parents or guardians will be able to suspend the accounts in the long run, but how can digital providers know that the account, for example, belongs to that child or to that guardianship in question? I believe that all of us who are here some time or another have created some e-mail account, for example. What data have we been asked to do with this account? Not one of them. It is enough to indicate a name, which you can even invent and, therefore, the provider, therefore, often ignores the ownership of the account. Neither can they know, for example, whether this account is used only for one person or for various people. For example, imagine a Facebook account that is managed for a community where various people work together. And not only that, but also that the service provider cannot prove the relationship of affiliation, guardianship or representation either. He cannot know, for example, whether a father has lost his country or whether a minor has emancipated or whether there is a conflict of interests between the parties. And by the end of the day, it turns out that digital service operators cannot offer this suspension for a purely operational, technological issue. That is to say, the accounts are either open – they are active – or they are cancelled, but at this half-suspension term, neither contemplate it nor the standard of exactly what it consists of. Cal, besides, also think that if you cancel an account, it can have other associated accounts that hang from it. So, if that's the case, we're not just canceling an account, but we're canceling all those accounts from the original account, let's just say, right? Therefore, this can have many consequences. And, above all, it should be noted that, once you cancel this account, the account can no longer be recovered; neither the account nor its contents nor anything else that was there. Therefore, I believe that we can already predict a whole set of problems that will arise in practice with the application of these articles. If the purpose of these articles was to protect minors from risks arising from social networks or digital accounts, it counts, because perhaps what is achieved is to violate the rights of minors and, at the very least, to cause them harm that is difficult to repair. If it is true that the result of the negotiations of the question was added in these articles a safeguard menu that says that suspension will remain without effects within three months, led to it being ratified by the judicial authority, well, to say 'impassimist, but which judge in three months can solve these questions? Especially with the workload and lack of resources, both material and human, current. It's been months since we've been alerting the courts of col·lapse and the unsustainable situation that the Administration of Justice has suffered. Now we pretend that in three months these questions will be resolved. Moreover, in the case of minors and wards, this safeguard has been added, but in the cases of disability that we have left us, this judicial ratification does not come from place, eh? Surely, before, therefore, this celerity and this urgency at the time of working the text. And these aren't the only articles that make us doubt. Also, for example, in dead cases, we find questions that should have worked with more detail. For example, myi, two weeks ago we knew of a sense of German justice that denied a couple access to a social network of his youngest daughter, who had died hit by a train. The parents wanted to access this account, so they wanted to know if this death had been an accident or if the bride wanted to kill herself. These couples are, in all their effects, the heretics of their daughter and, therefore, the heretics of their digital footprint. But, of course, it must be borne in mind that when we interact in these social networks we do not do it individually and that what we do is share content with third parties and those third parties with us. And so, if you give access to these accounts, as much as those people follow the heresies, you can violate the rights of these third parties, just as you manifest this very feeling that I am giving them. We believe that all these questions are not sufficiently resolved in this text. We also believe that it would have been good to have worked on these problems with more depth and, above all, with more time. Because more than being pioneers, what we need to do is to make good laws, useful laws, laws that are effective, laws that bring solutions and legal certainty. For us, this text that is presented today as defined is a first step; necessary, yes, but insufficient. And we are very afraid that it will be necessary to return to work on this issue in the future, but to work in truth, to work without press, not to bend medals or to go on the occasion of announcements, which unfortunately, therefore, we have already been accustomed to this government and the group that is gathering it. As we have already said, they pay us to make good laws and to solve problems and not to create more. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.131.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.132.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, we finish today the processing of a bill that has presented itself with great expectations for what it does to its objectives and for its innovative character at world level; so good it is. You already know what the position of the Catalonian Group is. Yes, it can be before this law. It has been a positive, collaborative, purposeful attitude, as always, that we have tried to combine with sufficient and opportune doses of skepticism, because the positive character and faith, if they are not accompanied by this skepticism, can certainly end up being absolutely frustrating triumphs, huh? We don't think it's necessary to generate exaggerated expectations about the potential of this law. And that does not get him any credit for the government's initiative, for having raised it, and, at the same time, for the Parliament's ability to finish this debate with a bill that will acquire the law condition, that will regulate a new reality, clearly, not just in our country, but in the global arena. They're reasonable doubts, I think, because they've been raised for the same fellows. Reasonable doubts that we believe, and so we said, that it would take a little more time, a little more time, a little more time, a little more time, because... more appearances, that they were not only convinced, and also more time to analyze and reflect. A reality that has a problem of foundations, and is that we want to regulate with instruments of analog societies digital realities, we want to regulate with instruments of national state – in the words of the councillor and everyone who thinks that anything that forms part of the concept's structure of state. I've been told that the Blood and Tissue Bank is a structure of the state, and I look at it..., that it's more important than that, that it's one of the things we feel very proud of, but better not to separate it..., better to separate things, right? It wasn't good, honestly. I will not be the one who prejudged what was the reason of the council to print this rhythm and impose on the Group of Together for Yes this rhythm, but I think it was not positive, because it is true that some of the actors who wanted to set things up with us have come late to set them up - but I could have listened to them in real time and in parliamentaryly prudent time would have been taken from this point of view. These observations, which are, I insist, only from his scepticism before expectations which we believe are exaggerated, we want to refocus on a question: we share the premise on which this law is built, and it is the need to regulate a new, complex reality, that of the digital scourge, for which our legislation, ours, and in general the laws are not prepared, because it is about new realities for which, most likely, the purely scope of the norm is not enough, from this point of view. And you need to try to give her the answer. That's what we share, Counselor, we have said again and again. But I think we're all aware around... that the answer that this law gives is a partial answer. For example, at these times we already know, because more or less have warned us, that we will not have a very collaborative attitude of some of the digital service providers. Because, by engaging in technological reasons or difficulties – which in their case are enough excuses – they are already raising problems in the compliment of some of the things that are raised to the law, as Mrs Lorena explained to us a moment ago. Clearly, this is one of the things for which perhaps if we had had more time we could have matured the answer more. Why, what do we care? , do something quick that you don't count on the cooperation of those who will implement it or do something slower, in which we would have tried to get the cooperation of the service providers, which are key elements for the utility of the law? I think that clearly the answer – the counselor knows – is to have gone on a little more pause, because sometimes things are better, from this point of view. The truth is that the central element of the law, which is what it does with those people who have not opted for the ultimate intentions and, in change, therefore, do not have to define what to do with their digital footprint, to engage it all, all expectations, in an electronic register of digital intentions, I think it is a little exaggerated, from this point of view. And we've already set it up in your moment, I don't want to focus on this question, it seems to me an overly illusory answer, from this point of view, especially considering that it's generally about people who haven't seen the need to make a will or because they have nothing to test, huh? Most likely, at all, not even the digital patch, from this point of view, even though this is always very related. But, of course, in a society where 80_percent of people..., who at the time of their death have made a will, have pedagogically led a change of behaviour, as the counselor told us that it was one of the objectives of this law, so it could have been with instruments less extensive than that of this law, but it goes. Second question. This law has opted for a practice that does not satisfy us, neither when it is done by the Parliament of Catalonia, nor when it is done by the Congress of Deputies, nor when it is done by the legislature, which is to extend its initial abst by incorporating regulations and objectives of the law that do not have exactly to see with the initial object of the law, which in this case were the digital wills of people who have not made a will. This does not mean that we are against, or much less against, regulating a reality that today is punishing, that is the reality in which parents are found to be determined before major conflicts with regard to the risks their children take in the use of social networks. And indirectly, from here, the identical or similar situation of guardians in relation to protected persons. It's a real problem, huh? I don't deny it, and it's true. Anyone who has experienced it knows that it is a real problem for which there are no instruments, and therefore it is necessary to intervene. But again I say to him that, agreeing with the need to regulate this issue, I do not honestly believe that it is a good legislative practice to extend the abst of a law as much as to disfigure its initial objective. For a problem, basically, of legal certainty, because people need to know, the citizens need to know exactly what is the area in which the questions that are subject to this law are regulated. I insist, for reasons of legal certainty, not with regard to the content of the law. In this case, in relation to the capacity of peers and guardians in relation to the use of networks by minors, who are more in some cases minor adults, understood as the ability to decide some of the things of their life. Well, these are our reasonable doubts, but once the debate phase is over, our group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has passed the screen – in this case it would be opportune to say it – and we have put ourselves to work. What's the point? To improve as much as possible what comes out of this Parliament. This is why we have presented thirteen papers... I take this opportunity to say: thirteen of the thirty-four papers submitted have been presented for the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot; this is not a question of fish stocks, but I think it is a manifestation that we have really pressed ourselves, that our critical position in the debate of totality has, as always in our case, accompanied by alternative proposals, which is what gives us authority to criticize in its moment. There have been reviews that have tried to improve the initial text on issues that are meaningful to us. For example, regulation of digital wills in cases of overcapacity loss. For example, the limitations on the ability of guardians to cancel the accounts of guardians or minor children, which now even the same group that supports the Government has had to recognize that the cancellation made only by parents or guardians without any type of external control, and ultimately, was a deeply unbalanced regulation, among other things, because we are talking, for example, about minors who are adults, and therefore also have rights, from this perspective. We also wanted to regulate the realization of what it means that digital accounts have a heritage content, a very indeterminate concept in the text of the bill. It's obvious that the law can't close everything, but every time there's an indeterminate concept in a law, there's a problem of legal insecurity and, many times, a conflict in front of the courts, and what we're supposed to do is empty the courts and not fill them with a few strict laws in their content. We have also put forward proposals to reinforce the pre-eminence of willingness to volunteer on digital volunteer documents, which, in our view, is not sufficiently guaranteed in the original text. Finally, of the significant issues, we have presented papers to articulate major guarantees of legal certainty on situations in which digital intentions affect significant property contents. Well, these and other improvements in technical and political nature – I wouldn't know how to distinguish myself, in this case, as in others, where the rule of separation is –, they have allowed us to do a job, in our opinion, interesting in the field of ponència and commission. And, as a result of that, we've had the opportunity to make some... most of our reviews. I mean, why doesn't anyone take a trick, that in this case trading items, when it comes to Mr. Orobtig, it's quite a peculiar thing, huh? Because I need to recognize that he has the ability to change a coma and tell you he traded it to you. I won't complain about it. It's his job. He, of course, is intelligent, I mean, he knows that what matters here is to make you see that you negotiate even though you don't negotiate. Someone – someone – outside of this chamber should ask for advice from Mr. Orobtig for better concealment, and I'm not referring to Mr. Rajoy, but perhaps also. Clearly, frankly, I'd rather not make important negotiations with Mr. Orobtig. [[remorse of the voice]] But then, when you see him saying it, he was more modest, his ability to deal. But, well, with the result... – a very possible, optimistic one – so we've worked on some important ones. I think we haven't traded – or something like that – from this point of view, and we've kept three items. To say that, at this point, after talking to him, we like to bring them all the way to the end – there is always an opportunity – and in view of the fact that the margin of negotiation seems to be over, because we have a division of powers that is reversed, here it is not the legislature that controls the execution, but it is the executive that controls the legislature and the majority group of the chamber has their very restricted freedoms. Counselor, not just for you, but for the government in general; if soldiers are disciplined to the government's service! But, of course, that's what you can do for our legislative function, from this point of view. In view of this, we remove the item..., we withdraw at these times items number 21 and 22 and we only maintain number 24, and we ask Mr Orobtig to make a last effort to analyze that, as it is a technical item and more recommended for one of the contestants, I ask a little margin to the Councillor of Justice, because we believe that we have the opportunity to regulate this article better, which is the only one we maintain for the final vote. Well, with the satisfaction..., we have this intervention of this bill with the satisfaction of Catalonia..................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.133.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.134.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors, members of the public accompanying us, some of them distinguished civil rights professors... We are the first value we want to make of the bill of law is a positive value, let's say, because we think or start from the idea that if one compares the text of the constitutions of the Catalan civil right or of the compilation of the Catalan civil right and of today we look there, right? , or even today, so, well, it is obvious that there has been an intellectually very interesting effort to defend and update the Catalan civil right. And so, so, from where we come and see where we are in the construction of the Catalan civil right, I think we need to congratulate each other and it's... well, in this sense we need to give the honor that we can build law projects like those that have been brought here to Parliament to discuss and that we can approve them today as the project that is approved. I think this is a happiness that we have to do not like the chamber but, I think, as a joint legal community, right? , with regard to this issue. But that said, we think that this bill of law, therefore, is a bill of law that does not address the issue of the question of digital will with all its integrity, with all its transcendence. Perhaps not so much from the perspective of some of the criticisms that have been made by other spokespersons, but because the inadequacy of the way you approach it has to see, I think, with a tension that we have put on the table many times and, well, with which we cannot agree, right? , which is with the tension, somehow, between the private right and the public right and, ultimately, with the tension exist between the protection of exclusively individual interests and the protection of interests from falling more collectivities. It is obvious that the individual interests that were in discussion, therefore, in this law, in the protection and management of digital environments, are normal, but we were willing to take a step further and that the right is not only devoted to regulating strictly private issues, but also, in some way, to printing a look, is it not? , in this order, a look that you try to analyze what happens to the networks, that you try to identify who are the spaces of inequality to the networks and that you try to correct these situations of inequality. But this is a debate that, from the CUP - Creed Constituent, so we've experienced it many times as it lost, right? And I think it's a shame; I think that in this sense it's a shame that both Parliament, like the Government, and the Codifying Committee, like the Observer for Dret Privat, so I don't see that there are two compartments of water, one of private law and one of public law, one that apply civil courts and one that apply the administered courts, but that the interests of money are much more collectible, and we are ultimately called upon to intervene with a much more political look at it. I think, for example, of the question of housing, right? ; it is a question that we have not spoken many times, and we had this discussion, too, in some way, when we talked about the book of the Civil Code, which we approved a few months ago, When one goes before a court to try to defend measures of protection of the right to housing, the civil courts, today, do not want to apply the administrative regulations approved for this Parliament, because it is still working, in this double logic, separating what is civil law from which it is administered, which are individual interests of which they are collective interests. And the law of the right of access to housing, which we have often praised, which this Parliament has done, has not been applied in the Catalan courts of justice; it has not been applied in the Catalan courts of justice because it has continued to be based on the idea that civil law is exclusively private law and is exclusively that subject matter that is regulated in the laws relating to the Civil Code, and everything that is rules in the field of protection of the right to housing, therefore, does not affect the courts or courts, does not in any way affect the regulation of these inequalities that exist in the private sphere. I said all this to come up, somehow, to raise one of the problems that we had about the digital environment table. Is there inequality in the digital environment? Yes, very, very many. Did we have the ability, with this law, to transform all the digital environment and all the inequalities that exist? No, of course not. But will we give a signal that our will and our commitment is to turn these inequalities into digital entourage? We thought that it should be done, but in change, the government, therefore, has not been willing to enter into this issue. What are we talking about? Therefore, we are referring to the question of cyberassembly; we are referring to the question, therefore, that it is obvious that the networks are made up of asset lines that are always linked by unequal, patriarchal, homophobic relationships, by school circles where there is a situation of inequality, racism, and we have, therefore, been created, that, in these situations, a mechanism is specifically enabled so that the Generality can demand the closure of those accounts, not that it gives opinions – not that it gives opinions –, because in these situations we cannot find ourselves before, therefore, the possibility of regulating, let us say, limiting the freedom of expression, not that it is perfectly possible for us to achieve, but rather that we can achieve, in this way, rather than being able, to regulate, so to say, limit the freedom of expression, but also that we can achieve, in this way, rather than being able to achieve, so far as we can achieve, so far as we can. And, therefore, the Generality is called upon to take an attitude to counter these situations of settlement. And it's said that it's not – it's said that it's not –, no, it's not lost, because they say it's not the object of this law, that this one's going to talk about something else. Well, then, if this law speaks of digital circles, if this law speaks of closure, of cancellation, of suspension of digital accounts, at the request of parents, mothers and guardians, why can't we introduce this view, beyond private relationships, beyond private law, this more collective view, of collective interests, of trying to rebalance and, somehow, correct inequalities? So, no; no 'nsha gave an explanation, no 'nsha gave a reasonable explanation. It's not an explanation for me to say that we're already regulating it to the law of equality. This doesn't work for me, it doesn't work for me because – and here I go back to putting the issue of habitating – it sounds like the mass that has passed with the right to habitating. That is to say, when it comes to regulating the relationship between the right of ownership, and the right of banks, and the right to mortgage enforcement and denunciation, that goes to the Civil Code, maximum protection, about what we do need to legislate and do well; when it comes to regulating the right to access housing, to the protection of "habitat dwellers, somehow, to rebalance the inequality that exists between those who have ownership and those who do not have ownership, then it turns out that this is managed right, so it has another regulation, which does not interest us, in some way, from the perspective, right? , of the Civil Code, and, therefore, we generate two different areas of regulation, two different areas of protection and, therefore, two different areas of exercise of rights. Well, we don't share this view. I don't have enough to send me to a law of equality, much more than, let's just say, we're involved, somehow, with a text, I think, enough..., much more, don't we? Much more intense and much more detailed with regard to the question of the issues we have presented to the Law of Equality. But this was an opportunity and the government has given us no reason not to accept our message. Nor has he accepted our concern, the Government, of the creation of a register of last-minute intentions in Catalonia. I don't stop being surprised, do I? , because from the CUP - Creed We have always been somewhat skeptical about the concept of state structures; we have always said that we do not need to generate state structures before they are independent, from entry, because, as the central element is the exercise of the right to self-determination, so until the people of Catalonia have decided to be independent, neither should we build these structures of state and because, in fact, in the countries that have exercised the right to self-determination the structures of state have been created before independence. Therefore, we have been very skeptical about this issue. But it is curiously, once that we propose a state structure, as it would be to keep a record of the last wishes of Catalonia, where specifically we asked that we are perfectly coordinated electronically with the record of the last wishes of Madrid and, therefore, we were able, in some way, to avoid the delay that may exist at these times, when a_has to process a success, therefore, to ask for this certificate in Madrid. And, therefore, what we proposed was that you exist in Barcelona. And since this law creates a register, that it creates, since it creates one, therefore, that we do not have now, at these times, the register of guardianship names, the register of digital wills, the register of last wills, in Madrid, but that we unify it all in an electronic way and make it easier for the citizen of this issue. And if one day we're independent, so all that we'll have done, precisely; that then our citizens won't have to come to Madrid at the time to process a will or not will succession. Therefore, we put this element on the table and the government tells us not to – not to. And it does not cease to be surprising of an independentist government, or presumptively independentist, like that of Junts per el Si, that it is not intended to work in the implementation of a state structure. So, and in this sense, I can't share what Congressman Orobtig said about the tarann of poence. Well, of course, we've been respectful and cordial among ourselves, we talked when he talked – I think that's what we expect from another band, from us, that we don't throw the dishes at each other – but to say that there's been a good deal, so, to me..., I don't agree. I don't agree with that, because I think this law that we're going to pass today is not a law of the government, of Junts for the Yes, but it's a law of the chamber. And if it's a law of the chamber, I think it has to incorporate those petitions of the parliamentary groups that are so far as to deepen the project, to enrich the project and in our case from a logic of struggle against inequality and the creation of state structures, and not one thing or the other have been accepted by Juntes for the Yes. Yes, a reflection was accepted that was shared with Joan Coscubiela on the question of whether or not we should somehow protect the right to privacy after death, right? and, therefore, somehow, how we tried to regulate all the situations that are generated and will be generated. As a matter of fact, there was quite a feeling... that he had enough left, wasn't there? , of the German Constitutional Court, precisely in the line we are regulating today. But I think it's interesting, because what we're doing is opening the debate about whether or not this right to privacy has to exist in relation to the digital content after death. And this text, finally, by petition, let's say, of the parliamentary left, makes a bet for the protection of the right to privacy. I think that's the right way, we'll see what works, and in any case, we'll congratulate each other because at least one item has been inserted into the text. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For the rest... [[The timer laughs.]] Well, the other theme is a title, huh? , and, therefore, the only way [[Funnel veils]] – yes, yes – the only substantive theme has been this. In any case, congratulate us on the possibility, therefore, that these debates follow, that somehow, no? We have succeeded in building a tool that allows us to deal with the debate; but I think that we must also deepen the capacity of everyone to reach agreement, to include the proposals of others and not to exercise, nor, in this Parliament, positions of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.135.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. Next, to fix his position, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.136.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members of Parliament, we are today taking the last step towards the approval of the Bill of Digital Wills and Changes to the Second and Fourth Books of the Civil Code of Catalonia. As we have already said, this is an innovative regulation because it comes into a matter that few countries have addressed yet; it is a regulation regarding digital activity a dead end to its holder, if there has been a loss of capacity or, in another order of things, the possible intervention of parents in the digital activity of minors. This project focuses on the regulation of this issue from the perspective of the institutions of the Catalan civil law, which pretends to take advantage of competitive problems, as the adviser said in his presentation, which could occur if the topic from the point of view of telecommunications or the regulation in the matter of consumers and users had been focused. We have already said in his time that we believe regulation is uncertain, so we will not go back to repeating arguments, but we do not want to fail to explain what we have already expressed and what some lawyers have also shown, and it is that the current regulation of our civil law already allows us to give out to the needy sorghums of changes in the property and personal reality that have entailed the new technologies. And why do we say that? So, because if with the current regulation we've already gotten out of the situations that we can create with the new technologies, with the social networks, so with the digital environment, we don't understand the urgency, the extraordinary urgency of regulation. You have reiterated to us that it is a small modification of the second and fourth books of the Civil Code. There are few articles, which are modified, it is true, but it is an important modification both because it focuses on one area every time more important in people's lives, as because of the lack of models in which we can emmiralate or in which we can contrast that this regulation works. And, therefore, counselor, as we have already said, we believe that the urgency in this case corresponds more to its need to present a full range of services, if I may express it, force provided that not to an urgent need, real Catalans and Catalans. Therefore, with this we want to say that we are not discussing the opportunity of regulation, which we question is the way in which it ended. This urgency has meant, for example, that experts' appearances on the subject, and, as I stress, that it is an innovative subject in which we do not have examples in comparative law, are substantiated in a single session so that some of the participants could not attend and simply give them the opportunity to make their contributions by writing, a script that reached us practically on the same day as the deadline for presenting the papers, and therefore we were not able to take advantage of, the groups, their contributions. Was this really such an emergency, Counselor? Should we not follow the ordinary procedure that you allow us to listen to all the necessary witnesses? , that you allow us to work on a text that enters a subject in which we practically do not have references? We believe that no, that it was neither necessary nor convenient, so urgent. It took time for us all to get to work more deeply on this text; we were left with fears to make a debate with more detention, asking for the opinion of more experts, as well as of service providers; it was said before, it is important to reach a consensus, to get the collaboration of these service providers if we really want this text to be useful. We need time to work, for example, on issues related to the faculties that are given to parents, guardians or representatives of people who have lost their ability because of their survival. The withdrawal of these powers and the consequences of the actions that are carried out on the basis of them should have been more worked out, because the consequences may be important from the point of view of the assets, but also from the point of view of the personal affecting the rights of the people, such as freedom of expression. Therefore, we understand that we should have worked longer and deeper on this issue. But, obviously, you have decided; you have decided to do things quickly before doing things right, or, if you want, to do things better. And we, in front of this, have done what we can do: contribute to try to improve the text they have submitted from this bill. And we've made submissions that have all been traded or accepted. And, in this sense, we want to recognise the rapporteur's pocket, Mr Orbitg, for his willingness to do so and, indeed, his bargaining and trading power, even though sometimes, without wanting to, so it doesn't seem to have done it, does it? That's what I said before. Our contributions have been on the line, in some cases, to clarify the wording, simplifying it, because you remain the new editorial most integrated in the regulation already existing; focusing on the powers of intervention of peers or guardians or requesting, for example, the elimination of those paragraphs that we understand to be repeated. A good part of these contributions have been shared by other groups, especially for Catalonia Yes, it is. And, in short, we wanted to improve the original text, always with the idea that it is useful to Catalans and Catalans, which is, in the end and in the end, what they have entrusted us with. Finally, I should like to refer to the views of the other groups that have wanted to keep them alive to be voted on in this House. Tell them that we will give support to the de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, that, as I said, we have coincided in a name..., to a large extent with their presentations. We can not, in change, vote in favour of those of Ciutadans or those of the CUP. The first ones, because in general lines we understand that their wording is out of compliance with the text that has finally been negotiated, while in the case of the UPC, we will vote against it because we understand that they transcend the abst of the draft law that is being presented. On the subject of cyberassembly, which the representative of the CUP referred to earlier, we understand that it is worthwhile to be included in the future law, therefore, of equal treatment in which it is working. We understand that it will be collected in a law and, therefore, with the same standard and protective level that we are approving today. Finally, as I said before, let us hope that this will be a useful tool for Catalans and Catalans, in an environment that is not new, but innovative from a point of view of their legislative treatment. As has already been said here, this will surely be a first step in regulation in such an innovative environment, where we will continue to work, and where, perhaps, our regulation will be a precedent. A precedent to see which has worked or which has not finished working. Many thanks, president, councillor, deputies and deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.137.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.138.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, well, today we are happy, seems, counsel, because it is the second time in this legislature that this government approves a law; an emergency law, a law that, it seems, is not unconstitutional, and that ultimately affects the daily life of all Catalans. The first was the creation of the Couples of Facts Registry, and this, incidentally, also brings the creation of a registry, in this case of digital wills. It's not that traumatic. Do you see how it's not so traumatic to try to regularize in the competitions? And it's all positive, because it can, at the very least, help Catalan citizens, the fact that they are protected or facilitated access to certain rights, which is what they want this law to do. It's not that traumatic. Let's see if he's practicing a little... a little more. And it's that in the end... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did I leave the Civil Code? No, the Civil Code, you already know that the Constitutional Court at the end has found what we say, that it cannot regulate over its competitions, that it is the one that is used to doing, because, in this case, [[Funnel veils]] He didn't get carried away... - What can they...? ; indeed – that you have left, you are normally allowed to carry through the independence frenzy, and that makes the legislative result a nyap, and that ends normally, that it is the Constitutional Court. But the reality is that this is not the case. This... we found ourselves with a law, so, initially it was processed by emergency procedure. We have said it many times before, we believe that to make a good law it takes time, it needs to deepen, and that the presses are not a good companion, and this is the reality, right? Let's hope that with this, that it has been processed with an emergency shipment, exactly as with a couple of facts, you don't trig for a year and a half ago to open the registry, that this is another... If it's done for the emergency shipment, if you're going to attend, go, if it's corrected to the query, that you're not now trig for a year and a half to open the registry that makes the contents of this law. We'll be vigilant because that doesn't happen. Because, if not, we would have the feeling that at the end of the emergency procedure it is not a process of needing celerity, of running in order not to leave the Catalan citizen unprotected, but that what it might seem is that in the end it is the rush or correctness to get a headline, a journalistic headline. I told you at the time, I hope it's not like that. And I hope that this is not the case because, if not, in the end, you will have fallen into the paranoia of: "The more you read, the more you deserve, the more...," said the Socialist Party MP: "I filled the full of services and so I hung medals. To see, the goal, in the end, to present a law... and to approve them and to work them and to do them not only with the project, in this case, but also with the input of the rest of the parliamentary groups is to help the people. That's the point, and I guess that's what we all agree on. I believe that regulation of digital heritage is a reality, it is a good thing that it is rules, it is innovative to do so, when we do it practically before many – many – of the countries around us. But in the end, I think it's important that we analyze the content of the law. I think the pose has improved a lot. I believe that, despite the press, it is true that it has improved not only the clarity with regard to the subject of minor guardianships, but also with the creation and the prelude between declarations or last intentions that are returned to the register in relation to the register of last intentions or, at last, the will. I believe that this is positive and that, at the very least, it has been clearly defined what is or what is considered a relevant digital heritage. Now, I also have to say one thing, and I don't want to be glad that, for once, we've worked harder or less well, even though Mr. Orobtig is really a little bit of a bargain at the time. But let's not fall for congratulating each other, we don't give ourselves to the idea that we've done things well, because I think it's not only a little humble – that it is – but, after all, it's distressed. Why can you congratulate yourself if you still don't know the result of the law we pass today? Don't you think we should wait? Don't you think it's when it applies, when we can decide, and even value, if it's a good law, if it's a good tool for Catalans, if the digital heritage is protected or still with the same problem? Why, in the end and in the end, how will we know this and when can we or can't congratulate each other? So, when we know how many people have gone to the register. We have our doubts, we have doubts that the person who does not consider that it is necessary to go to a notari to make a will, does do so as a change in a register. It costs us a lot. Not just young people, because that's a lot to repeat, isn't it? "No, she's the young people. No, they can also be adults. There are people who don't even go to make a will, it costs us a lot to see that they wander into a register, but well, the pocket or practice and the government's pedagogical obligation is also to let the citizen know that this is a possibility and that they will be better protected. It's also hard enough to see if this protection is viable and this requirement is made to the foreigner's servers. Why? Because it is true that in the end, on the margin that they are in very long countries and that, in fact, they act a little over the law, they are not controllable; they also have their mechanisms and also inform us that they have determined forecasts of this law that they cannot apply, and that they are not easy to apply, in fact. We have doubts. But I think that, in the end, we worked on the project, improved with some input from the initial text. And in the end, it will be the practice and efficiency that determine whether the law is good and whether we must congratulate ourselves on this digital project. But right now, it's what we have, and I think it's good that we innovate and do it the best we can. And in this case, on the margins of the political situation so extreme that we live, we have been able to speak and reach consensus.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.139.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.140.0	Well, thank you very much, Madam President. Well, in the first place, I'd like to make these flowers. I have deduced that they were florists who gave me as the negotiator, or assign me some important negotiating skills; I am a more mediocre negotiator. In any case, what they have to do is to thank the generosity of the Department of Justice, in this case, to try to reconcile the interests of their arguments, therefore, with the hope of the law. And that's because the items that haven't been admitted, I think we can see from the outcome of today's session, they weren't due to whimsical motives, just a lot of them because they could settle a competition dispute. And they have to see above all those who had been raised for the Parliamentary Group of Citizens, but in some cases, Mr Coscubiela, even though you work very well and the people who work with you also, because they don't improve the initial text or, if not, this is our criteria. Certainly, there are other positions, as may be in this case... well, it seemed interesting to me the explanation made to us by Congressman Salellas respects what he understands of the interaction between the sphere of public law and the sphere of private law. It is a conception of the world and it is respectable, but we understand that there are other ways, such as the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Act, which are probably better suited to giving a cabuda to this demand, which has to be seen in a nutshell with what cyber-assembly is, whether it's for reasons of school bullying or for homophobic components. We understand that in this law, conceptually, there is much more fit than in a law that initially is planted to make a modest, from the numerical point of view, modification of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Modest, I insist, from the numerical point of view, that you do not from the conceptual point of view. Clari, here they say we don't congratulate each other. I'm really happy, honestly. I think we're making a leap forward; we've freed ourselves from pores and taboos and ourselves – I think I've said it the day we did the whole thing – we should be..., we should feel at times that we are following a parliament with the ability and willingness to get in to regulate innovative aspects that they have to see with reality every time more changing from the world around us. That this regulation probably won't be definitive and that, therefore, won't fix all the problems? Probably. But we will have a bridgehead from which to jump to make the necessary modifications, which will be much easier to drive and articulate than any other parliament that has ignored its obligations – because I understand that the one looking at the other side is abstract – and there is no, I insist, working for the interests of its citizens. Of the very interventions made by the different spokespersons, I believe that the difficulty of being a layman is determined, and more so, the rapporteur. And I don't think I deserve it, but it's... Mr. Coscubiela here complained that every time we zoomed in on this legislative initiative, and Mr. Benet Salellas complains that we did it from a very narrow point of view and that we should be much broader. Mr. Benet Salellas is complaining that we have lost the opportunity of basing a state structure, as it could be a record of last wills, even if..., and you already tell us that your parliamentary group is not a supporter of this terminology or of adopting these decisions at this stage, because he understands that this has to become after the reference for the independence that we are doing, and he wonders that the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, which has always been interested in basing this kind of structure, is now adjourned at a later stage. Well, listen, our antithesis is yours, shall I explain? You tell me yourself that you weren't interested in these state structures, and that you weren't conceptually betting on them. For once we give him the right, huh? For the sake of the project, as I believe our obligation is that, in the measure of the possible and as long as you do not suppose an insurmountable ideological distance, any project of it will have as much consent as possible. It is obvious that there are questions that for the little political resolution, for the little ideological result that they can behave, it is logical that we seek to reconcile everyone's interests. And probably, putting up this bill in some ideological terms, from the national point of view, much more forceful than with what we've done, we'd probably have left the support of some groups that – and now I'll refer to some of the papers they've submitted – we understand that they don't convey strictly the demands of the citizens of this country, but sometimes they do it for corporations. And in this sense, I must say to you, Mrs Lorena Roldán, spokesman for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, that his intervention seemed to me to be corporatist from the point of view of defending the interests, in this case, of digital placards of some interest group that addressed all parliamentary groups, when in the process of the preliminary draft of the Law the same Directorate General of Dret came up with a writing, as well as the rest of digital placards, to give them knowledge of the abstinence of this draft law, from which was the will of the elaboration of a standard framework to respect, and this entity, as others, did not give any further. I see that this bill advanced in this Parliament and did so in the words that it did, so, from here on, they did have an interest, and they have an interest in the sense of trying to dissuade groups from subscribing to this change in this... forgive me, or this regulation, because of the operational difficulties that this may entail. I believe that Mr. Coscubiela has been very eloquent, in the sense that the technical or operational difficulties are not, of course, minimal to some large corporations of this type. And that, in any case, our obligation is to fight for the interests, I insist, of the citizens, and, therefore, of the standard mark and as long as it is not impossible for anyone, that everyone adjusts the performance of his services to this legal mark. And I understand that from this point of view there must be no restriction. A mantra has also been repeated, which is that of the celery, the urgency in the processing, and that this has gone to the detriment of the quality of the project; and I disagree, absolutely. From the comparisons that all the parliamentary groups demanded, the only one who can make us a toilet in this case is the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We understood that the proposal that was made was excessive and exorbitant, and I have to say to my personal title that perhaps..., I am sure that Mrs. Roldán will say that it was not so, but from my point of view, therefore, that it sounded like a dilatorian, and I believe that it is the only group that in this sense can complain, because the Party of Socialists, that it is the only one that asked for the appearance of a member of the Codification Commission; Together for the Yes did not bring a member of the Codification Commission in this position, and in this sense wrong the spokesman of the Parliamentary Group of Citizens : Together for the Yes did not invite..., no fellows designated for the Si formed by the Comision of the Codification Party; You saw yourself as a dissident respecting the need and the fact that it was the wrong thing for Parliament to go on to regulate these matters. It is more, I remember your words, and I have already said so before, as regards the initiative to the public institutions of this country to take a step forward in such an important and substantial matter today. For the rest, thank the support, I understand, almost..., if not unanimous, majority of all groups to the integrity of the text, carry some specific aspects that have already made us advance. And, as far as the intervention of Esperanza García is concerned, therefore, to thank him, in any case, which makes this text expensive, and, for his reference to the book Sisè, I know it hard to say it, but the Constitutional Court has left it to you..., or the Constitutional Court, respect you, it has been moderated, because I want to remind you that the Constitutional Court has suspected, if I have not rightly recalled, three articles of the draft law on the book Sisè... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes – yes – but I remember the papers that you presented to us, and in colloquial terms I'll tell you that it was almost everything, eh? Therefore, from this point of view, it is already strong that I must say that the Constitutional Court is more moderate than you. For the rest, thanking all the groups, I insist, that we put the majority of us in front of this project. I understand that it will be important for the citizens of our country. A new project, in this case, of the Government, a new project that we are above the hand of the Department of Justice. A project that probably – and I'm saying it because I think I have..., that I know enough – in no case has it been promoted to look for a medal. I believe that Mr Carles Mundó in this legislature, of medals, has already gone far enough, among other things the closure of the centre of homes of Barcelona Model and other prison centers of the city, the same Project of Law of the Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia... And I understand, in any case, that it is a measure that is endowed with many virtues, and among them that of courage, because it goes into regulating aspects that are not us; in any case, I insist, it must be done by us, but in any case, it dignifies to whom it is promoted, that it is the Government, and it dignifies to whom it acquits, straightens, improves and finally approves it for the benefit of its citizens, as is this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] First of all, we will vote on the opinions of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, eh? I, therefore, shall vote on items 4, 6, 11 and 14. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 105 against and no abstentions. Then we will vote for the slogan of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, which is number 24. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 94 against and 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the papers of the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. First of all, we'll vote for Emena number 17. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 85, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 29. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 110 against and no abstentions. We shall then proceed to vote on the text of the opinion, but in accordance with the separate request for a vote made to us by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, we shall first vote jointly on Article 1 and paragraph 4, which corresponds to 222-2 of the Civil Code. Therefore, the vote begins. The rule was adopted by 105 votes to 25 with 25 abstentions. We shall then vote on Article 2(3), which corresponds to 222-36 of the Civil Code. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 105 votes to 25 with 25 abstentions. And we will continue to vote on Article 3(5), which corresponds to 236-17 of the Civil Code. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 105 votes to 25 with 25 abstentions. And then we will vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Draft Law on Digital Wills and Changes to the Second and Fourth Books of the Civil Code of Catalonia has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and one abstention. Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.142.0	Yes, Madam President, I ask for the word because before we had to do it, and, one for the other, I think it did not happen, that it was to ask for an extension of the agenda, concretely referring to what we talked about at the Board of Spokespersons, of a motion for a resolution concerning the whole topic of Promineria to Central Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.143.0	Okay. Yes, as long as they ask for this alteration, that I understand that it is for an expansion of the agenda relating to the Motion for a resolution on mining, which is more signed for the parliamentary groups of Junts per el Si, Ciutadans, Socialists, Catalunya Yes, it is Pot and the People's Party, ask the chamber if, according to what establishes Article 81.3 of the Rules, it is possible to approve this proposal for alteration of the agenda. [[Pause.]] Can I approve for absence? [[Pause.]] Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.144.0	Yes, in order to express the position of our parliamentary group, because it can be approved by most, certainly, of the chamber, but not by consent, because we believe that the content of the motion for a resolution is precisely in order to be seen, debated and approved, in any case, to the relevant committees. And in this sense, therefore, we disagree.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.145.0	All right, then. In any case, let's proceed to the vote, eh? [[Pause.]] We shall therefore proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda, in accordance with Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure. The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 119 votes to 10, with no abstentions. It is therefore modified in this sense the order of the day, so that the Bureau has set a deadline for submitting documents until tomorrow to the gods of the morning, because we will substantiate this point tomorrow at the last hour of the noon, is to say, at one, in any case, at one of the noon. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, we were discussing it before we started the first young man, who was thinking about one in the middle of tomorrow. So until tomorrow morning, there's time to submit papers. Now let's get on with the order of the day. [[Asking the Government about tourism]] [[300-00179/11]] And the next point is: an inquiry to the government on tourism, formulated by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Rafel Bruguera. [[Widow's remorse.]] They already know that, as always, they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, please. [[Pause.]] Mr. Bruguera, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.146.0	Yes, thank you, President. Councillor, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, on the eve of the high season, for tourism, it seemed to us opportune to address this question to the Government on tourist policies, the model that the socialists have defended, the state of the question, today, the challenges we have in front of us and some of the solutions that we are putting. The Socialists, Councillor, defend a tourism policy based on two major axes. First of all, as a model, we defend sustainability, both environmental and social; diversification, understand it as respect and empowerment of the singularities and potentialities of the territories; specialisation; quality of destinations; competitiveness, obviously, of the tourist industry; excellence, therefore, innovation, and quality occupation. And, secondly, as in the second major issue – and, therefore, as a method of managing and realising the model for which we are betting and defending, obviously – we are betting for the permanent dialogue, collaboration, cooperation and loyalty with the private tourism sector and public administrations, in order to make the international promotion of Catalonia and its brands in the world as effective and efficient as possible. Tourism has survived the severe economic crisis of the past few years. We have recovered the pre-crisis levels, but for the way we have lost, as in the least, two issues that we Socialists are extremely concerned about. In the first place, rural tourism, which is the only segment that continues without ending the crisis; and, in the second place, the workers and the workers, who continue in precariousness and lack of labor rights, because, among others, of the labour reform promoted by the People's Party and voted for Convergence and Union. We also have news of the OECD's latest report: we are at the forefront in active employment policies and in the quality of contracts; precariousness, temporality, unpaid foreign hours are the common denominator, problems affecting the third sector and, therefore, tourism and services. And in this sense, counselor, I would ask you... I ask you, in fact, if you share these two great problems, that you would want to think so. If so, what do they think they're doing? What actions do they have planned? However, it is true that tourism continues to be a competitive sector, generating employment and economic activity. It represents about 14 per cent, more or less, 14-15_percent of GDP, and also around 13_percent of the occupied population. We have, approximately, set_ thousand touristic establishments, without counting the habitats of touristic uses, of which..., 45_per_cent in hotels. We have about 800,000 seats, of which, also, not up well, 44, 45_per_cent– not up to 50_per_cent– in hotels. The year 2015 we had around 80_million overnight stays, a 69_per_cent in hotels. And last year we wanted to record a total of 22..., or around 22_million tourists, of whom 18_million were strangers. And a total amount of expenditure of EUR 18,000_million. The expense for tourists and day, which had suffered a major blow during the crisis, is recovering; slowly, but it is recovering. Maybe mass slowly. And here too, we must thank you for your efforts. And let's continue to the top of Spain's touristic estimates, of 26_percent of the total. Therefore, the figures are actually positive, counselor, and it still indicates that they will surely be able to do so as well. And that's worth it, which we have to put in value and defend it. And we don't have any ties to say it, but we also have to recognize that, in part, it's because of other destinations that are going badly through the international political and economic environment. And we would do badly, counselor, if we let ourselves be carried, therefore, by inertia and cophoism, because the competition is very, very great, huge and often fierce. We must continue to fight and work, we must continue to face and give response to the challenges we are encountering on the road. And what are those reps? To our understanding, to summarize it, basically three. In the first place, the best of the tourist quality, both the offer and the demand. The challenge, the priority must not be the quantity, to grow more or to grow more, but the quality. With this we do not mean that we have no margin for growth, especially if we bet clearly and decided on deseasonalization from the diversification and specialisation of the tourist offer. We fill our mouths talking about rural tourism, environmental tourism, cultural tourism, heritage, but, counselor, the cultural presupposition is very small and the natural parks have seen its presupposition detailed a 60_per_cent since 2010. They can hardly do cross-cutting and territorial cohesion policies with these numbers. You talked about reformulating the composition and functioning of the tourism table and the sectoral commissions that form it. He also talked about reactivating the Interdepartmental Committee on Tourism, but, look, we're at the equator of the year, of the year 2017, and the warmest one is still at the watermelon. What can you tell us? We'd like you to inform us. We need, counselor, fewer statements and good intentions, which we can share, and much more facts and concreteness. We need the government to lead and that's mulli. You, counselor – let me be critical – lead a little and it's a little mullen, beyond a theme in which you are xops, well xops. Councilman Comin was talking this morning about fets, fets and fets. For the time being, however, and especially in the tourism sector, we only see announcements, announcements and announcements. We ask them to move from propaganda to action. How is the Strategic Pla 2017-2020? 2016 is over. How do we have the sectoral territorial plan that you have also announced? We, the Socialists, were going to ask for his appearance a few months ago at the committee; it did not happen, not because of you, but because it did not subsidize itself at the committee; but, in any case, it does not cease to be relieving that it did not yet occur when we thought that this appearance could be subsisting before the beginning of the high tourist season. But the true opposite, as I said before, counselor, is the quality: the quality of the offer and also the quality of the demand. We need to talk about innovation, we need to talk about excellence and we also need to talk about improving demand. And here will be a good part of the proposals that we will put to you... that we will put the rest of the parliamentary groups in the motion following the inquiry. According to the report: sustainable tourism in a wide sense, from the point of view, as I said earlier, environmental, yes, of course, but also from the social point of view, from the point of view of compatibility of tourists, the people who visit us with their surroundings, but also with the citizens we live and live in Catalonia. And, in this sense, I would like to remind you that 2017 is the year of sustainable tourism; something we should do in this sense. We're talking about returning to the territory. Councilman Rull said this morning "return to the country, and said: "For every euro invested in environmental policies, we have a new return. So, look, more in my favor, if you let me, with these details, especially in the environmental sector and in the natural parks sector, listen, if you yourself say that for each euro invested they would generate new value added..., so, listen, it might be worth changing some priorities, because knowing that, we would invest much more value added. I minimize the negative impacts, "negative externalities, which is now going, which generates the touristic phenomenon. Therefore, in search and in search of balance and harmony between visitors and resident citizens. The third challenge – and this is what I finish – is: the better working conditions of workers and workers in the tourism sector, I have commented earlier. Counselor, I leave for the second part of my intervention some of the operative questions, some of the arguments that we will make to the motion following the inquiry, which will in some way summarize and put black on white some of the most important priorities, more strategic, more conjunctural, that we will propose to debate in the very Ple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.147.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.148.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks for your inquiry, Mr Bruguera, for all and for the focus and why we basically start from a coincidence not only of what is important..., highlight the importance of what the sector and tourism activities represent in our country, but also of which are the priorities and which are the challenges on which we have to address it. And I also hope that through your proposals, therefore, I will see if we can also agree with what policies are, how to approach it. Because we speak in politics..., tourism policy in Catalonia has a situation that is derived from its complexity, because the situations are not the same in the various areas of the territory, and solutions and possible concerns and curses that are present or very present or very localized in one area are precisely... – and what they want to avoid – are precisely those that are convenient in other situations of our..., of the territory and of the country. And, therefore, from the Government of Catalonia what we have to do is to address this situation from the complexity and with a global view, not just looking at those visions that can be punctual or that can only affect the territory. You said: "This year..., the data from the past year went well and this year continue to go well. Miri, if I tell you the results of the first four months, so, gener-April of this year, the name..., speaking on behalf of foreign tourists, created an 8_per_cent and the name of the total tourist entries grew a 12_per_cent until reaching 4,274_million euros. This is a positive data. The positive data is... and where do you see it? Let the tickets grow more than the tourist name. And that's what we have to do. What we have to do and what we have to seek to keep working, because..., to define, therefore, the reptes, the reptes that we have as the sector and as the country. And you're making it one of them; it's a challenge that we're picking up tourism for today, that it's a borrowed tourism, that it's not a tourism that sees here as the first option, but it's because the situation of insecurity in certain areas, so it's what affects them. Therefore, the repte of security is a repte that has effects on tourist flows and this is a factor to which we must be able to respond. Another: the socio-demographic changes, which are there; we need to keep in mind how the youngest sector of society evolves, the new tourist, this future tourist who has some habits and has a perception of a reality that is, many times, very different from the generations that have preceded us and from the tourisms that we are accustomed to. Or the offer too... the new offers that come from emerging countries. According to estimates of the World Tourism Organization, there are now 1,100_million tourists in the world; soon, the year 2030, there will be 1,800. Therefore, it will change both the volume and the origin of these touristic movements, which is basically emerging economies, basically in Asia and the Pacific. And you also refer to how the sector affects, and all activities related to it, the new technologies and innovation. It is obvious that in a world that every time is digitizing, with a tourist every time more informed and with nine forms of business, basically those linked to online tourism, there is a reduction in the number of actors operating on the market and we have a repte, we have the repte of innovation. Innovation and something you also refer to, which is directly related to it, which is business management. Because the management of the business must also be changed. We have to go to a more professional management, a management..., which is already, but we still have to be more; we have to enter intelligence into the market, we have to enter digitization and information and knowledge. We need to act more and more in terms of foresight and we need to take advantage of this ability that we have to manage intelligent information that we don't yet have. And, of course, another challenge is the strategy of the collaborative economy. The collaborative economy, which is and will continue to be, and therefore... because it is a new form of service offering. And what we have to do is, through... as we have a repte, the public administrations, the rule, because there is not only more legal certainty, but there is a fair competition, which is what is sought in all spheres. And yes, you're referring to five instruments. Make a reference to how, apart from the model, so, as we, as a model, what we would match with the ambits, huh? , a powerful tourism sector, which integrates the different activities. Because we're not just talking, when we're talking about tourist activities, housing. We're talking about trade, we're talking about services, we're talking about agri-food industry. A sector that, like you, we also want to be sustainable. A sector that every time we want more deseasonalized and more deconcentrated, less concentration of tourists to Barcelona and to traditional tourist destinations of sun or sea– or snow, in winter–, and to make other areas of the country; and a model that, as you have also said, centres more attention in the tourist and in the expense that generates than in the number of tourists that there are. Therefore, this is sustainability. And you did... ah, and with the dial, obviously. How are the prisons and how are the new sector and the new governance that we announced? So, dealing with it. This must be done by decree and has an administrative procedure that is regulated. And, therefore, we have already started the work to be able to make these modifications, which we would like them to be operational as soon as possible and, in any case, in the year 2017. You refer to rural tourism. It's true. Rural tourism has been a positive development for some time, hasn't it? But also with the data for the first four months, between January and April, the number of overnight stays has increased by 8 and mig per cent to 236,000. It's true – it's true – here we have to influence, and we have to influence more. It is precisely here that we have met with Turalcat, which in the end is the representation and association of rural tourism that brings together most of the sector, in order to share concerns, and also to start looking for solutions; let us solutions go through this major collaboration that must always be, but with this sector still more; a collaboration also from the same sector and between the same sector. Therefore, we are for public-private collaboration, obviously, also in this area. But there must also be greater private-private cooperation in this sector. They have to work together and they have to do things differently. He was talking to me about the instruments. He says: "The strategic plan and the marketing plan are over. It's true, they're done. They were done in 2016. And what we've done is start processing it for a period... and now we're on processing work. What happened? We've already had some meetings with all sectors; we're preparing an inquiry that wants to affect 23,000 active agents in the sector, because in the next four_months..., having finished this new strategic plan and the new tourism marketing plan. A strategic plan to incorporate our reptes, but in any case, we base it on those guidelines that are present. That is to say, we want for Catalonia a project of international country, a country that remains open to the world, also – also – in the tourist activity. Let us consider Catalonia a country that is a destination. Because we have to take advantage of those actions that we have, that is, a country that is diverse, that is varied, that is rich. We have to put the product on the basis of the tourism marketing. And here's the quality of the product. A quality offer that must also be oriented towards demand, demand for quality, a direction of more transversal tourism, is to say, where there is participation of the sector and the territories – sector and territories participating with this direction of tourism – and also with a greater presence of tourist intelligence, that is to say, of the ability of the analysis of data and of the services that today give us the new technologies to be more forward-looking and to have a greater knowledge of how the sector evolves. And then, tourism excellence, because the bet for tourism excellence is what will also bring us back to situations like a higher-quality occupation and, obviously, with the highest pay, which is what we all want. Because as we increase the quality it is necessary to increase, therefore, the ability to innovate with new form technologies and to have a more qualified occupation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.149.0	Thank you, Counsellor Baiget. There's the word Mr. Bruguera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.150.0	Thanks again. You, Counselor, have spoken of cross-cutting, and I agree, and I would like to ask you precisely that in this need to make cross-cutting policies in the tourism sector you may have more ability to influence within your Government, precisely because the subject of tourism was not only an occupation of your own, but also of the government's conjunction. And I've given you some examples that I don't want to repeat. Miri, we're gonna set up a police station on two premises. First of all, we won't make the speech that it doesn't work here and everything has to be changed. We don't intend to turn the middle, that's not it. It's not about that, I think we'll make a mistake if we do. But we will put the emphasis on some structural elements, on some strategic elements that seem to us to be facing or rather that they are not facing themselves sufficiently, and therefore, to be able to have the instruments to activate and put the sector at the forefront, which, in our opinion, can guide them in three directions that are complementary, that are precisely what we will propose in concrete measures to the young person. Three great lines. In the first place, the need to have useful tools for diagnosis, strategic definition and model realization. You said: "The strategic plan ended in 2016, the one of 2017-2020 did not have it, the territorial sectoral plan, talked about the marketing plan... Well, that's fine. But we are in 2017, we are already in the 2017 equator and, obviously, therefore, one of the first questions that we will raise to the House will be this, the need for a sense of dubious completion of these jobs in 2017, that you will appear as soon as possible to the committee so that you can talk about this issue and the governance of all this process and that, obviously, this is done with complicity and support and with the collaboration and cooperation of the private sector and the rest of public administration, especially the local world. Second question. It follows the great line of our proposals: a clear bet, I have said before, for the better quality of the model – innovation, entrepreneurship –, providing enough – and therefore also resources and money – programs, such as RIS3CAT or the projects of specialisation and competitiveness, which seem to us to be useful instruments but which need to be strengthened even more. There are sectors, there are territories of our country that are already betting, of others not so much. I think there's a lot of pedagogy to be done here, too. The need to modernise, update mature tourist areas and certain obsolete tourist establishments. This is a key theme – a key theme. I probably don't find anything out, but I think it's worth putting it on the table, because we have to keep working. Had it been a few years ago, there had also been, as I say, the central government, but for years now, for presuppositional reasons, I imagine – I wouldn't want to think that there were other reasons – so this has been abandoned a little. And, therefore, it has to be recovered. And you also said it and we share it – start to take care of the new phenomenon of the collaborative economy related to tourism, which is regular enough to avoid unfair competition. This can be understood as a problem or it can also be understood as an opportunity. We understand that from this second point of view. It's a new market segment that's also diverse, that exists, that's here and that, therefore, we don't have to take care of and we have to regulate it. But the same as before, let's start to be late, counselor, let's start to be late on this subject of these touristic segments as well. And finally, the third was a package of measures geared towards a firm compromise on the quality of the occupation and the fight against fraud, which to a large extent also has to do with the previous point: the fight against the illegal offer and the submerged economy, the increase in the inspection of work against fraud and contracting. And here's no good, counselor, pulling drivers out: you have all the competitions. It's not a third party, it's not a third party. Miri, in the Balearics, who do not have skills in job inspection, are doing a job, have done a job and are doing a very important job through a pact, a deal with the State. This is not for us, we have all the skills and we believe, sincerely, counselor, that we are not doing enough to inspect, to bring out the submerged economy in this sector and to fight for the quality of employment and training. More or less around here, counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.151.0	Mr. Bruguera, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.152.0	...our proposals. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.153.0	Thank you; thank you, Mr. Bruguera. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.154.0	All right, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, look, thank you for the proposals you have told us, which you have announced. I'm sure we can agree, because some of us are doing them and we're working them intensely. Miri, when it comes to cross-cutting and effects in other departments, we are working on it; we are working on it, for example, in the territorial area. It's true, we've started working on it now. This means a very special gathering with the Department of Territories and Sustainability. Because what we have to do, what we have to introduce is..., among the guiding elements of urbanism and also of the management of the territory, we have to make think, we have to try to think, also, in tourism, in its effects, its needs and its activities. For example, how the tourist flow affects the mobility of certain populations and areas, or how there are activities that can enter into collusion with tourist activities, depending on how the territory is planned, or also how access to certain natural parks is managed. Natural parks that I remind you that, this year, I do want to remind you that, because a great effort has been made in the presupposition of the year 2017, the presupposition destined for natural parks does not only increase, it practically doubles. Therefore, this is an effort that has been made and an effort that we want to mean. But it is true that we believe that we can do more to adapt tourism activity, too, to natural tourism, to natural parks. Because other countries, other countries that are leaders and leaders, also, in protection of their protected spaces also have some benefits, also for tourist activities, higher than ours. And I think we can learn a lot from these circles. Betting for the improvement and modernization of tourism activities and offers that can be improved and that can be... obsolete? So, yeah, we're doing it. Look, the next few weeks we'll sign off on the convenient operation with Lloret de Mar, a convenient operation that wants to do this, a conversion, too, of the whole plant and of the whole tourist model of that city and of that territory. We will do it with the congress, we will do it with the assembly and there will be the Generality; there will be no Government of the State, but there will be these three institutions. We will do this for a three-year period, and what we want to do is start, in a direct way, already, the conversion of those areas with obsolete tourism. You were talking about the presence of tourism in RIS3CAT, absolutely in agreement. Two measures that we are working on: one, the creation of the Catalonia cluster program, the creation of a tourism ICT cluster program; we must join them. We have to join them because this is no longer the future, we are talking about the present and, therefore, we are already starting to work. And, moreover, this month of July we will sign with the two universities..., with two Catalan universities, plus the deputies, plus the Barcelona Assembly, the creation of a system of intelligence and tourist information of Catalonia to do this, to take advantage of and to have more knowledge. But, look, I also want to make a reference to it, and you let me focus on... from a band, how we use resources, and, for example, how we use resources about stays in tourist establishments. And with the thought that has been approved – and that we will obviously apply because it is a law – what we believe has been done is a weak favor for deconcentration and the creation of attraction and value outside Barcelona, and also outside the areas of traditional tourism of sun and plagiarism. Because, look, maybe in his address he wanted to give more resources to the municipality, but this address is not for most of the municipalities. In fact, I will give you some data: of the 784 in locals– gatherings, consortia or district councils– that came to receive resources from the tax, a 82_per_cent– therefore, 643 – it went to receive transfers less than thirty_ thousand_euros. To go from 30 to 50, this does not suppose anything; it does not suppose that they have greater capacity for tourist promotion, prevention or ordering, they will not do anything. Who benefits? Fifteen– fifteen–, the fifteen most recapturing, which are the 1,91_percent of the recapturing municipalities. They, that..., they only take the 23_percent of the total collected; go from 30 to 50, will practically take the 40_per_cent. Do you know who's losing it? I will give you an example: the Catalan government and the projects of promotion, modernization, rationalization and tourist planning that are done through the territorial development plans. Miri, the Scale...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.155.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.156.0	... – I end, I end by quoting just one example –, the Scale will pay 54,000 euros – 54,000 euros – from the tax. It's coming back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.157.0	Counselor, you've run out of time. I have a hard time...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.158.0	...a promotion plan of 267,000. This can't hurt the future.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.159.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.160.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Inquiries to the Government on public subsidies to private communication media]] [[300-00180/11]] The next item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on public subsidies to private media, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Lord Albert Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.161.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs – the assistants – advise, raise and keep a diary has never been an easy business; in fact, in the 19th century, in our country no one considered it a business, but they were, therefore, headmen, party organs. Thus explains Agustí Calvet, Gaziel, in his story of La Vanguardia ; said thus: "That first vanguard, created for the Germans Godó, lost money, and always lost it, while he did not do anything other than the organ of the liberal monarchic party in Barcelona. And he adds: "I could have sustained the loss because they made up for it from envelopes with political influence. The protection of the Liberal Party allowed them to resuscitate with creases in the other industries they were moving. Let's remember that the Godós were made rich in the cane industry. So, a diary wasn't a bargain. To Ramon Godó, the son of one of the two founders for whom Gaziel felt revulsion after having worked at his orders, I recognize him, yes, the vision of having oriented the diary to a style of press that bequeathed to everyone and ended up forever with the Romanesque era, says Gaziel, in which the diaries only served to lose money. This commercial modernization went through the introduction of mass advertising in the pages of the diary, the skeletons and other measures, such as a paper to reduce production costs, and a broad ideological formula, which Gaziel defines in his book as "automatic compliance with triumphant institutions and defence without possible discussion of the established order". This was at the beginning of the 20th century. With the restored Generality, after the Transition, the subsidies to the media were one of the first measures of the Pujol Government, and it was linked to linguistic normalization – a motivation that we can already say from now on that we share: the media in catalá must be protected from the public sector because the market is much weaker and reduced – so that in Pujol's last term there was a bit of controversy about this issue of subsidies because it was shown that other media that did not publish in catalá were also in the environment. Therefore, the criteria of normalization was no longer the only one, and one of the perversions of the system of aids occurred: when they cease to follow objective criteria they become a discretionary tool to condition the relationships between the execution and the fourth power. Against what you might think, the truth is that you're helping the media aren't one of Catalonia's or the Spanish state's own, but they're from the world, aren't they? , and especially after World War II. And, at the expense of minority language protection, there wouldn't even be two justifications for this public aid, would there? : the promotion of political pluralism and support for an industrial sector that has sometimes been in crisis and, therefore, what it means, therefore, to work places, etc. For example, in France, after the Second World War, all the media had remained in the hands of the great capital and the first government to emerge from the anti-fits was seen, therefore, with the need to promote new media, new leaders to promote pluralism in their society. This pluralism is clear, therefore, also a reason to donate help that make us grow midjans. The other case, the third – we call minority languages, "pluralism" – is the protection of a sector in crisis. And in this case, then, help to the media could also be justified, right? That is why the great moment of world-wide press subsidization came at the time of the oil crisis and, therefore, when production costs increased and many middle-aged people came to fail. I make all these historical digressions not only to entertain them, given that they are three in the afternoon, but only because they place in the place just the political sense of aid to the press, of direct aid. We have found that press aids and other communication media have declined in some parties – for example, from direct aid to projects – to their practical disappearance. Subsidies in the project area began to be extended with the first post-tripartisan government, with Convergence and Union with the collection of the PP, until 2012 practically disappeared aid to projects in the field of media, and, in turn, the institutional advertising game increased: "Projects, which we put in 2007 by case, had 12_million euros, I insist, practically disappeared, and "Institutional advertising, which in 2007 had 20_million euros, 15 reached 30. We do not idealize a system in which help was much more abundant in the chapter of projects, as in the years of the tripartite, because surely that path was not free of arbitrariness and of granting aid to the friends. But the fact is that, with direct help, it is also much easier to establish the objective criteria, to award it transparently and to publish this information later. On the other hand, that the bulk of the money is distributed by advertising prevents us from seeing with sure who are the most benefited media. And this remains in the hands of some journalists who have studied. Recently, the ABC newspaper did so, for the period 2011-2016, and a while ago I had made the digital Critic, with the figures of a concrete year, of the year 15. By believing the data from the two articles, we see that they are not at all coincidental, and this shows that, despite the good work that journalists can do, this is not the way to know what each newspaper perceives as the fruit of institutional advertising. Also, the figures presented by the ABC Journal as well as Critic provoke interesting reflections, such as now: why the second day in circulation, which is The Journal of Catalonia, has been more subsidized with institutional advertising than La Vanguardia, when what is sought in principle with institutional advertising is the impact and, therefore, reaching out to more people. Institutional advertising has a meaning; there are examples of necessary campaigns, right? – vaccination, campaigns aimed at the great people, campaigns of road safety, the campaign for the referendum, to give to know that October 1 is going to vote against the country whether we want independence or not – but in other cases they are pure promotions, which is no longer necessary; institutional publicity is an objective in it itself, for example, in the field of tourism. What cannot in any case be institutional advertising is the main way of public support to private media. That is why we need to point out the criteria of the Commission's Institutional Publicity Advisor, which organises the competitions to which there are agencies that are now distributing it among the different heads. The first thing to demand, therefore, is that subsidies and institutional advertising are public and accessible and clear information. Even more doubt that this system generates us: why subsidies and institutional advertising are given different areas, from the Directorate General of Midjans and from the Directorate General of Dissemination, and it is not coordinated, when, in practice, advertising campaigns that are emerging are a form of subsidy, too, even though it was not the motive for which they were thinking. Another doubt that we leave in the air: could it not be an independent organ of the style of the ACC – reformed as to the election of its members, uh, the Audiovisual Council –, an independent organ, instead of the Government, who holds them in favor of the criteria that are decided upon? And finally, in order to finish this first turn, why aren't certain criteria required in the diaries that have funds, public money? For example, the campaign« Where are the women, which in some respects has had force incidence, strength succeeds, as is the case with our public radio, where from a very masculinized panorama is arriving at monthly averages on about 40_per_cent or around 40_per_cent are already women. This is what the law says, in compliment to the Law 17/2015, of effective equality of men and women: the newspapers and media that receive public subsidy should have parity as a priority. This could be a criterion. Other criteria: limit subsidies depending on the volume of billing. I mean, you can't afford public money to assume more than one mic per cent of your billing, to ensure that at least we're invested in a minimally viable business, we're not holding an artificial business line, right? Or the promotion of pluralism; it is to say, as the reference stands, that supporters of yes and no can express in all communication media to guarantee a quality debate, to extend them. Will everyone be at the height of this democratic debate? Is it legitimate for public money to be held in those newspapers that want to cover up a part of public opinion? And we could also add other criteria such as, just as a radio-electric space is reserved for Community media, which is reserved for a part of institutional advertising also for these media. Or, finally, the need for compliments of labor rights, and, therefore, worthy conveniences. Or professional rights: prioritise, for example, those media that have status of writing or professional status. We can continue to discuss these criteria in the second round of granting aid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.163.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Vice President, MPs, MPs... you've taken a break from the help system, actually, to private media and on various occasions you've mentioned the concept of discretionary media, haven't you? I assure you that you are not a woman. There is no discretion if there are no... There are some requirements, which are objective, which are verifiable, which are assessable, because the data are all public; criteria which have improved and which have also adapted to the different needs, to the different requirements, and also, obviously, to the change that has occurred in a sector – changes, transformations, revolutions..., I would not know how to qualify it. Anyway, let's go down. You've touched a lot of fears. I can agree with some of the aspects you mentioned, but let's start just the opposite, right? , for the discrepancies. Aids, public subsidies to private communication media are above all aid that is right to be protected and promoted by the Catalan and Occitan languages in the field of communication, as we all know, and I believe that we would fully agree, with you, that the Catalan language plays with a clear inferiority of conditions, especially in the private sphere, and, therefore, of retrucation, these aids also help to strengthen the communications companies that use in their journalistic content, to inform the Catalan language and the Occitan language. This is very clear on the basis of the call for these aids. Therefore, linguistic normalization in the media area as first criteria, from the whole objective, to compliance. You know that the help lines are diverse, which vary according to what the content channel is – paper, digital, radio, television; some aids we call automatic because they depend exclusively on the completion of the requirements that have been established in each of the bases, and therefore the concession derives strictly from the application of the different coefficients established in each of the concepts of the amount. And a five line of help, which is aimed at non-profit and professional organizations in the sector, for the development of initiatives that also contribute to the development of journalism and also to the strengthening of the Catalan communication space. And yes, indeed, some subsidies that since the year 2010 have been reduced by more than 50_per_cent, concretely a 54,5_per_cent. And since the year 2013 they have stopped granting grants for projects to which you refer. Our willingness has been at all times to be able to recover them. I said this here in your parliamentary office, but in 2016, you know perfectly well that we didn't have a budget, we couldn't get a budget, where our forecast was to be able to incorporate a specific item so that we could recover the grants for projects; some grants for projects on, evaluation and calculation, huh? , of these, is taken, as you know..., is taken as reference to the activity data corresponding to the previous call. And again, this year 2017, despite the existence of an effective presumption in force the Department of Presidency, so, we couldn't, we couldn't organize ourselves so that we could get this game back. The will is there, we didn't give up, but at this point, actually, we don't have these project grants. Bases of help, as I said before, that have gone up to date, that have gone up to date. You've come up with some ideas that we can perfectly consider. Precisely you mentioned to me the concepts of parenting. This comes from an approved law here in the Parliament of Catalonia. We also have the responsibility and competence of the Department of the Presidency in relation to gender policies and, therefore, this is a question that we can analyse. But anyway, there's already been an update this same year, huh? , 2017, with the best in these lines of help that existed before, these four lines of auto ajuts; some help that is found in three pots. First of all, the existence of a medium in catalá; the professionalization, because it seems to us that it also evaluates the elaboration of the contents in order to enhance them, and also the diffusion of the medium, is to say, how many people follow a certain medium. So far we have been based on the existence of a Catalan medium, its own production, its diffusion and its audience. They have introduced themselves better, as I said, depending on each of the media in the digital field, in the paper field. I think it's important to highlight the professionalism of the sector, huh? , the willingness we have to enhance the creation of a business structure in the communications and professional media sector, valuing, as criteria, as indicator, the contracted editors. But the major change has certainly been introduced into the concept of ‘diffusion support'. In digital media, for example, we introduce perfectly objective qualitative elements into the calculation of the amount that corresponds to the broadcast, such as now the medium duration of the visit or the loyalty of its unique users, right? And I don't mean in the television arena, too, how the concept of broadcasting has been transformed and, at these times, how we have reliable data through the local audiovisual network. I also want to refer to the institutional publicity you mentioned earlier. The Institutional Publicity Advisor Commission knows that it counts not only with representatives of the Government of the Generality, but also with experts external to the Administration of the Generality. Therefore, you spoke or made the comment of assimilating it to an organization, therefore, of the completely independent, as is the ACC; it is obvious that we are not here, but you know, and, if not, I explain it, that in this commission, therefore, there are external representatives, experts in the sector, because we understand that it is the best way to have a vision at the maximum of integral and holistic of the sector. And there is a good coordination despite the fact that there is a distribution depending on the competitions and the general directions. This is the power of the government, as you know, to self-organize itself as more opportune; but in any case, I assure you that this coordination, through the directors general and the respective secretaries, exists and works, and works very well. Institutional advertising that we understand as an action of the Administration that allows us to communicate with the citizenry. Obviously, an indirect support to communication media, this is evidence, with an advertising investment that yes, that he has enjoyed in later years – this is also public, it is fully transparent – of parties that have been more important than grant lines and that have recovered significantly similar amounts to those that existed before the crisis. But I honestly believe that this institutional publicity has allowed us, like the Government of the Generality, to complement with the support commitment to the Catalan communication space, and a good tool to continue to encourage and strengthen this communication space. I don't talk about reality, as this purchase of advertising spaces is; you know it very well through media centers and, obviously, also based on criteria that are one hundred_per_cent technical, one hundred_per_cent objective and, therefore, absolutely known to all of you. You were talking to me about minority languages, with the first element. That's right, I can't agree more. But it's that, besides, it's the main criteria that I move in the help. You were talking about pluralism. I believe that, by definition, we take into account the criteria we apply and the different reality of the private communications sector in Catalonia, this principle is a woman, and we will see that it is so, and it must continue to be so. And, obviously, supporting a sector in crisis, as it had before, and in constant transformation. This is the motivation, this is the intention that is behind the changes, the changes that we have tried to introduce precisely to accommodate this sector that has suffered, so the consequences of the crisis in the later years. And this is also the motivation for recovery, when it is possible from a presuppositional perspective, from support, from aid through projects.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.164.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.165.0	Well, thank you. We believe that it is a problem that institutional advertising has become the main route; precisely, for what we say. Because if from here what we have to discuss is criteria, which one deserves to be helped or not, that's much better with direct help than with institutional advertising. Because, I insist, the data that train these media that had been spilled through the portals of the Generality gave that the second day – therefore, with less diffusion – had received more money during the last six years than the first day. So that makes you think that there was some kind of covert subsidy. And if it's not, then let's know how to turn it around. We think that transparency is the Government's best ally, because we think that they share aid in the light of political loyalty, as some media can point them out, or that the Government is a masochist, because it is collecting those media that more punish for the independence political line, or you know what, that there is a B plate for which I care now so that you may someday have to take care of me again. Hey, isn't that what this is? Is it not the political loyalty that guides the government's help to the media? So, then, what's right is to get all the light we can on this corporate publicity and whose heads are rep. For example, it's information that doesn't appear in the memoirs of the advisory committee, that the journalists had to look for it. It would be very good for the memoirs, apart from asking how much money they have put into which campaigns, said who has already joined these campaigns, and, therefore, how many millions of euros have meant it in advertising. It is true that there are experts in the CAPI, I am not so clear that the function of experts is to monitor this equanimity in the distribution of campaigns, but, I think, it is more likely that these campaigns are uncertain from the perspective of gender, respect for human rights, etc., right? I think this is the role of experts, and don't tax whether the relationship between agencies and the commission is more or less fair or less transparent. Because if you're not a public data fan, I insist, it seems like you're supposed to love it, and, therefore, whoever does the search will be much more free to make interpretations interested in why one_has returned more than another. For example, I've already written the ABC Diary. It is true, the ABC newspaper did it with all political intent, because it spoke of the Generality and did not speak of the Assembly of Barcelona, which also has an important game in institutional advertising, or the four deputies, or the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, right? , but it was the Generalitat, and, moreover, already, there was also a last paragraph saying: "Institutional advertising has always been accompanied by controversy, such as the 9-N past. You already have a little embolism here that makes you strong, which is the purchase of political loyalties. To fight this transparency is the best tool. So, to make the public that has rejected what with institutional publicity, I think that's what the government protects the most about who wants to tell it, so, this, that uses media for its political project. And, we insist, we are not in favour of institutional publicity on this main road, but it should be direct help. But even if it is institutional advertising, we must demand this set of criteria that we explained before: the criteria of parity – for you, you should, the media, contemplate parity –, the criteria of pluralism and the criteria of good working conditions for your workers. So that's things that we're not the first to put them on the table. I understand, it seems to me, that the New York City Assembly has made a code of good practices at the time of posting advertising in certain mediums, and if some of these measures are not completed, this medium is no longer advertising the New York City City Assembly, and therefore we could do the same here. And on this line will also go the motion of the own Ple. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.166.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. There's the word Munté Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.167.0	Thank you very much, President. I agree that transparency is the best ally. That's why we may be here also contrasting data, evolution of aids, and also the answer to each of the criteria by which these particular aids apply. As you will understand, I absolutely deny them to the Major. The harvest is produced in those media that comply strictly with the criteria and with the requirements that lay the basis for the different calls. That's it. And precisely this type of help has the virtuality that responds to criteria that are absolutely objective. Perhaps if the aid for projects could have some criticism, it is that they could give little to a certain discretion, which is not given with the aid of those who are, in a primordial way, here talking. Therefore, here is no talk of political loyalty, in each case, the band that is quite an indeterminate concept, as you have given some examples. No, but, in any case, seriously, we are talking about the compliment of these media, that they have necessarily been adapted and that they can continue to adapt as we have been seen, right? And institutional publicity, I insist, was not initially the object of this inquiry, it seemed to me for the title, but no problem. Talk to us. You know perfectly well that institutional advertising is decided by the media centers, so the professionals of these centers, and that they opt for those media that allow each type of campaign and public to get better and better covered. And you have mentioned some campaigns that are more generic, others that are aimed at more determined and more specific collections, and it is this diversity, fortunately, plurality of existing media in our home that also allows you to take this photograph. Allow me to point. You were wondering before the On Are the Dones. How you help, precisely, to entities without a desire for work have not only not disappeared, but we have reinforced them and the call is open, so they can perfectly fit together and we can also work from this point of view. Because I insist that we want to give, as far as we can, with the premise of this year 2017, a certain reinforcement to this five pot or five line of help, beyond the four that I have mentioned before, which is what goes to entities like this, that, of course, they would all agree that they do a lot of good work. And you already pointed out a little bit the content of the motion, the criteria. Let's talk about it – let's talk about it – and analyze which ones, in a possible way, can help, therefore, to contribute to this better adequacy of some aids that, I insist, as I have done at the beginning of my intervention, pretend and have their reason to be in the promotion and protection of Catalan and Occitan language. The criteria of plurality take absolutely into account and, from here, I think it is also worth highlighting the effort that we make all folds – the same sector, but also from the Government of the Generality – with this support for professionalization, which means, obviously also, respect for conditions, therefore, more elementary from the point of view of the profession, of the professionals, of the workers and workers of the sector. Therefore, aware of the limitations that we have from a budgetary point of view, but from the absolutest certainty and confidence that there is a good deal of work from the perspective of the evaluation of these aids in the institutional committee to which we have previously referred, we believe that the value, the task, the contributions that the sectors and experts in the communication sector make help us all to configure and make decisions that are still more effective. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.168.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to give compliment to the letter to the Ministry 109/XI, on the balance of the first year since the approval of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergency, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response]] [[350-00002/11]] The next item on the agenda is the appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to compliment the 109/XI motion's letter, on the balance of the first year since the adoption of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure and insofar as the President of the Generality has requested to appear before the Plenary of the Parliament, I give the word to the President of the Generality, the very Honourable Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.169.0	Good afternoon, very honorable president. Councillors and advisors, deputies and deputies, lords and gentlemen, appear before this Parliament, on their own motion, as the President very well said, in compliment of Motion 109/XI, on the balance of the first year of the approval of Resolution 17/XI, corresponding to the monogrammatic debate on the social emergency situation and economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response, which we celebrated every March month of last year. I want to make clear, from the outset, first of all, my will and that of the entire government that I am presiding over as a compliment to a point of a motion approved for unanimous approval of this chamber, that is to say to complete a mandate from this Parliament, especially taking into account its motivation and content: to balance the implementation of a follow-up of social policy measures that aim to respond to the needs of the people who suffer most. In this sense, and as regards the import and transversality of the matter, which effectively implies the government's conjunction, not only some of the departments but the entire government, also, as I announced already in my letter of request for appearance, I will give a time of intervention to other members of the government. While social cohesion, the struggle against inequalities and the better welfare of citizens is a common goal for all departments of this government, so as not to disperse excessively this appearance, we focus our interventions on the band that I am doing at these times and what the Vice President and Councillor of Economics and History will do, in the Councillor of the Presidency and in the Councillor of Treball, Social Affairs and Families. I would like to make it clear, too, before I first entered into what is the subject of the appearance, that it was certainly never in this Parliament and on the part of a government that there had been such a thorough follow-up of the degree of compliment of a resolution approved for this chamber: with the creation of an integrated follow-up committee for the Government, parliamentary groups, social entities, unions, professional colleges and municipalist entities, which are meeting periodically – in fact, three meetings have already taken place – with the publication of a detailed bimonthly report that allows us to assess the degree of compliment on a continuous basis – there have already been seven editions – with this very appearance of balance that we are today, etc. There is no doubt that the subject of funds deserves this specific and special treatment enough, but I do not think we should let go of the opportunity to value the degree of dedication that we are all there – and there we are, all of you too – giving. It is important, therefore, to start balancing the government's policies in order to fight the poor and social exclusion, but to do so I think it is useful..., that we should determine before or before we share them or explain them or that the exposes which are the country's situation and above all who are the causes or, in my view, the main cause of the inequalities that exist; some inequalities that during the tougher years of the economic crisis were made especially clear and severe and that motivated, as I have already recalled, a year ago and then the celebration of a monografi cal debate. Mirin, according to the latest data from the Survey of Living Conditions, the Idescat, we have positive news and negative news. On one side, the poverty risk indicator, or the one that measures the proportion of people who have low entrances in relation to the population's conjunction, was set at 19.2 year 2016, that is to say, 0.2 points per mountain in 2015. On the other hand, the year 2016, a 22,5_percent of the Catalan population was at risk of poverty or social exclusion, according to the Arope tax, which is the harmonised indicator at European level, a 22,5, compared to 23.5 of the year 2015; therefore, a percentage point lower than the previous year. According to the same question, net media entries per person increased for the third year and also grew the annual net media entries of the lllars. Therefore, we improve the prospects of families. And, from the other side, according to an independent study carried out by the European Commission and referring, in this case, to the year 2011, on the index of social progress to the different European regions, we observe a fact significant: Catalonia, which in terms of GDP per capita occupies the 68_about_272 place of the regions of Europe, is to say, a relatively comfortable position, becomes the 163_about_272 in index of social progress. Someone who doesn't know the situation in Catalonia could make a simplistic reading, but if we look at the obvious and unquestionable reality this government dedicates about 75 percent of its assumptions to social policies, as the vice president will detail in his intervention; a percentage, certainly, that has not ceased to grow in the last few years. What, then, is the motivator of this gap between one indicator and the other? What is the cause that this ability to create wealth that the country has and that we have so strongly credited is not able to translate into better progress and social balance? I think the answer is quite obvious: there is a brutal fiscal deficit; 8_percent of our wealth that goes and doesn't come back, that makes a very significant part of the economic resources generated by Catalonia, resources generated with the effort of taxpayers and companies in the country, not having a return in the own country. And what is more important: this fiscal deficit prevents the productive capacity of the country from fully capil·laritizing among its citizens, becoming an obstacle to the distribution of wealth and a burden on social cohesion. The fiscal deficit is a social deficit; it implies that Catalonia is the penultimate autonomous community in resources scraps of the financing model, resources that serve to finance education, greetings, social services..., in short, the welfare of our fellow citizens. We want to invest in health, education and social services at the same level as the most advanced European countries and it is the fiscal deficit that makes it impossible. Only to be in the European media, which I am convinced is an objective that we all share, only to be in the European media, should we increase the teaching department's assumption by an additional €5,000_million, i.e. an increase in the assumption of 87_percent; in salutation, some €5,300_million, i.e. an increase of 55_percent of the presumption, and social policies, by €1,100_million, a 53_percent more of the presumption. Overall, therefore, caldria increase by 11,300_million euros the assumption of the Generality. Catalonia generates these resources, Catalonia has enough capacity to have a welfare state so powerful, but the resources go out to finance other expenses that we don't know, or don't know all, and some that we don't know don't like people, and that, besides, we don't decide ourselves and we don't have the capacity to decide. They will agree with me that what I explain to them is not new and that, identified from years ago as the main cause of the problem, the different governments of Catalonia, all, have tried to find solutions. He obviously does not seek to make the historical rest of the different proposals – the new Statute, the better of financing, the fiscal pact, etc. – that since political Catalanism with a pactist vocation has gone to the Spanish State far from the last decades. I simply believe that the moment we show that the State's answer has always been the same: a non-round, a no that has later evolved a little further up to a « I don't want. Faced with this unsustainable situation, because it is, before this economic, fiscal, political and social context, compounded in the last few years by a very severe and widespread crisis in the conjunct of Europe, and before the obvious impossibility of grasping the problem of foundations in a dialogue and agreed form, this government has not left its arms folded. Thus, the answer given to this problem has been twofold: from a band, which allocates the greatest possible part of the current budget and resources, I insist, in a context as limited as the present, on social policies. In the interventions of the Vice President, the Councillor of the Presidency and the Councillor of Work, Social Affairs and Families will degenerate with more detail this impulse and the petition of this Government in social policies, but let me put some examples that I think are worth sharing. 74.7_percent of the pressupost is for social parties; it's not an opinion, it's a given. It's also a date that I repeat that this is the highest percentage of history. They would like to remember that 2010 was set at 67,8_per_cent. Second given. The number of persons benefiting from the benefits of the Dependency Law has increased by 50_percent in the period 2011-2016, reaching 145,965 people on 16. In 2015, the Generality allocated a 45_per_cent more than the year 2010, and this took into account that instead of financing the 50_per_cent, the State only finances the 18_per_cent, and the rest is taking over the Generality. I think you're justiciable, too, so let them write it down. In addition – the third element – between 2010 and 2015 – it is also a given, it is not an opinion – the Spanish Government reduced funding for social policies by 92_per_cent. Little joke. Continuing with this list, you all know that in the 2017 budget an increase of €70_million has been foreseen in the corresponding item of the minimum income of insertion; that an additional increase of €45_million is envisaged, in addition, so that a total of €288_million will be allocated to 2017. In the field of health, the volume of surgical activity programmed and urgent in 2016_has been 13.6_per_cent higher than in 2010 – certainly, the year 2010, in which there was the highest presupposition of salvation of all history –; the waiting lists have decreased by 20_per_cent in external consultations and 7_per_cent in diagnostic tests, and the surgical list has only increased by 2_per_cent despite the reduction in diagnostics and external consultations. In habitation, 4,480 denominations have been avoided directly during the past year – directly. And the resources allocated to habitating have gone from 50_million, in 2012, to 109_million, in 2016– from 50 to 109. Any 2016, in which more than 88,000 families have been supported. Just on the 16th, thanks to the empty floor tax, they have recovered 18_million_i_mig euros that will be allocated in full to buy 350 floors for social use. In teaching, early school drop-out was reduced by 6.2 points, and we moved from 24,2 year 2012 to 18_per_cent in 2016. I, in the first quarter of 2017, is already in 16.8. The rate of graduation of ESO has increased six points in the last few years, from 81.8 in 2009-2010–81.8 – to 87.7 in 14-15. And in the later PISA report, for the first time, Catalonia is located in the middle of Spain and the European Union and the OECD in the three evaluated competitions: mathematics, science and reading comprehension. Ladies and gentlemen, these are just some examples of this government's focus on social policies. But, as I said, the government has also acted in another direction: beyond the maximization of available resources, from the at least currently available for social policies, we have worked to get to grips with the solution of the problem, which is how problems are solved, not attacking its consequences but the causes. As you know, close all the lives of the Spanish State that had been sought and worked in previous legislatures to get to grips with the situation of the fiscal deficit and self-involvement, the Juntes candidacy for the Yes, of which this government is fruit, was presented to the elections of 27 September 2015 with a program that revolved around a main axis: the creation of an independent state for Catalonia. An independent state that we want and demand not as a whim, but as a need; it needs, precisely, to be able to respond to the most basic needs of people living and working in Catalonia and to achieve a more cohesive society and a better distribution of the wealth that our country creates. Therefore, we want a state close to guarantee pensions, and therefore the welfare of our great people. And when I speak of "beneathing" I speak of dignity and decent pensions. We want a state that meets the law's funding commitments of dependency and doesn't leave so many families with anxiety. We want a state that, in the matter of poor energy, is at the side of people, not the side of interests. We want a state that does not bring to the courts the laws of housing that are adopted in this Parliament by a very large majority, as we have recorded in the Junts per el Si electoral programme; we literally say: "The national agenda and the social agenda are indestriable. One of the main reasons we want Catalonia to become a state is to consolidate the European social model and ensure the welfare of Catalans and Catalans today and tomorrow. Living better is the main goal of being able to dispose of the tools of a state. I repeat: living better is the main objective of being able to dispose of the tools of a state. So, because everyone can live better is because we want an independent state. And because everyone can live better, the first pillar of the ruling class of this legislature focuses on getting a country more just and a welfare state for everyone. In this we work with the councillors and councillors, the vice president, from the moment this government was formed, as they will be able to prove with more detail from the interventions of the members of the government that they will be able to continue. I will not, therefore, go into the detail of the presumptive and developmental measures and actions that conform to the Governance Plan and that are also captured in Resolution 17/XI, but I would certainly like to point out what seems to me to be the most significant development in the field of social policy, achieved thanks to the agreement between the Government and the promoters of the initiative. I am referring, as you know, to the agreement on the development of the guaranteed income of citizens in Catalonia; an initiative that will detail the Lower Councillor in her intervention and for which I also want to thank publicly the work carried out jointly with the parliamentary groups, with the social agents and the social entities promoting the initiative. An initiative which is not covered by Article 24.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia and which aims to overcome the situation of the poor in which some people and families are found, in order to ensure them a dignified life and their return to the labour market. As you know, it is a measure that has been accompanied by conditions and also by co-responsibility to make it effective. It is not an objective in itself, but an instrument that must facilitate job reintegration with guarantees and the restoration of the vital project. In this sense, we understand that this measure will have to be assessed and valued for the results it achieves and not just for the economic resources it devotes itself to. It may be recalled that last month the OECD issued a report which considers the debate on social protection to be necessary, indicating that it should be improved; it should be improved in view of the increase in inequality and new labour relations. The OECD rightly points out that the most sensitive would be to introduce measures such as guaranteed income in steps, which is exactly what we are doing, while at the same time debating the costs involved and the impact it has, just as we are in the follow-up committee that it will be. Various countries – for example, Finland, Canada, the Netherlands – are experimenting with similar models; others, like France, are in full debate on how to reform their social protection systems in a changing world, to make them also more sustainable and viable. We understand, therefore, the creation of this guaranteed income of citizenship as a step forward in responding to the segment of the population that suffers the most; a step forward in making social benefits to our country more rational, too, and a step forward, also, towards the country that we all want and work for. So, despite the context that we have and that I've already detailed before, we're capable of generating occupation and generating economic growth. Despite the wishes, and I don't know whether to say wishes of some, Catalonia grows, Catalonia exports, Catalonia attracts investments, Catalonia creates wealth, and, more importantly, it does so more strongly than the countries around us. That's what the data backs up. The weather – this morning was referred to – continues to shrink with an annual variation of 12,9_per_cent last month. And, as the councillor said very well in this morning's parliamentary response, and it's good to remember, it's forty-seven months of year-on-year fall – forty-seven. Inter-quarterly GDP grew by 0.7_per_cent in the first quarter of 2017, while the annual rate of variation stood at 2.5. So let's bring in fourteen quarters of annual growth, that's three years and a half. Exports are growing. Last March they grew a 17_per_cent– the highest xifra in one_month of the entire historical series– and, in the last five years, the productive foreign gross investment has grown a 32_per_cent compared to the previous five years. Catalonia has been recognized as the most attractive region to invest in southern Europe between 2016 and 2017, according to the Financial Times' FDI Intelligence. But what do we want? We want these data, these resources that the country is able to generate, and that I hope no one is discussing this evidence – this country is able to generate all these resources, all this wealth – so we want this to be better distributed among the city's conjunction so that no one is left behind. Because there is no right that, generating wealth, generating all these resources that are enough to prevent people from falling back, we don't have the tools to avoid something that is the first priority of a government that can be considered decent and dignified. You understand, why do we do the things we do? Because we want a country more socially cohesive, more balanced and more just, with more opportunities for everyone, and that, at the same time, excels in its results and people can feel satisfied and proud. That's what we have, ladies and gentlemen, hope, and that's why we're working. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.170.0	Many thanks, President – many thanks, President. Once the President has spoken, the members of the Government can speak. In the first place, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, will do so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.171.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members and Members, briefly, because the President has explained many questions which, moreover, will be supplemented, later, by the Councillor of Presidency and by the Councillor of Treball, Afers Socials and Families, and also because good part of the information dealing with the anem in the follow-up meetings that we take from time to time, every two or three months, every four months respect the plenary of the poor, so I return some data and try to straighten up, I try to order my intervention in three phone points. One is to explain a little the evolution at the length of 2016, a year in which there were still many difficulties, more than the ones we are facing in this 2017; therefore, the evolution of 2016, of a band. Presupposed commitments for 2017. And, finally, a third aside, which are the prospects of the economic evolution in this 2017 and perhaps, also, some advanced data, for the first time, the first advanced data respects what can happen in 2018. I start, therefore, with the first third of this intervention: the one that happened, the one that passed to the length of 2016, in which our availability, our presuppositional instrument was very limited because, in fact, we were in favour of what we had in 2015. Therefore, 2016 there is some data that do not accompany, some data that are not positive. The first of all, the president quoted her a while ago, is the evolution, in the question of living conditions, of the poverty risk rate, which went from 19_per_cent in 2015 to 19,2_per_cent in 2016. This is a given, but... – and it seems to me that the morning here is uplifting–, it is a relative given, and it is a relative given in the behavior of the conjunction of our per capita income. And, therefore, as per capita income went up in 2016, and as a change, the pension update by the Spanish Government was not produced in the appropriate measure to follow the behavior of middle income, so this distortion is produced. It seems that it is necessary to present it, because, in fact, with other data, in the evolution of 2016 presents more positive elements, presents more positive perspectives. And here's some example: low-work intensity lllars have decreased from 8.8 to 7.2_per_cent; so here's a positive, clearly positive evolution. The same way that people in a situation of material deprivation, who fell, fortunately, from 6.7 to 5.5_per_cent, and who have a special influence on the youngest segments of our population, in concrete terms, in the under-seventeen years, where this index, this situation of material deprivation, declined almost to half, from 11.1 to 6_per_cent. Therefore, they are positive elements that can be complemented with other indexes – the president in ugly reference a while ago –, I try to detail them only a little so as not to abuse your time and patience. For what it does to the index that compares 20_percent of families with more entries and 20_percent of families with fewer entries here also produced a reduction of the difference, because it decreased from six times to 5.5. Therefore, it is also a good indicator of a society that..., we have much left to do, obviously, we are aware of the much that remains to be done, but that progresses in a positive sense, or progressed at least 2016 in a positive sense. Three-quarters of the same if we use Gini's index, because in this case we would see that the decrease followed..., the decrease is a better, huh? , in the Gini index, it is a better in the tendency to make a distribution of income more equity; it has decreased – therefore, it has improved – from 33 points in 2014 to 32.3 in 2015 and 31.4 in 2016. I enter the second part of my intervention, that of the presuppositional availability. And, as I said a while ago, 2017 has a higher presuppositional availability than we had in the 2016 extension compared to the 2015 figures. And, in this sense, it is clear that we are convinced that, with major instruments, in this case with major instruments, we will also be in better condition to face a part of these folds; of these folds that we are aware that they are immense, that we are aware that they will continue to be very great, but that in any case, we face for the path..., at least on a positive path; we all want to be still more positive, but in any case, for a positive path. The 79_percent of the presuppostary increment..., the president remembered a moment ago that almost 75_per_cent of the presuppost is destined for social policies, for which it does the presuppostary increment, 79_per_cent, almost 80_per_cent of the presuppostary increment is destined for these social policies. And I will specifically recall some figures, because it seems to me that they are especially significant: in the field of education, an increment of 525_millions additional for the better of educational attention– we have explained many times, with all sorts of figures and details, but we remain, at the same time as the urgency of time, with the global figure: 525_millions additional for what it does for education–; 408_millions additional for what it does for salvation; 239_millions for what it does for the Department of Treball, for Social Affairs and Families, and 29_millions more for what it does for what it does for housing. I, finally, some data on the economic expectations of 2017, and I also gave some advanced data regarding 2018. As the president recalled..., he donated the xifra of the month of March, for example, in the field of exports, he said: « The best month of the history of Catalonia. Let me just contextualize it not in the last month, but in the last quarter, simply to complement the explanation. The first quarter of 2017_has also been the best quarter of Catalonia's history for exporting, with an increase of 13,6_per_cent. It is a clearly higher growth than the middle of the European Union and the middle of the euro area. It is a growth that more than triples the growth, for example, of some of the great economies of the European Union, such as, for example, French. The fall of the recorded event is also accelerated, with an annual variation of 12.9_per_cent, down. It is maintained a robust growth, and I insist that we always want it to be more and that, therefore, we will continue to work because this is still more in this next year, but a robust growth, I would say, of the affiliations to social security, with an increment of 4.2_percent of these affiliations to social security. And also good data for what it does to the tourism sector, with an increase in the tourist name of 8.4_per_cent. It is still more significant, fortunately, the increase in average spending per tourist, which is an increase of more than 12_per_cent, and this means, therefore, an increase in average spending of 3,4_per_cent. Therefore, the data in this sense are positive, with good expectations, and let me express myself in absolute terms, and here I will make a brief reference to 2018. The growth forecast that we initially made for 2017 was a 2.7 GDP growth. We are correcting it to the rise, because the set of economic institutions that observe us are correcting it to the rise. Let's wait at these moments that's around 2.9_per_cent, so good a little bit more there. If we complete the growth forecast as we did at the beginning of the exercise, we will put Catalan GDP at 233,000_million at the end of 2017. It is a very significant increase in respect to the 200,000_million in which we were nailed for almost three years as a result of our recent history. Therefore, from 200,000 to 233,000 million. If the growth expectations for 2018, of which we begin to have some advance data, is complicated, we would end 2018 with a gross domestic product of around 244,000_millions. Therefore, it is obvious that it is a very significant growth; if you allow me, a growth of almost one-quarter of the total GDP in a term of four or five years. This is the productive base and, therefore, the tax base that must allow us to finance social services, not only at the present time, with the effort that is being made among all of us, but is the best guarantee of financing these public services for the next few years. The bigger this tax base, the more muscle we have, the better we have the ability to redistribute income through wages, from direct distribution of income, and, obviously, also through the effort of public assumption. This is our commitment, this is the path we're on. I insist that we are aware of the way we have to go, but we are also convinced that if we go through all, then we can go through it with many better conditions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.172.0	Thank you, Vice President. Next is the words of Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.173.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. President, councillors, deputies, I enter quickly in matter. Just to point out, as the President has already said, that once approved the resolution that today is the object of this appearance, it was quickly constituted a follow-up commission, on May 20, which met on three occasions in total; meetings that have been extended by the number of participants, but also by the themes to be dealt with, and that have served to find us, analyze the information on the degree of compliment and listen to the different proposals and assessments on the priorityization of measures, especially by social, municipal, social agents and professional colleges; meet that for the Government they have been useful and for which we have worked before and after celebrating them. In these months we have submitted and submitted on time to the website of the Generalitat seven follow-up reports, bimonthly – the following report will be at its disposal on July 20th– ; a comprehensive follow-up, therefore, of the 273 measures of the resolution, eighty of which – a 29_per_cent – were conditional on having a pressurized for the year 2016. That wasn't possible, as you know. But, despite the situation of presupposition, we, like the government, made an effort to prioritize measures. I would point out here, to cite two examples, the benefits and aids to housing, and the feeding grants. And now, with the current assumptions of 2017, we are working to consolidate those measures that could not have been developed with the celerity that we wanted last year. But they have faced, regardless of the presuppositional conditions, the spheres of resolution with actions at all levels. From the point of view of the standard mark, because it has been defined a mark with a marked social character, there are two references to the Law of Universalization of Health Care, which we will still see here in Parliament, or Law 4/2016, of measures to protect the right to housing. Also with long-term strategies: instruments have been approved with a multiannual scope, such as the 2017-2019 strategy of the Comprehensive Mental Health Plan and additions, the programme contract with local authorities or the Catalan Refugee Plan, or the 2016-2020 Health Plan; annual programmes, with concrete programmes, calls for help in dealing with youth aid, for families with a situation of vulnerability with infants or urgent help in order to avoid habitat loss. Also with knowledge strategies, with diagnostic tools, to know with more detail the territorial conditions of the poor, for example, or the results of salvation, or the indicators of welfare and social progress to promote more precise policies. And also from the maximum institutional collaboration, working with municipalist entities to fight the poor energy. Or to demand concrete policies from the State or Europe, for example in the matter of energy policy or accompaniment for refugees. I would like to make a very quick summary of the degree of compliment of the main measures contained in the said blocks or thematic areas of the resolution, bearing in mind that we are talking about a higher degree of compliment; let us say that 87_percent of the measures are in progress or are already being applied. And let me explain here that when we speak of measures in application we refer to whether they are carried out or with a continuous deployment; when we give measures in progress they are those that cannot be given by full implementation, but they are certainly addressed; in study, because they require a preliminary analysis at their place in march, or when we mention that they depend on others because they depend on other organisms or other measures that follow a sequential order. In the matter of child poverty and food needs, concretely the guarantee of the rights of children and adolescents, surely the star proposal, the star measure, I mean, has been the increase of the coverage of the need for protection with the increase of the feeding scholarships, that covers the hundred_percent of the cost, and the establishment of our access criteria to cover the combination of needs. An intense effort has been made with municipal authorities and local councils; these new criteria have been established for the award of scholarships, changing the sufficiency index for the poor index, which has allowed the number of grantees to be expanded, with an effort to cover this 100_per_cent coverage. March month data indicates that 101,205 food aid has been coupled, of which 22,809 is the 100_per_cent of the scholarship. The past course was awarded more than 85,000 grants worth 46_million euros and this course 2016-2017, to be completed, will reach 64_million euros on fooder scholarships. It is as the President has said: no government has ever devoted so many resources to feeding scholarships. We don't call it a merit, because the compromise of all folds is that the need tends to zero. This is the real compromise we have to have. Measures that also provide for the new model of socio-educational intervention service for children and adolescents at risk; the departure of 5.1 million help to the social emergency, and also the summer measures for children and young people at risk, which many of whom will start now, just with the completion of the school year. Different measures of the resolution also mandated us to do so. Also, in the interest of surplus food, we were asked to study legislative referents, good practices to improve the profit of food, which was already done by creating an interdepartmental group that has studied these referents to improve the legislative proposal on the basis of the proposed law on food mismanagement. In the area of social inclusion and cohesion, resolutions called on us to take measures to support women who suffer abuse and abuse by increasing services and places in assembly centres and improving protection measures. Obviously, this government's response to abuse and abuse of women is that of a priority struggle, ultimately, against male violence. Beyond the concrete actions already known, the Government has planned to extend the replacement services of the island with twelve new places, coordination protocols and information transfer between prison centres, and have also introduced themselves better into the victim care model with a risk assessment system that serves as a reference for determining the most appropriate measures in each case. Also a resolution urging us to submit an annual report on the social progress of Catalonia. The government presented a first document last November on analysis, tools to address poverty and inequality, a work that must serve as a reference for this social report that allows us to assess public policies to fight inequality. I'm going too fast. In the area of habitation, one of the main solutions was to implement Law 24/2015, to address the emergence in the area of habitation. They know that we have approved the Law 4/2016, that special attention has been paid to achieving more effective in cases of urgency; the increase of the public park of the habitation until taxes more homologable with the middle of the European Union of fifteen. It should be noted that the Government has succeeded in making more social housing available: 3,960 social housing units, the result of agreements with financial entities, to which we want to add more housing this year; those that have already managed to allocate them to social housing, and to be able to expand and strengthen our capacity to respond to the urgent needs of the most vulnerable population. Also compliments the resolution that indicates the increase of the public park of lloger floors of Catalonia, expanding the foundation of housings of social lloger. Also in the fight against sensellarism, approving a basic document for the design of the comprehensive strategy for the approach of this situation. Also in poor energy is the difficulty of advancing on a subject of great sensitivity; protocols developed in agreement with the Association and the Federation of Municipalities, which have been suspected cautiously as a consequence of the pre-emptive challenge of the Government of the State; but, in any case, highlight that they have managed to sign agreeable, different agreeable companies with sub-administrators, as well as consent with municipal authorities, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona and the City of Barcelona, together with a new common model of instant convenience to the co-responsibility of sub-administrators, maintaining the departure of 10_million euros to pay the invoices for basic sub-administrations in a situation of vulnerability. Also, in the realm of dependence. The resolution urged us to ensure related economic services and the growth of home care services. Despite the context and the presuppositionary restrictions, it was also possible to move forward on this issue. We can then give more detailed information, if it is at your disposal in the reports and in the later report of the degree of compliment of this resolution. I believe that in the field of salvation – I only dedicate one second, although it is important, I am sure we can continue afterwards – the recovery of universality, thus giving the measure, the resolution, today, precisely, I said, the final vote of the opinion of the universal access law. In parallel, the rule that this law develops has also begun to work. I would not want to extend 'as much as necessary, there are other very sensitive blocks in which we have worked all folded in a very intense way, as is that of the field of refugees, in the Catalan range of refugees, an important social mobilization exist in Catalonia, the proposal that we have raised before the inaction of the European States and the Spanish State in this matter. In any case, the government's full compromise while there are some index, some poor taxes that seem absolutely extraordinary and unfair to us for our country, such as the government, of course, like Parliament, we will continue to romangangan. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.174.0	Thank you, Counselor Munté. Next, there is the words of Constellera Dolors Bassa, Constellera de Treball, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.175.0	Good afternoon, everyone, and a greeting to the representatives of the social entities that are accompanying us today. As we have seen, this government has shown our commitment to a sufficient degree, not least with regard to people's care policies, and we have focused, in particular, on those lines of action that they aim to improve the quality of life of people who are at risk, from the department that follows. Second, as the president and vice president say, the data of the Idescat, in Catalonia the risk rate is 19.2_per_cent, but I would like to remember that social transfers reduce this rate of poverty, and in our country they reduce it almost by 22.4_per_cent. Therefore, without the social transfers that we bring as government and as the Generality, we would have a rate of 41.6_per_cent in poverty. Therefore, the figures continue to be worrying, it is undeniable, especially for those people who go through it badly, and for this reason from the government we do and we will do everything possible to reverse the situation of those most disadvantaged families and to guarantee equal opportunities for everyone. In this sense, the guaranteed income of the citizenry places Catalonia among the most important and innovative countries; that they abandon, for a band, assistanceism; that we fight against exclusion and the causes that generate inequality between the people, because we want to be a society where the equality of opportunities remains for everyone and is a reality in our country. Often we are accustomed to talking about speeches about poor in a compartmentalized way: they talk about poor children, poor energy, poor workers, poor food. We, as the government, have taken a step forward, because the poor is not a reality formed by separate parts, but the poor affects people and their environment in an integral way. For this reason, instead of seeking partial solutions, we have sought answers that attack the causes of inequality and that offer that full attention to people, and there is no doubt that everyone is aware that the guaranteed income of citizenship is the answer to social emergence, to the exclusion that these people suffer, but above all it is an opportunity to take on a proposal from a more just and equal society that we have already brought in our electoral program and together with Juntes per el Si we have reaffirmed ourselves from a first moment. Thus, guaranteed income has to be an individual empowerment tool that allows people's economic and personal autonomy and empowers them to manage and assume their own responsibility. On May 15th, we were able to sign the agreement that we were asked to lead from this very Parliament, as the government, for a guaranteed income of citizenship between the same government and representatives of the popular legislative initiative. I want to thank the effort and the shared will of all parties, because our main objective was to improve the living conditions of the most disadvantaged, and we have not all lost a share, but we have all won: the entities, the government, but above all the people of our country have won. With guaranteed income we don't just want to reverse austerity, but it's an opportunity and a paradigm shift in social protection policies and the fight against the poor in the line the president was talking about. Establish a right of subjection for all persons who complete the access requirements, who will have right, without having to rely on any presuppositional limitation. Therefore, we guarantee principles, guarantee the principles of universality, solidarity and complementarity, which constitute, precisely, the manifestation of social justice; the principles of empowerment and autonomy of people in society, because they provide tools and services that strengthen people and enable them to emerge from a concrete situation of poverty. But, for us, it is also a family policy, considers the second member of the law as the right holder, to have a right to 50_percent of the guaranteed income benefit. It is also noted that it increases with a maximum of 100 euros per child, so it also addresses the issue of the poor child. As you all know, it consists of two benefits: one guaranteed and one complementary for social inclusion and for work integration. Guaranteed income means eliminating the social hardship requirement that we had at the minimum income of inclusion, a requirement that, as you know, during the year 2011, with the intention of exploding at a standstill without performance, reduced this coverage. That is to say, there will be an increase in the amounts that benefit people, which is why we wanted to ask for a gradual deployment and we agreed to a gradual deployment, based on administrative and management complexity, for four years. You can apply to the seventy offices we have from the Department of Work, Offices of the Occupational Service. Therefore, the quantities have to make the intensity of the poverty of the beneficiaries diminished. In many cases there are children. Therefore, the presence of infants, teenagers and families in Catalonia will change completely. It's the person's empowerment... it's connected to the right of work. There are limitations, we all know that it will not be easy, that day by day will bring complications, but our reality, our priority is to reverse the situation of vulnerability. We will see to it that the way will not be easy, but only with our responsibility, with the responsibility of the entities and of the whole Parliament, that you will see that, in the last question, we will approve all the technical definition that is needed to finish, we will manage to keep the law before the summer, and, therefore, on September 15th, as we said, we can put it on the march, that we are already from the government preparing all the administrative management and that..., prepared to give it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.176.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. The representatives of the parliamentary groups will continue to speak, starting with the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.177.0	Thank you, Madam President. Greetings to the entities that are joining us again today. It is good news that today we are talking about a real problem, a daily problem, which is the poor. It is not so good news that we need to do this because Parliament is forcing the Government of Catalonia to come and talk about this and because the opposition pushed a ple of poor people a year ago. And the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've done, the more we've 2014 says: "So good we can't make a plethora of poverty again. So, well, unfortunately we didn't have to do another, last year, and today we need to talk about what the Government of the Generality is doing to bring to fruition the measures that were approved in a very broad way in this Parliament last year. And I need to talk about it. Why? Because the reality of Catalonia today..., even though it seems to be lying, because the political discourses of some are others, but the political and social reality of today is that Catalonia has a much higher and higher risk of poverty than it has been a year ago, that Catalonia today suffers from unbearable job insecurity. And the reality of Catalonia today is also said to be unequal; social inequality and inequality between men and women. I have heard different members of the Government who were making a great deal of effort to overcome their own data, that is, the data given by the Idescat, but they are not talking about other indicators, for example, which say that there have been many problems, for example, in many terms of inequality between men and women, that we will already talk about, or job insecurity. Obviously, you haven't had any time restrictions. We can't talk about everything, but we can't share the economic triumphalism that we see in the second five speeches, because there will be no economic recovery in Catalonia without recovering the money from the Catalans' butxaca. And sometimes, that we hear very macro speeches, we forget about the microeconomy of the reality of Catalan llars. And it's not just about the catalan butxacs, but the catalan butxacs. Because in Catalonia, the poor girl has a woman's face, and that's a reality. It is a reality, moreover, that brought us, to the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, to present two months ago a motion that spoke precisely of this, it is "poor woman, because it is a reality the feminization of the poor, the feminization of many tasks that are not remunerated, the feminization of many jobs that have an absolutely unworthy son. And that's why we're talking about proposals, what we didn't talk about today: that we've also made the salary choice between men and women worse in the past few years, we talked about this reason of co-responsibility between men and women... certainly, the assumption of the Generality didn't find you a euro for the schools in Catalonia. We were also talking about programs to encourage parents to take more parental leave; it must be remembered that thanks to one of the first demands that came to an end from the City in the pairs that have been paired – and here we haven't had a few – they've had 15 more days of parental leave. It's still not enough, obviously, but I think it's an important advance. Or also the law that Ciutadans presented to regulate better and manage better the waiting lists. We talk about a lot of resources and we absolutely agree that the priorities in the assumptions are fundamental, but to fight against the poor, to fight against inequality, to fight against job insecurity sometimes it is not just talking about how much money we have but how we manage it. And this also requires a model change, a change in the efficiency of public policies that we are not seeing in Catalonia. Poor, unequal, precarious are structural problems. They're not just a problem with this crisis, they've come from before. Of course, it has worsened, but we cannot think that with the recovery of GDP we will recover all these indicators. Because, I insist, the policies of occupation, the policies of formation, the policies of assistance must be improved, they must be managed better in order to be able to give a more efficient service. Today I was deluded to say, "Well, for two hours we won't talk about independence, you. So, no; we need to talk about independence. I was also thinking about the escó, I say: "Of course, if Mr. Puigdemont goes out to the Faristol and doesn't speak of independence, it's that he wouldn't be Mr. Puigdemont. It's that, of course, one day we're talking about poverty, we understand that we shouldn't be talking about this subject, that it's saying that the fault of everything has the rest of Spain. Look, I don't think if you don't have this theme you can't talk, you can't do a whole lot without talking about independence. We have representation in other autonomous communities. [[Widow's remorse.]] He's not nervous.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.178.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.179.0	He's not nervous... we have important representation in other autonomous communities where there's no problem of independence and we can talk about other things. You don't, because you, if you get them off this subject, you don't know what to say anymore. But more than that. [[applause]] The least I liked – the least I liked –, not only did you talk all day about the guilt of everything in Spain: it's that if there's one day, one day only the year, if you can't talk about insolidarity it's the day we talk about poor, Mr Puigdemont. Because you're making a criminalization speech about insolidarity that is inappropriate for a president of the Generality. You did... you were mayor of Girona. I ask you, when I was mayor of Girona, I went to the rich barrels and gave them to the people of the rich barrels: "What do you know that the money that comes from your butts goes to other barrels that are poorer and do not come back? [[Greetings.]] You're doing this? Hey, didn't it hurt? I didn't do it here! You are President of the Government of Catalonia, and in Catalonia, among the different communities we have in Catalonia, there is more inequality than between Catalonia and any other autonomous community of Spain. Do you do that? You go to the rich communities and you say, "The money that comes from this region goes to the region from here and they don't come back? If he doesn't do it in Catalonia, he doesn't have to do it, why does he do it here? Why can't they talk about proposals? Miri, I'll tell you what. We are able to recognize that mistakes have to be reformed. And I say, we agree with this funding system is not equity. That is why in these assumptions, in which you have not painted or cut anything, because you are in the mixed group, the match for Catalonia has increased by 1,100_million euros. And why? Because it was necessary, and because it was just and fair. Now, do we have to stay here? No, we need to reform the financing system. But if you criticize him so much, why don't you go to the Presidents' Conference to defend a better funding system for all autonomous communities? Why don't you give your face to where these questions need to be discussed? I think that you, as President of the Generality, should defend us, should represent us, should serve us as interlocutor with the rest of Spain. But he doesn't care about these things. And I say that I respect the assumption of the Generality: it is obvious that we – and this phrase I have said many times and I return to say it today – are that responsible opposition that is able to recognize one thing. At a time of crisis, governments – not just their own, but all – are at a time when they have more social needs than ever before and have fewer public resources than ever before. And this one opposition leader can recognize you there – whenever we follow, of course. But we understand that sometimes you can't get to everything, you can't make certain speeches from your governing partners or other political forces that you can pay for everything, that everything here can be free... We've never done this before. Because we are a responsible opposition, because we know that the accounts need to be squared, because we know that no promises can be made that they cannot be fulfilled, because we are aware that sometimes we have to support assumptions that are not the best in the world, but they are better than the ones that were there before. That's what we've done. But, of course, it's with you, a government that doesn't recognize the problem... because it doesn't recognize the problem that brings us here today, that it's the poor, the precarious. Because it does an economic triumphalism that is not conducive to the situation that people in Catalonia are experiencing. Then it doesn't self-criticise. I recognize their difficulty in doing many things; but they don't do self-criticism, not one. And I'd like to have heard it today, so why they didn't do 55 percent of the measures that were approved in the House of the Poor. I had the illusion..., say: "Home, as so many speak, someone will explain why 55_percent of the measures could not be completed. Which explains a calendar to us..., today we have talked about calendars; therefore, another, which explains to us: "Look, this and this we have not yet been able to do, but we commit ourselves, with the entities, with the assemblies, with the citizens, to do so in this way and with this calendar. They didn't. And, of course, if they don't recognize the reality, if they don't self-criticise, if they don't explain why we can understand it and we can hear it, and we can accept it, because not many of the measures that have been approved have been taken –, if they don't prioritize their time and resources in fighting these problems – because for me the enemies of Catalonia are the attur, the precariousness, the poor and the unequal, they are not the person who votes no match –..., so you could have another support. But I didn't – I didn't. Because, besides, they don't tell the truth, they don't recognize the problem, they don't self-criticise, they don't prioritize and, more importantly, they say that magic will be independence. Look, we could be on the side of a government, like we're in other autonomous communities, if that government accepted reality, if you make a little – we don't ask, huh? – a little bit of self-criticism from time to time, once a year, I don't know, at least..., and if you can tell the truth to Catalans. But he didn't. And what do we care about? So, that you – you – are all day..., building a state, but do it while unpacking the welfare state. And for us it is much more important, therefore, to guarantee the state of Catalan welfare than to create a new state for Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.180.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.181.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I also have to say, Mr President, I agree that it seemed to me that the government's speech was most gratifying. And it has to be heard that opposition parties, when we go to the gallery to talk about a subject like this, are very painful social reality and speak for people, families, who are going through a lot, very badly; therefore, they need to understand exactly what I want to say. But, look, from our point of view, the families, the veins, the entities, the gatherings, have had to occupy spaces from which you have withdrawn, which are their responsibility. The report they present does not fit the reality and seeks only to preserve the resignation of a government that does not have as its main priority the struggle against social precariousness or the poor, or so it seems to us. And I start with concrete and simple examples. A year ago, we complained that they had not made the report on the situation of poverty and social inclusion, which they had undertaken in the plenary of poverty of the year 2014; we are still waiting. March 2016 was compromised to make the social progress report, and June 2017 did not exist. Another example: Cartera de servicis socials, n' actualizaza des del 2010. This is done, there are things that can be questionable, but these aren't. We believe that you have not fulfilled the parliamentary mandates most needed for families in need of our country. We are a rich country, with a population with severe poverty that your government does not care, and I want to put three concrete examples that are categorical of the level of social insensitivity that we believe the government has. First theme: school teachers in secondary school. You've shut down the beggars of public institutes. With the compaction of the school day, which has not yet been evaluated by the councillor, the secondary teachers disappeared. Details and ideological decisions have left children and children of the ESO without a midwife guaranteed; many of them, alone at home late; not that a few months back in the primary had a feeding scholarship and that now, twelve years old, we find them alone to social beggars or just don't know what's going on with them. This is not the country we want, this Parliament has made a mandate to reopen the beggars, because for us it is not an educational issue, it is an equal opportunity issue. Dependence. Catalonia has been the only autonomous community that has increased the waiting list in 2016, with official data at hand, and it is Spain's second highest after the Canaries; large people with dependence on those who do not come up alive neither the place for residence nor the provision for their cure. From our point of view, Mr President, it is unacceptable. Now, I want to take advantage of one thing to give him the right: we know he's paying for the generality more than 80 percent of the dependency and so we want to add to the complaint that the government of the state has stopped funding a policy that you don't believe in. And, therefore, I'm counting on us to claim to return to the levels predicted at Rajoy's arrival in La Moncloa, which some have already discussed. But what you have no excuse for is that other autonomous communities that have had the same detail on the part of the Government of the State, and especially those that govern governments of progress, have made great efforts and improved attention to the great people, and that you have not done. We think they can, but they haven't. Second question: minimum insertion income and guaranteed citizenship income. The year 2011 CiU and PP have detailed to the limit the minimum income of insertion. Six years have passed and the law is the same. From this point of view, the influence of Esquerra Republicana has not been seen. It is true that we have later said: "Until we have guaranteed income we will not know how to value and how to boost the minimum income of insertion. But the truth is, these years haven't been so good for the people I'm paying for this job. What we want is to put the guaranteed income of citizens in the way as soon as possible. We have contributed to the agreement that we are on the move and we are happy, but we would like to see that the work and social services offices are prepared to meet the needs of families and people who have not reached the length of this year's income. And we are here to assess the compliment of the agreements of the Year's Plede de probée passed by its government. And in this land we believe that the government's balance is not good. You have suspected, because in fact – and said before the leader of the opposition – you have not completed even half of the agreed and approved measures; in fact, one of the four approved measures in that House has not been so initiated. It is sometimes necessary to verify the completion of the commitments; the Third Sector Table has repeatedly denounced that ‘information is not sufficiently accurate, quantified, up-to-date and accompanied by impact indicators', and I quote it literally. The Ple of the poor has raised some great expectations in and out of the chamber. That is why, among other things, a great deal of agreement was reached between all the parliamentary groups, and that many entities that work the poor in our country, inequalities, social exclusion, vengeful, working, proposing and collissing with great expectation the resolutions of that plenary. Around the fight against the poor we do have a great deal of agreement, but unfortunately we already had the feeling that perhaps there was not enough political will to push it forward. And the facts, sadly, give us reason. We feel them vibrating when they talk about the reference, when they talk about independence, when everything will be resolved, because it is already known that there is no poverty in the independent countries. But when it comes to poverty, here we don't find this dip, this gain, this will, this vibration. I don't want to upset them with checks, but with a pair there wouldn't be enough to prove that what I say is true. According to the Survey of Living Conditions of the Last Month of May, the indicator of the risk of poverty in Catalonia, which measures the proportion of people who have low entrances in relation to the population, is located in 19.2_per_cent; a rate two tenths higher than that of the year 2015, with a special incidence between young and adults, especially the majors of sixty-five years, who have seen their poverty increased by 2.9 points. The study "Desheretats, of Save the Children, made public last month of fever, says that families with less resources have impoverished themselves a 31_per_cent more than the rest; they are growing the abyss between rich and poor, with a special affect on childhood. This trend does not seem to be fighting or reversing itself. And, therefore, we believe that the poor must be the priority, and it must be by any government. What do we need? Things that go well. And with this, finally, he is not confounded, president: when we create jobs we are happy, when we come in investments we are happy, when the country has been quite happy; now, when the relative best of some serves to cover up the difficulty of many others and to obscure a situation of growing social difficulty, then we do not like it so much. Therefore, we can rejoice and rejoice in the things that are good, but we are forced to underline what is not very good, which precisely affects the weaker sectors of our society. Many of the measures that are on the march in great measure were continuations of policies that already exist. And it is true that for a while they had an excuse, a pretext: they had no presupposition. They blame us all, even though you just wanted to approve it with the CUP. But it's true, in an exercise they didn't have any assumptions. Then they came to us with a premise that, they say, "is the most social of history. All right. But there are still many commitments pending. In fact, I'm talking about questions that aren't even as expensive as euros. Nor the summonses. They called the National Table of Childhood four_months later than it played, and they only called two shots – in May 2016 – the committee that has to vet for the compliment of the protocols of sexual settlement and abuse. Therefore, there are many elements that are not only to put up, but to make them sensitive, to show that they are priorities, that social complicity is being sought, that they are not giving themselves. It is true that there are better in the economy – it is true. But we also have to recognize that there are sectors that have not seen themselves flushed for this relative better. And this is where public powers have to act, this is where their government has to act. The economic adjustment has translated into a significant wage reduction, in the precariousness of the labour market, in the increase in the number of poor workers, is to say, people who, despite working, cannot reach the end of the month. Many young and long-suffering people are condemned not to get out of the cycle vices of precariousness and the past, and, before that, we do not see effective policies that improve the quality of life of these people. Since May of last year, you have been studying Pla for inclusion and social cohesion in Catalonia. It's time to study, it's time to get to work, to decide. Keep thinking, too, of the implementation of an economic benefit for the child, addressed to infants and adolescents from zero to different years. They've been studying for a year if they increase the number of squadron moves to deal with cases of mistreatment of women. They still have an adequate training offer for job seekers with functional diversity. We've said it many times, we get out in gatherings, in all colors, that it's the ones who finish a job of supplementation when you don't face up to your commitments and continue studying what to do. Mr President, it is certainly not as long as we are left in the legislature, but from all our means we would like to have a higher compromise – and, believe me, we believe it is possible – of your government to bring forward the measures of the plenary of the poor. We need, I also asked you for the head of the opposition, a timetable, concrete commitments that allow us to verify that this will that you say you actually have is translated into government action. Priorities, for us? Obviously, childhood is one, very clear; the creation of occupation; the access to housing, where I want to recognize that there has been a very important increase in endowments, and, in this sense, Constellera Borràs has also done a great job in many lands and, therefore, it does not cost me people to accept it, but we believe that we need to do a lot more. There is a dramatic situation of mass people in Catalonia. From our point of view, the plenary of the poor and its resolutions were a great opportunity to face this situation so difficult; an opportunity that, from our point of view, has been embarrassed for the government, which has not made social cohesion its main concern. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.182.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Next, has the word Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.183.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Councillors, Councillors, a year and social entities present again, after a year and three months after we made that extraordinary plethora of social emergence. One year and three months later, today inequalities and social emergence continue to be the country's main problem. We're talking about social emergence again in this House, not in the minds of the government, but because we've forced it from the opposition of the left. We are going back to talking, basically, about how we put hints at a taste of the poor, when we should be laying down these structural measures to solve this main problem of our country, which is poverty and inequality. Therefore, with these circumstances I believe that we can allow zero cophosm, zero self-completion, nor that it is by absolute respect to that people who are patenting; zero juggling with the data, too, because the data explained in a certain way without the context do not cease to be juggling. And that's what we heard, listening today to a good part of the data that he brought us, especially the introduction or the first part of the explanation that the president made. And zero appropriation, too, of that work that has been done during this time against the poor and against inequalities, from assemblies or from social entities. Zero appropriation of the possibility of all of us celebrating that we have a guaranteed income of citizenship, which will be a success of those entities and those volunteers and volunteers who four years ago – much more, but four years ago – who have been fighting from Parliament [[some applause]] to have a guaranteed income of citizenship. For sure, four years, because it has been holding back in the last legislature since a government of Democratic Convergence, with the support of Republican Left; four years in which people have been patenting and could have had the resources to avoid being patenting those circumstances. And one year and a half, or one year and three months – one year and a half, because it was already a government compromise previously – in which Constable Bassa said that while there has not been this guaranteed income of citizenship it would reform the minimum income of insertion. And this is not one of the points that you can today show here co-sponsorship of one of the agreements of the Social Emergence Plenary a year and three months ago. So, today, today – today – June 2017, let's continue with that minimal insertion income detailed for the Government But applied by this Government of Junts for the Yes. Things have been done, obviously, in a year and three months things have been done, we do not deny it, but we believe that we can only..., say that this is an insufficient compliment; insufficient because, what we were talking about, measures..., in the Social Emergencies were precisely urgent, urgent measures to attend to the social Emergencies. One year and three months later it is not humanely justifiable that urgent measures to address social emergence have not come to an end, because it means that we could be in a much better position to respect this main problem in our country, poverty and social inequality. Some other concrete incompliments? She said, Consellera Bassa, the minimum income for insertion, and more you have not given explanations, she has focused basically on her intervention only in the guaranteed income of citizenship, perhaps precisely because there is no need to give explanation of many other incompliments of what is going on. You have included in the 2017 budget a social emergency aid item for an import of EUR 5,1_million. It is the same as 2016: 2016 the assemblies were destined for the social emergency 60_million euros, twelve times more than the one allocated to it by the Catalan Government. This is a lack of priority. Beakers, eater. They have increased the number of primary schools, still insufficiently, but it is that ESO only has a pilot test in Barcelona, advise, in centres of maximum complexity, and for infants from zero to three years zero_euro for at-home scholarships. Zero absolute also in the recovery of the financing of the schools bressol by the Generality; it is making the congress, not the Generality. They follow without regulating the Law 24/2015 of housing emergency and poor energy, humanly unjustifiable. They haven't expropriated any habitat. Where are, by any chance, the empty habitats that had been signed with the banks? On this issue too, basically, they are passing the pilot to the joints, without resources and without regulation because they can act. The strategy respects the attention given to people who are not at home and who have not yet achieved anything more than in a public announcement that they will do something. As they continue to announce, also from seven years ago – now Constellera Bassa, before her predecessor – the presentation of the law of personal autonomy; announced – announced. Special work centres. They tell us that they have increased the funding for employment to 91 million, but they know that with this they don't even cover what was already the year before. Emergency measures to respond to the emergency. It cannot be justified that in these fears we are not compiling with the country, not compiling with the government. I, yes, continue not to take the initiative. You are not the ones who are taking the initiative on this issue, it is civil society, you are the entities of the third sector, and you are the assemblies and the local world, and in this chamber, we are the opposition of the left. The Social Emergence Plea was celebrated because we called on the Socialist Party and Catalonia to do so. That there is a periodic follow-up to the agreements of the Social Emergence Plenary is because there was a resolution put forward for the groups that we set up. That today you come to do an accounting is because there was a movement from Catalonia. Yes, it may have asked that this is done within a maximum of two months. And if we take these initiatives, it's because we have the feeling that the government doesn't prioritize these policies, and the most obvious proof is the assumptions of 2017. Now yes, already presuppositions, that, once and for all, for the right and the reverse, we have said to ourselves and much more than they are – they are not, they are not – the most social presuppositions of history. However, it has not been possible to update Catalonia's performance indicator, which has been frozen since 2010. And this is an emergency to attend to the emergence. If we are not worse off because civil society and the assemblies have multiplied their efforts by a thousand, thus bringing about their lack of existence or inadequacy. But to go further, we gave it to the Social Emergence Plenary a year and three months ago, and we repeat it. For us, these proposals, these measures, were only a first stage of what to do. What we need is measures that structurally reverse the poor and inequalities, that Catalonia needs a global co-responsibility project. This means guaranteed citizenship – yes, he will – but he also wants to say co-responsibility with the assemblies, to stop passing them constantly without providing them with either the regulatory tools or the resources to be able to attend to the emergence, which is taking place from the assemblies. And that means, too, securing sufficient resources. And you're right, Mr Puigdemont, the fiscal deficit is a social deficit. The problem is that you are refusing to deal with this tax deficit with resources, which you can deal with, with the taxes in which you have skills. For four times we have presented, in this Parliament, the proposal to modify the inheritance tax or to increase the types of the IRPF or to change the inheritance tax. Four times we've been told no. And continue to justify it with liberal speeches, such as that made by Mr Junqueras today, who understand it there– understand it–, of course, any of the European liberals or any other state. Because GDP is rising, Mr Junqueras, but as much as GDP is rising, the cruelty of the poor we have in our country. It is not only with the increase in GDP, with the increase in exports that we will deal with or solve this problem of the fiscal deficit that entails a social deficit. Catalonia is not poor, but the wealth of Catalonia is very poorly distributed, we have told them a thousand times, and if we do not transform this distribution of wealth to our country we will not have a more just country, nor a more free country – nor a more free country – because we cannot be talking about democratic developments or the development of national rights, whichever time we want to arrive, on the basis of a broken, malmised or automated society. And what we have today in Catalonia is a fractured country, not for linguistic reasons, it is a fractured country for inequality. I don't want to compare with other autonomous communities to look for these inequalities and these fractures. At the side of my house, between Matadepera and the barrier of the Arenas of Terrassa – Mr. Rull knows it – there is no laughing matter, there is an abyss. The inequalities are in our barrels, in our cities, and the only way to fight these inequalities is with courage and with a change of course in the policies that have gone down until now. Regrettably, the balance they make of the Social Emergencies Plea, only emergency measures to resolve the Emergencies, is not a change of course, and the speeches we have heard to justify it are still less a change of timing in the policies of the past. Surely, as Mr. Iceta said, this legislature has little left. So let's hope that I've kept it for the sake of the citizenry, that this inequality and this poor thing is painted. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.184.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.185.0	Madam President... Mr President, members of the Government, Members of Parliament, allow me to begin my intervention by making them a recognition, a recognition of the difficulty at the time of articulating the Ple and my intervention in this Ple is talking about the poor, and, at the same time, reflection on the usefulness of this, and I say it with great sincerity. And I say all this because, frankly, it is difficult to articulate a qualitatively interesting debate when those you have before you, that in this case it is you, Mr. Junqueras, Mr. Puigdemont and the members of the Government, the only recourse they have to deal with the inactivity of their Government and the abandonment of their responsibilities in matters is to systematically blame the Government of Spain. To be honest, it's very complicated: a sorting run, a sorting that serves so much for fiscal policies, for infrastructure policies, for teaching policies, for sanitation, so much so! , the fault always has Madrid and the fault always has the Government of Spain. It is clear that Catalonia and the conjunct of our country, Spain, has suffered the consequences of which has surely been the worst economic crisis we have experienced in the past seventy or eighty years. Eight years of crisis where the entire population has been punished – it is certain that some to a greater or lesser degree – but especially, if there is one part, a segment of the population that has suffered from this crisis, has been the middle class. A middle class I'd like to... because here we're talking about figures, we're talking about programs, all very abstract. I'd like to pose him face, I'd like him to be visualized. A middle class, which has suffered from the crisis, of which the vast majority could be young or middle-aged couples, with a child, who were paying a mortgage and who were paying a car, and which, motivated, therefore, by the time our society suffered, were left at the time and which they had to pull forward and which they were able to pull forward thanks, in the vast majority of cases, to which they had a family and, concretely, a couple who were retired persons, who were retired persons, who with retirement pay were kept, kept their children, who were at the time, and also kept their nets. And, therefore, my first words I want to be grateful to the family network. The second aspect that I want to highlight, and which is important for then getting into concrete, is the work that has led to the completion of the assemblies, regardless of the political colors. You've been mayor, Mr. Junqueras, I too, and we know what we're talking about. I'm talking about the fact that, Mr. Puigdemont, in the immediate past and now, they have shown that, far from all these years, the Generalita has forgotten the gatherings at the time of making them cost to answer to the problems – to the problems – of the poor that have experienced a part of the population. It has been the most direct Administration, it has been the joints that have managed in an exemplary way the own competences and the non-own competences that correspond to the Generalitat de Catalunya and that, as I said, in most cases what it has done is to look at the other side. And I could talk to him about the groceries; I could talk to him, in some cases, about dependent laws; we could talk to him about municipal schools... Unfortunately, he has not been able, the Government of Catalonia and its Government, to give adequate response to all those people who were in need. We have been witnesses..., I have been witnesses of how the Generalitat, the Generalitat system has refused to give support to a part of the population, in pairs, like goddesses, young, middle class, who have been punished and rejected, because in most cases it is supposed that their poor were not extreme. What has ended up causing is a comparative burden on a very important part of Catalan society. Therefore, Mr President, what I want to convey to you is that in most cases your Government's response has not been at the height of the circumstances; it has not been in the past and it has not been in the past at the moment when the economic recovery by the administrations was not possible, so it has allowed a series of actions that in the past were not possible. And I can also point out, and here it didn't happen, and it seems to me that I should have responded to you, Mr. President..., is to make a reassessment of social entities. Social entities that have been on the side of people who have gone through it badly when the administrations have not done it, when the Generalitat of Catalonia has not done it. So it seems to me that you've had a bad time here. I want to say to him that not so alone..., you see his actions of the past year, of the past also, but above all of the past year, Mr President, not so alone you and your government have left here in Catalonia those Catalans who are not independent, but they have also abandoned those Catalans who were passing it worse. And that seems to us to be the one that's completely inadmissible. The Generalitat de Catalunya turns out that it has no money for social policies, it does not have enough money for hard to term social policies. There is no money for education, there is no money for dependence, but in change, Mr Puigdemont, there are money and there are millions to create state structures, foreign offices with the appearance of an embassy or to water economically with subsidies to entities like the separatist process. To us it seems that they have not been in this aspect at the height of the circumstances and I am surprised that a government, at the front of which there are two people who have been mayors of their municipalities, lacks this sensitivity to the people who are going through it frankly badly. If economic growth and occupation – and I think we agree with that – have a clear connection to the decline in inequality and poverty, the first criticism that needs to be made from a point of view of talking about concrete issues, figures, numbers, is that the Generality with its inaction in economic policy and in favour of economic recovery has not helped enough. You pointed out in your speech, Mr President..., you said: "It is that the Generality does not have the capacity to decide on an important part of the money we have. I would like to remind you that this model of financing has been thrown forward with the Socialist Party vote and with the vote of its governing partner's party, that you have secured its right, which is Mr Junqueras, and I have to say: the assemblies have also not been able to decide when the Government that you have capped has retaliated them you serve, as can be, for example, those of the schools in Bressol. Therefore, we ask you not to apologize for passing responsibilities to third parties, because it is able to manage and resources in you rather than envelopes. We could also have asked him..., we would like to suggest that we could make him a long relationship of reforms of economic proposals that, for example, the Government of Spain in these months, the last few years, has had to finish to promote this economic recovery and that the poor people's network, that at these times, or that in the past had also been in our society, little by little, diminished how fortunately it is succeeding, right? But these reforms, when we apply them here in Catalonia, when we apply them..., your government, say'muna_sola mesure, Mr President, an economic measure that your government has had to finish that serves to reactivate the economic situation. Not one. It's true that the Catalan economy, and you pointed it out, and the companies are pulling forward. Fortunately, we have the enterprises, entrepreneurs and all the people who drive their economy and from a professional point of view, because from the realm of administration, from the realm of the Generality of Catalonia, the only one that we can see is political instability, institutional instability and, therefore, also economic instability. Mr President, I would like to ask you..., and for concrete purposes, I leave many aspects to you, but I would like to ask you, Mr President, that you are centered on the real problems that Catalans have, and especially those of those who are worse off. You are captivated in a rupturistic adventure that will not bring us, a rupturistic adventure that if you do not mean wasting time and money we could say: "So, listen to me, do what you think is appropriate, but the reality, Mr President and Mr Junqueras, is that its distraction from the real problems that Catalans have, and especially from those that worse are passing it, is provoking that it is not giving answers that are at the height of circumstances, nor answers from a political point of view, nor, unfortunately, from an economic and social point of view. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.186.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.187.0	Thank you. Well, today we will not focus our intervention or put more into the situation of the poor, which we have already done in the plenary of the poor, we have done in plenary where the assumptions were decided, we have done again in the debate of general policy; nor in how to put small pieces – shoots, as said the Catalonian company Yes that it is Pot – to look to reduce the situation of the poor. Among other things, because, according to the Government, of the resolutions adopted in the plenary of the poor, the vast majority are realizing themselves, some others are in progress, some others are developing, etcetera. Still, we see that reality is coughing up and that the poor are still affecting around a quarter of our population. Interestingly, I agree with Mrs. Arrimadas: it is true, we must begin to think and accept that the existence of the poor is a structural problem and that it goes from the far. Clari, go from the moon, why? Because it is the basis of the neo-liberal economic policies in force that you defend. And why? Because capitalist cowardice has been chronicled and the poor have been perpetuated. Perhaps it would be worth more, it would pay more to talk of fighting against cowardice than not fighting against the poor. And also, Mrs. Arrimadas, I will not speak of independence or reference. Because, fix's, what I want to talk about is the republic, the Catalan republic, as the mark that has to open a door for us and that has to allow us to create a state that really puts people at the center of public policies and displace this economic growth that you continually talk about. As the president – president said, this is what the CUP already said – we must gather..., we cannot talk about national policy without a social agenda; we cannot talk about a social agenda without talking about national policies. And on this line, we would focus my intervention on a few small pillars that we believe should be based... on which this new republic is to be based, this new state that we want to build. The first is the redistribution of wealth. Because yes, because we are capable of producing rich enough for the maintenance of all, but in change we are still perpetuating an economic model that seems to be destitute. We have to stop thinking about welfare models to understand that as a society we have to guarantee, for a question of justice, because we are talking about rights, exercise rights, a life worthy of all people who were born or not in our home. Remember, our home is your home. In this sense, the Bill of Law on guaranteed citizenship income that the members of the government repeatedly spoke of has been a sham, we understand that it is an indisputably indispensable proposal but still insufficient. And we are proposing today because, Catalan government, despite your efforts, you are making a series of advertisements and paying honest plans to the newspaper, boasting of this law, this law has not yet been approved; this law is still under discussion. And, therefore, there would be some respect for this legislative institution and for the Commission to promote the law, the ILP, to let us approve this law and then be able to advertise it. We say that it is essential because it will help, without doubt, to improve the situation of those people who suffer misery. But it's not enough because it's not going to fall into the background of the problem and it's not going to substantially alter the inequalities we're experiencing. The president said: "With this guaranteed income, we overcome the situation of the poor and offer a dignified life. I would be more modest, I would say that with this guaranteed income of citizenship we can guarantee a decent subsistence, which is different from a dignified life. Yes, we have to move forward that in order to secure tickets for everyone and to make it possible we continue to talk about exercising rights: those who have the most might need to collaborate more. And, in this sense, we deeply regret that this government is still stuck in the band at the time of embarking on proposals that touch on the privileges of the upper classes and that it has not even wanted to negotiate the IRPF's bid on the higher trams, the tax on inheritances and donations or the tax on assets. To remember that it is true, that we could of many ways improve the Catalan taxation. In Catalonia there are twenty-i-seven people, families, who hold together a capital equivalent to the generality's assumption, 24,400_millions; the one that represents 903_millions of euros per head, per family. Is it really not possible for them to apply more ad hoc fiscal measures in the way of having... correcting inequalities and reducing the list between the rich and the poor? Moreover, the creation of a new state must allow us to create these instruments, we instruments, which the Government was also talking about, the President was talking about. Who are we? For example, bank deposits, which have been suspended by the Constitutional Court, or act on corporate tax or against tax fraud in order to increase public policy recovery and capacity for the benefit of the majority, for the benefit of these most disadvantaged people. According to this, restructuring of the production system and the labour market. I said: "Turn down. The weather is low, but our young people are migrating, but the poor workers are being set up, but precariousness is being chronicled. Therefore, we should see if all those people who, while working for forty hours, as Mr. Iceta told us, cannot cope with their expenses... And we should remember, too, that among this precarious work there is the feminization of the poor: impoverished women, women with enormous degrees of precariousness, women abused at work; women, women..., always women in the worst place. We cannot afford to continue building an economic model based on precarious jobs, as a good part of those generated by tourism – in terms of tourism – and which, moreover, causes a lot of negative externalities. We need to move forward with a product model based on the industrial sector – which can be reconverted, made more respectful of the environment, less resource predatory, sustainable – and an agricultural sector and its derived industry that allows the country's food sovereignty and a balanced production with domestic demand. And to help this process bring about the creation of a real public bank, which does not rely on capital accumulation and its reversal to achieve short-term benefits, but prioritizes the most strategic sectors and social benefits; a bank that creates product fabric and not real estate speculation. And if we're talking about poor workers, it's imperative to set a minimum wage. In this sense, we have offered on various occasions to lower the sum of the high charges and to set a minimum wage of 1.200 euros for all those workers of the enterprises contracted for by the Government of Catalonia, in which we would find that the majority of women perceive below those of their working companies. Let us, therefore, balance the rights. It is worth saying that this proposal has been rejected for the group that supports the Government as well as for most parliamentary groups. Third, the creation of a public sector that guarantees basic rights and equal opportunities. We must reverse austerity policies and the dismantling of the public sector after decades. The equation is very clear: every time we privatize a service there is a company that assumes it with the sole objective of obtaining an economic benefit. And this benefit can only be generated if the service ends up being more for the Administration or for its users, or if the working conditions of contracted workers worsen. Schools, institutes, like the public university, of quality and gratuity, must be a main element to guarantee a minimum of equality of opportunity and must serve above all to break the vicious circle of the heritage of the poor. We need to move on to a unique model of public school. And we must take advantage of this process of creating a new republic to change the balance between the private sector and the public, to have more resources and tools to put them in the service of the citizenry. Energy, water and communications cannot continue in the hands of private companies that prioritize the collection of a waste from their customers before people's lives. As we recall, Natural Gas executed the case of the citizen of Reus. And finally, we think it's basic to end up with this capitalism of friends around the Bernabéu stage, but also from high school, where we privatize all the winnings to end up socializing the losers and ending up feeling a bit of corruption. I, lastly, guarantee the right to habitat. True, we have put up with 4,480 – up to date, not eliminated – but it turns out that we have had 10,800 annual appointments, at a rate of thirty days. We can't go on allowing speculation with a right as powerful as habitating. And we believe that public intervention in this area is essential. You can really think of access to housing as a right of all people and not as a commodity. Ideally, just outside that the public administrations were the owners of a significant percentage of the housing. While we do not continue to reverse this situation, we have to do valiant pricing policies or expropriations in the event of large habitations. Because public administration cannot, under any concept, turn victims of residential exclusion into culprits. Cal, together with the assemblies, take up the issue, the problem, and give response to sensillarism and above all advance into a national housing plan that responds to a current paradigm and draws a clear strategy according to the right. We are ahead of a unique opportunity to make this small country an example and engine of change, to show that there are other ways of hearing economic and social relations, because, in the end, the way out of the poor is not just a constant individual struggle, but it must become a permanent collective struggle. It's over, now it's over. To this republic of rights, the UPC will not repeat or emulate another welfare state; we know its causes and effects. We want a republic that the daily life is fine; a republic where the maintenance of life, dignity and individual and collective freedom becomes the basis of coexistence. Let us build it; then we will no longer be able to make more plenary over the poor. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.188.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words of Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.189.0	All right, thank you, President. A cordial greeting, therefore, to all the members of the different, let us say, social actors who today accompany us; to the members of the Government, who also accompany us, a cordial greeting; to all, obviously, to the councillors, presidents, lords, deputies and deputies. Miri, I will begin as most of you have begun. I, listen'm, will address even concretely some of you. Mrs. Arrimadas, if the enemy is the poor and the poor, why hasn't he made a proposal, instead of plunging the loss for two minutes without talking concretely about the poor, for example? [[Greetings.]] Mr. Iceta, we're also speaking on behalf of the people you're suffering from, why, man! The president and counselors are getting tired of seeing people they're hurting. But do you know what's going on? That, unlike you, we do not believe, let us say, that the social sector and the people who suffer are our heritage. No, we don't. We're in any case representing them. Mrs Ribas, what we'll never do... – you went putting zero in I don't know what, zero in I don't know how many – we'll never do is use the poor to pull 'political net. Therefore, Mrs Ribas, zero demagogic on this subject, please. [[Greetings and remorse.]] And, Mr. García Albiol, you must understand that there have been many turns of intervention and you have all started, let's say, drinking all the meat, to the graella – yes, Mr. Coscubala, let's still intervene as I seem – but in any case... And, Mr. Albiol, he explained to us the difficulty he had in articulating his intervention on the poor, and it is certain that when one wants to raise as a spokesman a government of the State that has reduced more than 90_percent of state economic resources in social policies in Catalonia, so, yes, it certainly has difficulties, you, for, let's say, set up this intervention. [[Greetings.]] But, listen, to this band... I wanted to start the intervention in another way, really, president, but, go on, truth, let's say they made me..., or they provoked me, anyway – they already know that with me, for that, it costs a little – to start this way. Listen, from all directions, believe me, in this Parliament there is something very funny going on. Look, no one who has preceded me in the word has been able to really recognize, then, honestly, the work done for the government, the performance, let's say, the work done for the government, the good work done in the matter of fighting against the poor, right? To you, the plenary session, let's say, the committee, let's say, let's say, let's say the committee, the headlines, the escorts, the inactivities, the inoperants, the government paralysis in social policy; many times they tell them that where you are, that you are just obsessed, let's say, with the full path of independence. But, listen, there's a curious thing going on: at the time of attribution of merit over the work done by the government, listen, the opposition runs to split up 'lstots, to attribute 'lstos. And I say, go on, if you deserve to assign yourself and split up, then there must be good work done on it and there must be government action, let's just say, implemented successfully, right? Look, the moral superiority in the social camp, I'm the one... that you, let's say, some, are ascribed, so, I don't know, huh? I already take them as a topic, let's just say, of the political practice of this chamber. But, look, in politics, the recognition of work done by others – I will then do it – and humility, I assure you, and you know it, they also bear fruit. We only ask you for a little bit of rigor; we only ask you to recognize it. And Mr. Iceta sojourned – sojourned – has done so. But we only ask them, in any case, that what the government really has been implementing, because people are still at ease, because people are still at ease, man, so, from time to time, they recognize it, right? Because, look, that's denying the job they're running, but wanting to give up all the successes is a good sign of constant contradiction, let's just say, that we're often experimenting in this hemisphere. I really am, huh? , vaja, does a certain grace, in any case, therefore, prove that in this, let's say, contradiction remains clear the good work of the Government. Congratulations, advisors, advisors, president, for the work they do. Look, work and action of government that we will not deny, as I said, that is the fruit, therefore, of the impulse, of the work of government that brings the opposition to an end. Of course, I'd just miss it! It is a right that we have all the deputies, and a duty that we have all the deputies, to listen to me, to do purposeful work, to implement our electoral programs. Of course I do. Listen, but you will also be with me that much of the success is the work of a government that implemented its government plan inspired by an electoral program with which it ran a few elections. Therefore, discovered the contradiction, I regret to say to some that the global advances in these aspects that in social policies and in concrete in this country, let's say it, is produced..., it is not only thanks to some who are patrimonializing or patrimonializing the sector and who feel that they own the common world good, miri, no; it is certainly thanks to a lot of work that we do all folds but that they also obviously do, the entities of the sector. And from the Parliamentary Group of Together for Yes, so, yes, we want to give them thanks; we want to give them thanks for the effort they are making, so, in this matter, and despite, therefore, the crisis that brought us into this situation of vulnerability. So much! Listen, this Ple, in any case, that you are bringing us here today, so it was brought to an end a few days or a long time after you took possession of it. And, therefore, it's what I was saying to them: a little bit of rigour and recognition, isn't it? Mirin, from Junts to Yes, I tell you, we don't feel the only owners of the adventures that have necessarily been implementing from the government. In any case, we feel responsible, yes. But do you know what's going on? That co-responsibility is also a good bait, let's say, in this room. I'll prove it later. Many criticize them for their work of government in social matters, but if you had been for the presuppositional will, let me thus, some, very little work could have been carried out by you. Therefore, I want to remind you that 2017 is not that we can not approve the assumptions, it is that they did not leave us or debate them. And, so, so, you're gonna be with me that, no presuppositions, huh? , or with extended assumptions of 2015, so few approved resolutions could be implemented. But you don't have enough, most of you – most of you, not all of you – so they didn't want to give support to the assumptions of 2017. Therefore, you are only limited to asking the government to act in social matters, but deny them the presuppostarial resources because... well, let's say it, with those who actually, therefore, could implement everything they propose. One more time, incoherence. But above all, I would say that the lack of presuppositional resources is fraught with all the measures that you yourself can propose to the government. Therefore, the denial of approval of these assumptions makes them, now, co-responsible for the non-implementation until and all that you can get to propose. Fortunately, this chamber approved the Bill of Presuppositions Project 2017, without most of the majority, let's say, of you, and varen power – varen power – from the government to implement 87_percent of the measures approved during that monographic plethora. Mrs. Arrimadas, 87_per_cent are implemented or in the process of being implemented. You were talking about 55, you weren't. Listen to me, you know why there's so many that still haven't finished? So, because, it's true, vulnerability is not over. And as much as it has improved, let's say, the situation, I suppose, if in many cases you donate to finish these measures, you will also have a dose of extraordinary criticism, because then you would tell them that why you have finished it. Miri, Constellera Bassa – and now she will remember, you – when she comes to the committee, I always have to say to her the same thing: "For the opposition, bad if they do, bad if they do not, from the government. And obviously, so, we always find ourselves in the same way, don't we? Today we find ourselves before the compliment, therefore, of a young man who does, let's say, the balance of the first year of approval of the resolution, right? , where the government was, forgive me, on own motion. Mrs. Arrimadas and others, today the president and the advisors appear on their own motion, not because no one has forced them to do so. That's it. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's it, and that's how it's registered. Therefore, the very Honourable President, the Honourable Vice-President, the Honourable Councillora de Presidència, the Honourable Councillora de Traballs y Afers Socials... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Man, they're nervous. I listened to them carefully. Come on, come on, let me finish, there's poquet left, escort...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.190.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.191.0	And in any case, they've come forward to assess that of those 270...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.192.0	Quiet, and please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.193.0	Decount me 'ho, huh? [[Pause.]] Therefore, they have appeared to assess that, of those 273 proposals that we will approve and agree, 87_percent of them have been implemented. How I don't have much time and I do want to end one thing... President, counselors, with all the implementation, let's just say, of all the proposals that you have made to us today, let's say that it wasn't the result of cosmic chance, huh? It was the result, therefore, of the will of a government that wants to improve the welfare of its citizens and that complements with an electoral program with which it ran a few elections. The government and the parliamentary group, let's say, we support it. We are firmly committed to working towards what we proposed, which was, as the president said, the creation of a state that returns to Catalans and Catalans, with services and benefits, all that they generate to improve their living conditions. For us, the national and social axes are indivisible, indestriable. We want to improve the living conditions of Catalans and Catalans; we are in conditions of being able to do so from Catalonia, as the very honorable President explained. President, advisors, we encourage you to continue working to make what the citizens of this country have told us, that is to leave Spain's national dependency to improve the social conditions of this country and its people. I count on the firmness and determination of the Joint Parliamentary Group to do so. Neither the fact that they want to infuse some of us, nor the threats, nor the judicialization of politics, with all that this entails, will make us lose the path that together we will draw. They'll keep us on the side, as they do on the side of most of the people of this country, to continue working for the social better of Catalonia. And, listen to me, let me finish quoting Espriu: "We will remain faithful forever more to the service of this people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.194.0	Thank you, Mrs. Figueras. After the intervention of the parliamentary groups, Mrs Neus Munté will respond on behalf of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.195.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. To try to answer the different interventions, first of all, I think there is a difference between what we have come to do as a government and what some of the parliamentary groups have come to do. We have come to explain to us, once more and the times that you need, as we do every time you ask or convoke, and as we do on our own. And most of you have come with the speech made; do not listen and therefore cannot ask us for precise information about a specific question or discuss a given or another, have come with the speech made. The head of the opposition said: "What is the Government of the Generality doing to push through the measures of the resolution? So, all that we've been explaining, Mrs. Upstairs, which in a timely and transparent way we've stuck in the follow-up reports, which we've been explaining to the follow-up committee meetings, and all that we've been explaining and that you certainly haven't listened to. In my previous intervention, I spoke of a standard framework that we have taken forward in the form of laws, such as the Universalization of Health Care Act, such as the Right to Housing Protection Act. I have talked about strategies, comprehensive, interdepartmental plans, which we have explained in your Parliament, which we have shared with social entities, such as the Mental Health Plan and addictions, the program contract with the local world. I have talked about calls, help, concrete programs and tools that allow us to know a little better which is the situation from the social point of view to our home so that we can be much more accurate at the time of designing concrete actions and policies. You also said: "To this day we are talking about people's problems. Oi so much – oi so much. I don't know, but we talk about people's problems every day, and we don't just talk about it, but we have a responsibility to deal with these people's problems. Look, do you know what the reason for some of the people's problems is? So, for example, that Catalonia is the fourth region in wealth creation for people, with GDP per capita, and that after the presuppositional action of the State and the price level becomes the ninth region in income available for families, which means living level and that means people's problems, honourable Member. That we're following the penultimate waste of this outdated and unfair funding model, that also has a lot to do with people's problems. Carry the written speech, huh? , before and not to listen to the door say and say things that have not been said, or to forget, curiously, to what has been said and which surely makes them angry that it has been said or that it has been recognized. In any case, neither the President, nor the Vice President, nor the Lower Councillor, nor myself, we have spoken that Spain is guilty of one thing or another. We have spoken of data certainly and objective; data certainly and objective that you would do well to know and, surely, from its enormous influence on the Government of the State, to attempt to attack flagrant incompliments, debts, fiscal deficit... When we talk about people's concerns, and now I address Mr. García Albiol more concretely, do you know what concerns people a lot? The viability of pensions in Spain is a concern. [[applause]] The practical ills of the Government of the State in relation to pensions, and the speeches of why you generate in relation to pensions in an independent Catalonia. That's what people are worried about. And the price of energy also concerns the economic sector, businesses, for its competitiveness, and also for the impact that this has on family homes, on people. Returning to Ciutadans, I would recommend that you have this great ability to influence that you have the applicator at the time of claiming more resources to the State, resources that we deny, and surely there has been a lost opportunity with the elaboration of the general assumptions of the State. I didn't remind you of those two items that you presented, which later became zero, because they withdrew them. But in any case, you have not made any concrete measure, you have not asked me..., you have not asked me about any measure in concrete, of the many that this resolution contains. So I think we can definitely leave it here. Someone also referred to a supposed speech by the complacent government. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For nothing. This government is very demanding about itself and does all the self-criticism you need. We're very demanding. We would like to have more hours a day, not to say more resources and more facilities, sometimes, here in Parliament, but, in any case, I assure you that, of self-criticism, we do not fail. Who withdrew from the compliment of his obligations to the citizen of Catalonia? Who withdrew from their obligations? The Government of the State has withdrawn, for example in the matter of the Law of Dependency; it has withdrawn, it has withdrawn progressively. And you, Mr. Iceta, have recognized it, you have made reference to it. But we could talk about many other equally sensitive areas: who has withdrawn, who is responsible for chronic underfunding of our health system? , or who has withdrawn respects the special work centres or so many social policies that affect people, and the most vulnerable people? I thought it didn't fit, because we said it, the president said it in his speech, but we absolutely value the task of gatherings, local councils and parliaments in everything you have to do with people's support policies. Miri, in this government, that some of you have accused of being so insensitive and of turning the board into the local world, there are up to three mayors – not two, but three – and four governors and governors. Therefore, I assure you that the work takes place in very hard times – not only now, but many years ago – of gatherings carrying out social policies, and even more so beyond their strict competitions, we have it very present. And this government's relationship, this government's task with the local world is fluid and intense, and that's for the benefit of the city and citizen pool. And it does not relate to the third social sector, to those we work with rapeseed, with powerful instruments, such as the Support Plan for the third social sector, or the collaboration that exists in housing with the cessation of housing for its management. I told Mrs Figueras a while ago when she was talking about zero demagogic, it's obvious: zero cophoism, and in case it hadn't been very clear, that I think it was, zero cophoism, zero appropriation of the work done between all, before and now, and zero demagogic, actually. I say this from the "zero demagogic because Mr.Iceta has surely missed an important fact: in the Tinell pact, Mr.Iceta, there was a redefinition of the minimum income of insertion. And they held your seven years, concretely the departments of Economy and Work, with advisors of the Socialist Party in the lead and at times presuppositions much more placid for the better, for the better of this minimal income of insertion. Now we are making a transit, a strategic and absolutely necessary transit towards the guaranteed income of citizenship, which will be possible, yes, for the work of all, but also for the political will of this Government of Junts for the Yes, at a time, from a presuppositional perspective, much more complex. Rigor when they talk about the briefcase. They know perfectly well that the 177 existing services are being reorganized. This is our compromise. They also know that the bases of the law of personal autonomy were presented, Mrs Ribas, in committee fifteen days ago. Maybe you weren't there and you don't know it, but in any case, these bases were already presented – you don't listen to me, as you didn't listen to me before. The Interdepartmental Committee of the Protocols of Sexual Abuse in Minors: five meetings have been held, it is not finished, it is doing an intense job in this sense. There's been talk of the middle school mensers: as the government, we're giving five thousand help from middle school mensers. The social services function, there is a guarantee of food sufficiency with resources of the Generality, of the joint ventures and of the social entities. Certainly, a school fooder who represents only 10_percent of the apats who have to make a child. I cease to demagogic with such a sensitive question, I ask them, I cease to demagogic with such a sensitive question. In the matter of dependence, beyond infra-financing, beyond the withdrawal of the Government of the State from its obligations, which are marked by law, nine new places have been credited to accommodate users with linked economic benefits. It has entered into force without funding complementary to the 1st degree of dependence, but it has been possible to increase the program contract, and this 2017 will also have an increase of almost 35_million euros in respect. Also new call – I have said before, but very quickly – for 1,500 co-workers with those territories where there is more need for something, it also looks into the territories that are their needs and this is the program, despite this infra-financing for what it does to this law. They know of the will to advance in this definition of the Catalan law, that unlike the current law, the state law, wants to promote prevention and put in value the right to decide for the people for which it does its life plan. On various occasions they have spoken of the degree of failure, say some of you, of the objective resolution of this debate. I have tried to make a parallel between the concrete wording of many of these measures and the degree of compliment, which is important in many areas. The increment of three hundred endowments to improve the seedlings in high complexity centers, one hundred and forty more endowments of teaching staff for inclusive school in the field of teaching and culture; sixteen measures, of which are already in application and seven in progress. There is nothing but a matter of other bodies or a sequence; therefore, they are all working and applying: the help for text books, the experimental pilot platform for specific formatting routes, the fifty-nine units of special educational services, the programme "Apropa culture", which will be deployed in all the equipments of municipalities belonging to the public system of scenic and musical equipments of Catalonia. Also the increase in the supply of Catalonia's Occupational Service, we program orientation, training for young people, people over forty-five years old, with a supply of 53_million euros. Also the increase of resources for the insertion of persons with disabilities into the ordinary enterprise and the protected market, with an important effort, with constant dialogue with the sector. The participation of seventy-thousand young people in the youth guarantee program. And in the field of salvation I have told you about the law that tomorrow morning we can discuss here in Parliament. One of the resolutions marked the implementation of an emergency plan in Catalonia. The National Emergency Plan has been introduced, which will define the maximum time a user can physically be in hospital emergencies; the bases are being defined and we are working intensively. Also for what it does to the decrease of the waiting lists. The resolution also said: approval of the Pla de salut; approval of the Pla de salut de Catalunya 2016-2020. The integration of the health service into the social services to enhance personal autonomy and attention to dependence; this is the PIAISS, the integration of the PIAISS, an advance to the level of priority also of integrated, social and health care. The reinforcement of the integral plan of mental salvation, literal: resolution of the debate that took place more than a year ago in Parliament. We approved the Comprehensive Care Plan for people with mental disorders and additions, a presentation that we made in the case of the Palau de la Généralita, with the president's presidency. And we are working on other important plans, such as the National Health Education and Promotion Plan, interdepartmental public health and the balance of the previous plan. In the regularization of foreigners there was a measure, which called for the abolition of taxes on the preparation of foreign reports. It is a fact that these taxes have been abolished, precisely to facilitate the processing of these reports to people in a situation of greater vulnerability, obviously in compliment to this parliamentary resolution. Before that: refugees, a country priority, a government priority, a society priority that also had its translation into the resolutions of that monogram. We have approved the Catalan refugee platform, which is a pioneer in Europe, more than 1,200 places with different types of housing resources have been invented and the availability of Catalonia to gather 4,500 refugees, before the dramatic situation of thousands and thousands of people, as a result of the humanitarian crisis, the inaction of the states – before I mentioned it – and also respond to the accredited will of the Catalan society, the expertise and knowledge of reference entities and a citizen mobilization that has been referring to all of Europe. Also, the resolution sent us complaints to the Government of the State, of resources, precisely, to meet needs that require the finances of the Generality and to preserve the state of welfare. We've done it, we're still doing it. We have maintained the salaries of public administration workers, we have maintained the policy of not selling any securities linked to public undertakings or to making new sales of real estate assets, as this very resolution that we are now making the compliment of. And from here, point out that all these measures that we are detailing, and more than we would like to do, and with more celerity, and bring here a degree of compliment, not of 83_per_cent, not of 78_per_cent, but of 100_per_cent, we cannot do it this way and with this celerity, taking into account the block insisting on what we find, with so many and so many policies that are closed for people's day to day. There is a state in the other band that does not help us people in the struggle against the poor, which has left to zero many social policies, many presuppositional parties destined for social policies. As the president said before, it's not an opinion, it's facts, it's facts. Despite these difficulties – despite these difficulties – the collaboration of all, of the local world, of the social entities, of the private initiative, the task of impulses that this Parliament realizes, lead us to be able to present that a degree of compliment that is satisfactory, not cofoist, is satisfactory, because we can believe the adventures that have occurred in many areas, and above all we can believe, and they are also objective and verifiable facts, the priority of a presuppositional perspective. Pressupost, included in the plan of government, ultimately prioritized all those actions that they have to see with people. The government is not alone in the struggle for social justice and against the poor, just as the local world is not alone, social entities are not alone. We work hand in hand, we fold, we do it many years ago and we know that this is a winning combination. As I said before: while there are still very high taxes of the poor, I would like to remind you that they were in time of economic goodness, they were very high, but while there are these taxes we will continue to roam to have a good welfare state, to have resources that we do not have at present, which we do not have at present, to avoid the constant blockade in which, for example, we are affected when you read in this Parliament, sometimes by a very large majority, sometimes without a vote against, but which are then blocked by the State, it is obvious that we believe from the government, and we are not convinced, that we are working – this is our compromise – in order to be able to have a good state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.196.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Munté. Then there's the word "Mrs. Noemí de la Calle" from the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.197.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. More than a year ago, a plenary session was held at which measures were adopted. [[remorse of the voice]] to try to alleviate the suffering of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.198.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.199.0	...the worst ones were going through, and do you know how much of the approved has been accomplished? Less than half. And do you know who they've sided with? Well, people who were having trouble accessing a home, because they are not investing what is needed to meet all the needs that exist. Not even the least that our own laws, with which this Parliament has been endowed, dictate. If such work had been done in the area of housing, there would be no need for an anti-discharge law. It has also left aside the self-employed, who have suffered a great deal; they have suffered a great deal in this crisis, who are the ones who give employment to one of the four salaried workers, who many have had to lower the blind, for in this crisis, dragging their whole family into poverty, and who still have no direct contact with the Government. At the two follow-up meetings that took place in 2016, the excuse for not meeting the measures was that there was no budget, that we were in budget extension, but when we told them that in budget extension transfers could be made between departments and between items we were told that no, that could not be done. But they did transfer money for things that interest them, such as, for example, to feed the IT bubble of the CTTI, which already had 370_million budgeted and took 23_million from the debt section to transfer them to this IT bubble. We understand that, well, for this, these transfers can be made, but for dining grants or for dependence they could not be made. To solve the social emergency everything has been excused after excuse. They say that more than 80_per_cent of the measures are under way or are being implemented, but it is that anyone who reads this report with a little bit of attention will observe that this statement, because, it is not true, is a takeover of hair, as we have already stated on other occasions. We have analysed the report and the accounts do not come out. Only 45_per_cent of the measurements are being applied, and ‘pichis-pichis, in that way. You asked for rigor, but this report does not. This is more than a non-compliance report. Because, really, the measures are not being implemented. You don't like to work; that's right, performances are very good; riding numbers is your specialty. At the last meeting we had in 2017l, they delayed the start of that meeting for several hours because they had to read a separatist manifesto, another of their performances, just a few meters from where they had to be at that time giving explanations of the implementation of these measures, not only to parliamentary groups but to social entities. And that is a lack of respect; it is a lack of respect and disregard for the people who suffer the most and those who needed the most protection at the time of the Administration. And so they demonstrated and demonstrate their priorities day by day. In the intervention of the president we have heard zero self-criticism, everything they do very well, and then, why have the data worsened? The answer has been, as always, that of the fiscal deficit, 'Spain takes our money, but that is the archetypal answer of 'Spain steals from us. But you know what? That the inventors of « Spain steal us are from his party and right now we have them sitting on the bench of the accused precisely for that reason, for stealing. Who really steals Catalans? Who's taking the money? Who? Mrs. Figueras, we understand that you have a very difficult role because you have to defend the Government, but that does not prevent you from listening. Mrs Inés Arrimadas spoke of conciliation, of job insecurity, of our motion to combat female poverty, of our law to improve waiting lists in dependence, and of our law also to extend paternity leave. I don't think you understood very well what today's plenary was about. It was for the Government to come and explain why it had not done what it should be doing, not for parliamentary groups to present measures that had already been put forward. That is, the opposition has already done its job; now it is up to the Government to work a little bit. Mrs Munté, the budgets of Spain, Citizens have achieved an extra increase of almost 1,100_million_euro for Catalonia, which are going to go to health care, which are going to go to education, which are going to go to social services. We did not need to make amendments because those budget lines, that funding for Catalonia, were already in the budgets. And you, of course, don't get anything, but it's maybe because you're in the Joint Group, there in the henhouse, and that's why you don't find out, right? , of what citizens do in Congress. [[Greetings.]] You only work for your secessionist adventure, but luckily there are others who do want to work and we are doing it. Citizens are the parliamentary group that has put forward the most social proposals in this legislature, and we hope that autonomous elections will be convened as soon as possible to give way to a government that does work for all Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.200.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. The words of Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.201.0	Thank you, President. President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members, we have witnessed the expected exercise of the Government of Parliamentary Anesthesiology for overdosing information with the hope of justifying the unjustifiable. Confess the abundance with the quality of the actions. For you, this is just a parliamentary process. They have been more concerned to fill the content of the report of the plenary of the poor than to make effective the actions it contemplates. Mrs. Munté, I'll tell you concrete facts. Since 2016, studying the implementation of a report on the situation of social services with professionals, fifteen months later they continue to study. Carry from the April of the past year processing the decree of the solid foundation of basic sub-administrations, fourteen_months later remain the same. They are unable to sign an agreement with electricity for the payment of bills. In a year or so, they have doubled the number of families that grapple with waiting lists for social housing, there are 750 families waiting today. During the year 2016 they committed themselves to increasing the number of places of reception centers for victims of male violence; Mr. President, here you have demonstrated the efforts of your Government, four nine places – four nine places – plus in one year. They wear a student year the creation of scholarship lines for students in vocational training and a year later they continue to study; at this rate they will have finished the students of vocational training and you will not have done the dues. In one year they bring a student that the SOC can make a training offer for people with disabilities; fifteen months later we have nothing. You were to constitute the Autonomous Work Council of Catalonia and you say it is a measure in progress in your report, but this council has not yet been formed. Since May 2016, students have been included in the basic public health portfolio for the underage dental services, hearing aids and eyes; at hours of the day, nothing. And they still have the bar to say that they're applying the map of social services in Catalonia. What map? The one presented by Mrs. Munté in July of 2014? What did the Low Counselor tell us that she would do electronically? How does a performance map apply? You say it's in progress. I suppose I don't remember, like the president of my group, who have been unable to do – because I think they don't have the will to do it – to deploy the Law of Rights and Opportunities of Childhood: seven years after their approval, three decrees. They are two years old without bringing together the Law of Dependency Follow-up Commission while their government has placed us in the second place of the state race in time of waiting for a dependency benefit. Certainly, Mrs. Munté, in relation to the PIRMI, I remind you that in the pact of the Tinell Esquerra Republicana there was. Certainly, there is still no agreement today on the guaranteed income of citizenship; we are close to it and I hope that it will be soon, because the groups have had to paralyze the government's latest proposal, which was that between the time the person makes the request until the guaranteed income of citizenship can pass eight months, with silent administration denied. This is the urgency shown by the Government, not only in the Social Emergencies Pleth but also in the measures it wants to take in this Parliament. Mrs. Figueras, your massage intervention... now I don't see you here, Mrs. Figueras, but your massage intervention... [[Funnel veils]] – thank you – you have confided very much. Look, you didn't talk about the poor, you did this intervention to try to defend the government before a report that everyone doesn't complete the agreements they made. You can continue to make the documents of follow-up of the plenary of the poor, filling in boxes with the actions that make them sleep quiet, but that do not correspond with reality, nor are they just able to update them as lime. Another example, before the measure to avoid the marginality of protected habitats you say is ongoing, but with the difficulties, because the assumptions are not approved. That's what the document says, huh? The document says the assumptions haven't been approved yet. Therefore, the validity of this report and therefore this 85_percent of the compliment of your measurements, man, if one does a detailed reading of the document will see that it is false and that it is lied; there is no 85_percent of approved measures. I'm done. His government saw it in a parallel reality. The social services continue to collapsate; the assembly centres are overcrowded, children sleeping in the past and multi-purpose rooms that are converted into improvised dormitories; the professional ratios are not complete; the minor unaccompanied continue to snorkel in the streets of Barcelona; the large people continue to have problems accessing a residence and the disabled workers are victims of subsidizing their minimum wage which contradicts what Parliament approves earlier. I'm done. You said it tomorrow, and I don't know if you know what's going on. Miri, in the city of Santa Coloma you said they were days of denunciation – the Tuesdays and you said them. Tomorrow they will end up in Barcelona's Metropolitan Area, probably fifty denunciations, and the Generality is neither there nor expected. There will be gatherings, there will be professionals, but you, on this subject, which is a major issue in relation to social emergence, they are not, they have never been. Ladies and gentlemen, the worst thing you can do is not complete the agreements of the plenary of the poor, among other things, not so much for respect for this chamber, but because you, doing so, are chronifying the poor in Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.202.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Next is the words of Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.203.0	Thank you, President. Look, to clarify a concept, to begin with, it is certain that administratively the Government appears on its own petition – it is true –, on its own petition reddened. The petition itself completes a resolution of Catalonia Yes, it may be that it forced that at the end of two months, maximum, it is come to give this compliment. The Plea a year ago and three months ago it was produced, because we asked for two opposition groups, and the follow-up of the compliment in a periodical way is because there was a resolution that we presented and that I wrote myself. When there was priority on the part of the Government, which is what « alletjaja..., when there was priority on the part of the Government to finish a topic, it is known – it is known. Actually, you, when you have the initiative on a subject, are known. At the very least, they put in excessive presses, on a lot of the issues. In this, in the Social Emergencies, there is a mass that is not his priority. It is noted from the first day of government, and continues to note when these types of compliments of the Social Emergence Plea are made, because it is impossible to create 'nsaquest 87_per_cent compliment. And I went to a concrete proposal, Mrs. Munté. In their own report, July, which they present, put it with impact indicators, with accurate and accurate information and with rigour, please. It is that we would stop believing it, if not, because every time we have one of these reports, the questions of manifesting themselves as, for example, they are repeatedly telling us that they are in this 87_percent compliment, that they are making more of the tax figures that already exist, such as estates, assets, IRPF or that are laying down them. Listen, four times they put him to the vote, and they don't want to! Or they pose us that it is in this 87_per_cent compliment the topic of basic income. They say they're doing a basic income study between equals in the mark of guaranteed income ponència. Look, I'm a part of this. There's been no talk about this for nothing. No, no, Clearly, we can't believe it, when we have these data in the compliment report or when they give to supplement a social progress report with notes that the Economics Department didn't serve for anything. No, no, Therefore, please, set them strict, set them accurate, accurate, and set them impact indicators. And I'm doing another petition... and here with innocence, huh? Absolutely, because they certainly won't complement it. But I think it's days like today that we don't just have to complete what we approved a year ago and three months ago, but that we're updating on the new realities of social emergence that we have. Now what's going on is that people can't pay the piss for the bottle of llogers. Take measures in this direction, put them directly, that we will not force it from the opposition. What's happening today is that there are poor workers and poor workers. We're taking measures in this sense, which we're not going to force from the opposition, are we? And one last thought, too, if I may, and here I will not do it with my own words, but I will take the words of others to tell them what I believe are our dues today in this Ple, which is to make a compliment..., to make an assessment of this report of compliment and of this appearance that you came to do here. We have told them insufficiently. I am now telling you with words from others, with words from the Poor Zero platform, at the middle of the Social Emergence Plenary, that they are saying to them: "Translation to practice is very slow and disappointing. The response by the Catalan Government to the needs of the most vulnerable population has not improved substantially and urgent measures that have been in place for many years are still pending. And today... – today, that was a half-year ago – and today, the Third Sector Table brings us to all the Members and Members of this House also their appreciation: "It is true that work has been done, it is true that there has been an important initial impulse, but today we have seen a great decrease in this good march in the later months. We regret not being able to see new information, concrete actions, evaluations or new actions in many of the measures of this resolution, the resolution of the Emergence Pleth of a year and three months ago. Yes, a note to the compliment by the Government of that resolution of the Social Emergencies Plenary, of urgent measures to respond to the Social Emergencies, must be put forward today. And the note is insufficient, not only that they have not been made, but also the information they provide us with. And the sadness of this isn't that we're pulling ourselves together, is it? The sad thing about this is that the failure of these measures affects a citizenry that is going through a lot and a lot badly, and that has an index of poverty that is not reduced in the percentages that should have been reduced, but that, besides, the people who are poor every time are the most. And that's not what they told us with the initial data, president. I would say, to Mr Junqueras, that he is not here but he can be translated, that yes, he pushes the GDP, but, as he said before, the cruelty and the hardship of the poor that we have in our country increases much more. At the same levels as GDP, the harshness and cruelty of the poor that we have in our country is increasing. So we're talking about people and we're talking about very difficult circumstances when we're talking about these questions about what we talked about today in this House. Please, rigor, rigor, and seriousness. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.204.0	Thank you, Mrs. Ribas. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.205.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable President, today we have had a great disappointment, President. In previous interventions, you had looked at the hispanophobia and independence by the end. In other parts of the poor he had left it for his final intervention, but today he went directly from the principle, he did not feel this modesty. And I... listening to him, I seemed to feel Umberto Bossi. Actually, mirin, this sign... [[the orator shows a folder to the camera]] When he felt it, I came to this sign. Yeah. Do they remember that half-hour of the eggs and chickens of Councillor Homs? So, miri, it looks like the Northern Lliga is going to make one of them look very similar. Because that's the kind of speech you made, counselor. And in a debate... – and president –, in a debate of solidarity, of social justice, he talks about fiscal selfishness, he talks about putting ourselves on the border with solidarity. Do you want us to bring internal tax balances to Catalonia? Do you want us to talk about the spoli that we pat the barcelons, far superior to what you say that it pats Catalonia with the rest of Spain? Do you want us to talk about all this? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, don't give me any time and I'll do it. [[Rialles.]] Jo, sometimes... [[Greetings.]] I, sometimes, think, ladies and gentlemen, that if you did not exist the People's Party would have to invent it. [[Rialles.]] What would they do without us? What would they talk about? How would they justify their failures? How would they store their incompetences? And I think on the left, too. If it weren't for the demonization of the PP, how would we explain that when you ruled Catalonia and Spain the poverty rate was 20_percent structural in a period of economic good and prosperity? [[Greetings.]] If it wasn't for a conflict fuelled every day through propaganda, as you would explain to us – that you have ruled forty years Catalonia, that you have agreed, as you have said before, all the financing systems of Catalonia – that our land is indebted to those, frozen to taxes, held by bureaucracy, strongly tense and without any other direction beyond a sad shock? How would they explain it to us, if it wasn't with this constant propaganda and the criminalization of the PP and the state government? But don't you see that the conflict, President, is a cremated land that brings nothing good to Catalonia? Can you imagine – and I told you the other day – where we could get if we dedicated half the time, energies, words, tertules, debates, conflicts, barricades for the process, enough economic growth and fighting against exclusion and poverty? Can I imagine? I do not say that nothing has been done, but they have done things; among other things, because the Parliament – because the Parliament – marked them a full course very clearly. But there are many families who expect much more than you. Wait, to begin with, a measure solo; I told my group president: « A measure solo in five years to promote economic growth and recovery in Catalonia. It's that you are a politically-appeared government, because you live from the reforms that the central government has made while you don't do anything at all. [[Some applause.]] And it is true, we need to consolidate the gasoline of recovery and economic growth, but we also need to strengthen the support networks, the promotion networks, the justice, solidarity and redistribution networks. We need to strengthen public services and strengthen the third sector with a new social policy from the perspective of subsidiarity and the leadership of civil society. We must guarantee equal opportunities and we must guarantee growth and an inclusive society. And how's that? It's not easy, president – it's not easy – but if we're talking about the process all day, then we can't talk about it. We must achieve inclusiveness in the proceedings, inclusiveness in the results, respecting freedom. And this is a dilemma, and it's a great challenge that's not easy to square and that we should spend most of the time on. You have referred to habitating, and would like to talk about a moment of habitating, of right to habitating, to see when the Catalan tax of heritage successions of habitating, of heritage transmissions of habitating can be lowered once again, because young people and middle classes can buy a pea, because with an 11_per_cent is very difficult. And that makes it hard for many people to buy a pee. On the subject of poor energy and anti-denomination laws, the Catalan People's Party is where it was at its time and where it voted at its time. And we're asking them to vacate the joint committee, the bilateral committee, to negotiate with the state to agree on a correct interpretation to avoid challenging this law. Indeed, it has nuances: depending on how it looks, it can be seen in one way or another. We're asking them to get involved in the negotiation. And the Catalan PP is where he was and where he voted. I'm done, President. Citizenship has many questions, and it also wants some dates and not just the reference. Will Munté advise, when will they explain to us the structural deficiencies of pensions in cases of independence? And if you have any doubts, talk to us. We've made some documents and a very clear campaign explaining the reality of pensions. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.206.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.207.0	Consellera Bassa... – Consellera Bassa –, when will it update, at a time, the portfolio of services? We want a date. That's the question: when will we get the date? Consellera Bassa, when are the special work centres brought out of distress? Consellera Ruiz, when will the compacted papers that have done so badly to many teenagers be reversed? Counselor Borrás, when will they sign agreements with electricity? Why haven't they signed yet? Tell us! Yeah, but you always talk about it, that's what. Tell us clearly why they don't sign it. And, President, when we leave this toxin of the process to dedicate ourselves... [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , big debates and big reptes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.208.0	Mr. Sanchez...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.209.0	...of our time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.210.0	He knows it's been a long time. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.211.0	I'll try to go fast, because I want to say more things than I suppose I can say. Vice President Munté, thank you for saying that the government we have is very demanding with itself... – it is very demanding in itself. I feel more like staying with this appreciation than not with my friend Anna's disgust... – where are you, Anna? He left – de l'Anna..., that we don't have to aggravate..., I don't think we have to aggravate anything. Recognise work, recognize the work we all do, because we have come to this Ple not only by government effort, but by effort and by the work of very many people. Therefore, it is better for us to keep the proposal, with the assertion that Vice President Munté did say that the government is very demanding with itself. I mean, this government is stuck for a lot of cantons. He is trapped by a problem of lack of time, he is trapped because there is indisputably an attack from the State, a permanent attack, so much from the point of view financing with legal, as political, and indisputably that all these attacks that we receive from the State are related in much part – not only, but largely – with our option to independence, etc. Now, there's one thing that seemed like we all agreed, and it's that the poor, the causes of the poor are structural. But one time we said this, which I said to the lady... the spokesman for the opposition, from Ciutadans, we need to take a step further. If they're structural problems and, besides, they come from far away, it means we have to question the system. And you know that... the government knows that, because they spent as many hours as we did arguing with us, huh? And throughout the discussion of our assumptions we posed on the table precisely as. And we did a great job, and we didn't accept anything; a great job of saying how with the same financial availability the government has we can do different things: we can improve on tax policy if we increase taxes; we can make priority with redistribution, redirecting funds we have; we can rescue outsourced services; we can change the concertation model; we can refer to the product fabric; we can refer to, after all, the product fabric at the agricultural level with the land bank. We gave concrete measures to fight corruption, we made a series of proposals precisely why? Because we understand that the problem is structural and systemic. And while our correlation of forces is not enough to pull this system down – which we expect and want to go better with the republic – we need to see how things can be done better with what is already there. And we were the only political group we did at that level. I have to admit that Ciutadans made an effort – everything is said, you know, not at the level we did the CUP - Constituent Cry. But no, you didn't; you didn't want to adopt the tax rules, our instruments. You, President, spoke of instruments, tools; yes, we put tools on the table. And why? Because we've met and met with the same: we can talk about whether we agree that it's a crisis, it's a structural problem, but when we say, "Let's keep going, let's go question the system and, therefore, let's go question everything that's related to neoliberal policies and the impositions of neoliberal policies and media, here's where we meet with a wall that doesn't get through it, right? I hope..., let's hope – and let's hope very sincerely – that, after this tangle, this tangle of saying..., and, therefore, of moving forward in our way – I will say it in low view because there is Mrs. Arrimadas – [[the speaker lowers the tone of view]] the reference and the head of independence [[relays]] And, therefore, in the construction of the republic, that we can take these things away, because since they are smaller, since they are a more enhospitable country, since they are a much more clean country, all of us can really get in to question not only to recognize that it is a structural problem, but to really question the harder, stronger bases of a system than if it is unjust. We'll wait for them there. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.212.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. The words of Ms. Anna Figueras, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.213.0	Well, thank you, President. Mirin, start by addressing Mrs. De la Calle, Mr. Moreno, Mr. Ribas and Mr. Sánchez Costa. I'm sorry, huh? , after this attack of oral bile, let's say, of bitterness, of growing, of excessive social apocalypse, I must remind you, even though the hard sapiga, that the government devotes more than 70_percent of the Generality's assumption to social policies, is to say, to attend to the people. I the other 30_per_cent, which does not dedicate to social policies, which dedicates to territorial politics..., is also destined for people. So, even though I know some of them hard – I don't know, Mr. Moreno, today, I don't know what was good for him – so, yes, I'm listening, we're all going to devote it to people. People are listening, even though you didn't seem to be. But anyway, we're still going. I only..., I have not done it before – it is true, I have not done it before – and now I would like to detail three aspects in which you have constantly, constantly, say to us, appearance re-appearance, commission re-commission, which are the feeding alleys, guaranteed income and dependence. What's the compliment... anyway, that... by the way, huh? I shoot... I don't know, ask them to keep an eye on you... listen, for seven consecutive times they've been reporting, but I don't know if they're looking at each other. I, in any case, will return to what the government says it has done. As far as beakers are concerned... - even though he knows them hard, huh? – the resources for the 2016-2017 course have increased for fooder scholarships. Moreover, criteria have been updated for obtaining fooder scholarships in two aspects: the elimination of the flexible tram, and the poverty risk shield in place of the IRSC has been referred to. When changing the handles, the number of handles that cover 50_percent of the cost of the feeder and also the number of handles that cover 100_per_cent have increased. They solved the requests for scholarships, and, moreover, explain to them, therefore, that during, let's say, the whole course went resting and attending all those resources, eh? They've been able to get out. For another song, guaranteed income. Before we told them: "I'm escorting, we're on the final tram, politically, I forgive, parliamentaryly speaking. Mrs Ribas, you may not have been able to be there, but listen to me, go, deny... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah; no, listen'm, deny... yeah, yeah, I was there four years ago, too, you know? To deny in any case the ingenious effort that the government has made trying to negotiate with, obviously, the ILP's drivers, with all the parliamentary groups, they have proposed to them re-proposal... – you may not have been there, but listen to me, I have experienced it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Anyway, I think I'm denying this today, I don't know if, as I said before, it's not demagogic. In any case, zero demagogic on this subject. And, listen to me, surely – surely – I don't want to deny merit to anyone and guaranteed income is worth a lot of people. Of course, from the committee that promotes it; of course, from all the parliamentary groups that have made quite a few points. The legislatures have come to an end, let us say, but the ILP was still alive; for this, surely, we have done so many years. But, listen, in any case, I thank them – I am very grateful, Gabriela – for the work done in all the folds, but let me say that today I thank the deputy, the company, the friend Chakir the Homrani for his dedication, for his perseverance, for his efforts. [[applause]] And because you've really done a lot of good work, we're happy. I, I'm escorting myself, to end. In matters of dependence, the motion in concrete terms called for the increase of residence places with public finance, the growth of home care services and the growth of the number of related economic services. In terms of dependency, listen to me, what's not too much of a waste is the commission to retake the commission of Social Afers you do the letter to the King. Ask for residential places and residences for any, let's say, people... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, look, they're experts. Miri's as good as he's been. We ask for rigor. They will not be more credible to promise residential places in every municipality knowing that they are not supposed, and that, therefore,..., escort, touch from few to the ground. The government has already told you. A total of 3,604 ENPs, 900 new seats and an action plan have been made available to create 1,500 new collaborative residence places. Pewter's tuft on the ground. And Mr. Fernández Costa, forgive me, Mr. Fernando Sánchez Costa, you said on March 9th: "I think that the deputies of this chamber are aware of the situation of difficulty, of the emergence of many people. Today's plethora is a very interesting occasion to lower the walls of this chamber. We need to lower the walls so that we get the striking remorse of the anguish of so many people. Mr Sánchez Costa, I would urge you to help us lower the walls of Moncloa and explain them to the Spanish State that every time they violate the Law of Dependence or every time they go through the Law of Housing Emergencies and Poor Energetic are not listening to the remorse of the distressing distress of many people, they are annoying it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.214.0	Thank you, Mrs. Figueras. Once this debate is over, let's get to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposal for an urgent amendment law on the text recast of the municipal law of Catalonia in the matter of protection of municipalities (debate of totality)]] [[202-00060/11]] The next item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposal for an urgent amendment to the recast text of the Municipal Law of Catalonia in the area of municipal protection. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed, Mr. Joan Garriga. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we must continue with the next point of the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.215.0	Shall I start?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.216.0	No, Congressman, don't start, 'cause there's enough sound still. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.217.0	Well, if that's the case, president...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.218.0	Right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.219.0	Thank you. MPs, MPs, the position of the CUP - Constituent Creed is well known. We are betting for policies of remunicipalization from a municipalism that has to regain the ability to influence the transformation of the model of production, labor and also of service management. We defend the municipalization of the services, the public management of these services as a guarantee of precisely ensuring these services, which are public, universal and of quality. We want popular control of the management of public services, participate in decision making and exercise direct control over the price, investments, maintenance of the network, etc., as some are basic and essential to have a life worthy, for example, water. As water is a common good and has been declared a human right indispensable for life, the lack of economic resources of the families of the popular classes should not be motivating the kind of sub-administration. This will only be possible, we believe, with a public and direct management in place of a profit-based management, economic gains, and it is totally transferable to the rest of public municipal services. We have to know what we spend on administration and how we spend it. That's why we bet, precisely, on a direct municipal management, that it's the way, we believe, more secure and transparent to provide a public service. And we have a duty to do so by seeking the best working conditions for all workers of these services, who maintain these public services. And we have to do it, we believe, under criteria of ecological sustainability. The management of public services must take account of the health of ecosystems. Since the CUP - Creed We think that we can preserve basic rights and serve essential for life and keep them off the market. The gatherings, as the instrument closest to the citizenry and the people, must have – we believe and think – a direct control of the resources that are basic in order to guarantee a dignified life. It does not escape anyone, however, that one of the reasons that motivated the presentation of this proposal for an urgent amendment of the text of the Catalan Municipal Law in the matter of protection of municipalities was the central government's claim to introduce in the draft general assumptions of the State we obstacles to the municipalities of public services on behalf of the currently outsourced joints. Some general assumptions that under a presumptive measure in the matter of personnel that we believe is an intolerable interference with local autonomy and steals together the ability to choose the model of management that they believe should have public services. At its twenty-seven additional arrangement it is established that the public administration may incorporate as public employment the workers of the concession contracts of works or services when the contracts are extinguished for their compliment, for their resolution, including rescue, or if the secret or intervention of the service is adopted. This restriction will also apply to workers working for public companies, public foundations, consortia or other types of companies integrated into the Administration. The provision also provides that in those cases in which in the compliment of a judicial or pre-trial judgement of a procedure in which the principles of equality are guaranteed, private contract workers who are incorporated in the Administration are entitled and qualified to be accounted for as staff newly added to the amount of the restorative fee, subject to the limits laid down by the State General Presumables Act. It is true that it approved a transactional issue that has been incorporated into the assumptions. According to the new wording, these types of incorporations are not accounted for as new input staff of the repositioning rate. Two limitations on the temporary contract of staff also disappear. For one band, the limitation of the duration of the contracts concerned to the Administration to a maximum of three years is eliminated; and for the other side, the restriction of its contract to sectors, functions and professional categories which are considered to be priorities or affecting the functioning of essential public services is eliminated. In short, it supposes to expand the possibilities of temporary contractation. This affects all public administration, local government, trading companies, consortia and foundations. We must note that this improvement, which improves the situation, is in keeping with the initial drafting in the case of the staff, and is being incorporated into public companies. This is supposed to be the practice, we think, and it makes it easy for the form of direct management to continue to mediate a commercial society, which is one of the assumptions of direct management, but not precisely the most guarantor, in not fully governing the public right. Despite the improvement observed, the truth is that the will of the People's Party government to hinder the process of remunicipalization continues to present both in the additional arrangement twenty-seven of the assumptions as in the constant attacks on local autonomy and the obligations imposed on the joints tend to privatize their functions and to be required financiers of private negotiations and banks, and to refocus the competitions always in Spanish clau. That is to say, we think that there is a clear offensive against the municipalization of public services, a more attempt to shield and maintain the privileges of the contracts of the big companies, which accumulate the majority of externalizations, which, we think, could pose again to the people's service. Assuming that direct management services on the part of the joints are essentially more assured, it is true that initiating municipalization processes is costly, even in some cases in economic terms. Sometimes, this complex door that many of the gatherings, huh? I'm giving up shooting these lawsuits. But every time – by luck, we believe – there are more gatherings than in an exercise of sovereignty starting and developing processes of recovery of services such as water, cleanness, waste collection, public transport, etc. Each time there are more gatherings with a clear will to promote and collaborate in processes of internalization of public services, all providing resources and knowledge so that these processes are economically viable and socially involved. Municipality as a key process to guarantee full rights to the citizenry, not to make the services of the free market depend, and to advance in us marks of control and venous participation respect the public services and common goods. Several and notable are the joint ventures that have established between their political priorities to engage in service delivery internalization processes and activities that are currently outsourced under different contractual formulas. Internalization processes such as the case of Navàs and Capellades with the service of neteja, Artés with the service of gardening, Barberà with water; marching processes for the public management of water to Badalona, Cerdanyola del Vallès, Sabadell, Santa Coloma de Gramenet, Terrassa and Barcelona and the Prat de Llobregat ; remunicipalization processes carried out at Arenys de Munt and Castelldefels and many other municipalities of the country, such as in the collection of outlets, a succulent business, certainly, by large service companies, today in few hands and under suspicion of fraud. Willingness, therefore, of the municipalities, which now have to assume the role of internalisations and municipalities and which must be accompanied by joint work that brings legal, economic and technical knowledge that makes them possible and viable. A common area of analysis and solution of the problems inherent in the entire return process to the internal management of services that are currently executed for the private sector. And this process, in which different and remarkable assemblies are involved, and in which all the assemblies, we think, have right, does not count on due legal protection on the part of the norms dictated by the General Courts. Moreover, legislative proposals in progress at these times show a clear willingness of these institutions to continue to protect the accumulation of public resources by virtue of the fact that it is occurring in relation to public resources on the part of these few companies that share the pasty of today's day in the performance of public services. The time and time for what he does to public service is dark and black, according to our opinion, and we have the political obligation to make an advance. To the point of signing the TTIP and the Tisa on behalf of the European Union, both treaties have very hard implications on public services. Thus, both free trade agreements establish mechanisms to enable private capital to enter into the management of public services. A first, deregulatory or regulatory equalization to the downside of European legislation and the United States. One_second, by predicting that all new services or a part of the service that we may not be able to manage externally..., you have to exit to public contract to be managed for a different, precisely, from public administration. And a third, to include an irrevocable clause according to which once a service is privatized it will hardly be able to return to public hands. Therefore, we must bet to eliminate all the passages that prevent the remunicipalization of the services and the local public service, the privatization policies and the dark service contracts that, we think, are the real cause of a lot of municipal debt; to denounce the expense relief, and to repeal the false rationalisation measures, which have in fact only served to deal with municipal services and to favour large private enterprises. It is from this perspective that we understand the presentation of this law proposal to be valid, not so much in the line of opposing the disposition made in the general assumptions of the State against remunitations, but also in favor of the will of this law proposal, that it is nothing other than protecting the remunitization processes and, above all, giving protection to workers and workers of enterprises and precisely serving objects of this remunitation, in order to ensure, in any case, the subrogation of these in the new public sector or in the administration that directly manages the service. I would not have felt that what is foreseen for the success of private actors is not possible when the new operator has public nature. Therefore, present, we ask for support for this proposal of the law. Welcome the contributions, that the remunicipalizations and the quality of our public services ask us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.220.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Then, to defend the emena presented for the Popular Party, has the word Mr.Sergio Santamaría.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.221.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, the CUP brings us to the Chamber a raquitic proposal for an urgent amendment of the consolidated text of the Municipal Law of Catalonia on the protection of municipalities – difficult term, this. That's what they call it – that's what they call it – isn't it? , and consists of adding a single article, with the following wording: "Public workers shall be deemed to be public workers and may be incorporated in this condition into a local public administration or a public-law entity dependent on the workers of the contractors for the concessions of works, public services or any other contract awarded by a public administration when the contracts are extinguished by their performance, by their resolution, including the rescue, or if the abduction or intervention of the service is adopted in accordance with the law of public-sector contracts which results from application........................................................................................................................................................................................................ And then they add as a final provision their consequent budgetary allocation. Well, his statement of reasons, of pilgrim motives, covers the true intentions of this proposal, which is nothing other than the nationalization of economic activity in the field of administration and public-private collaboration in the provision of public services. It is so much – and this is important that they also take it into account – as an amendment to the Public Sector Contracts Act as a whole; they propose little less than its repeal. And it is that otherwise one cannot understand the introduction of a solitary article that is presented to give the consideration of public workers to those who have contracts of employment with private companies that in turn contract with the Administration, in this case the Local Administration, the Municipal Administration. Look, I must say to you, with all due respect: it is a genuine legal barbarity. That is true, it is a genuine legal gap, because it eliminates the principle of merit and capacity in access to public service from a pen. I don't know if they've noticed in detail. It is a principle of merit and capacity that is enshrined as a fundamental right, nothing more and nothing less, in article 23.2 of the Spanish Constitution. I understand this mention to you, well, it's bad for you, isn't it? Citizens have the right to equal access to public functions and positions with the requirements laid down by law. And precisely this principle, this fundamental postulate, this right which is important and has the constitutional protection which is recognized and granted to it, is closely related to the provisions of Article 103(3) of the Constitution, which provides that the law shall regulate the status of public officials in accordance with the principles of merit and capacity, the peculiarities of the exercise of their right to trade union, the system of incompatibility and guarantees of impartiality in the exercise of their functions. Look, it is no more or less a matter of fulfilling the constitutional mandate that the public administration serves – or serves, in this case – objectively the general interests with full compliance with the law and the law. Good. This could end the defence of our amendment as a whole, from a strictly legal point of view. And if you, a member of the CUP who defends this proposal for a law, are in a position to refute it, you will have the opportunity; but do so also with legal arguments, because I think it is worth it, because rigour must, as I say, always accompany a proposal of this nature. And I must also say that legal legitimacy is of no use to you without politics, and that is something that you are consciously unaware of. And, therefore, I am going to go into political evaluation of your proposal. But it really stops afterwards, in the reply, in the discussion of this question which I have just raised in the first part of the speech. Look, not long ago – not long ago – from this very rostrum of Parliament I was addressing you, the deputies of the UPC, to deny you your purported moral superiority, of which so much is shown by the left, and let us not say the revolutionary, which you incarnate. But at that time, because of the constraints of the specific debate that we had on that occasion, I could not develop it. Today yes – today yes – if I may, and I will enter directly into it. Look, you are not the adalids of work worthy, neither of integral protection, nor of defence to the workers' excess, by divine design, or because the oracle says it, or because you are the depositaries of the revealed truth. What you are trying to do, and what you are trying hard to do, is to save that purported defense in exclusivity that you are arrogating to achieve power – so clear – and, then, to impose your ideology. That is true, an ideology that is contrary to freedom, and to the freedom of any order: to freedom of enterprise, to market freedom, to freedom of thought, opposed to the autonomy of the will and abhorring of individual rights. That is the catalogue, that is the proposal that the CUP programme offers once and for all in this Parliament. And what do you want me to tell them? It is nothing more than to recover the old communist recipes, which we already know have never worked and, most seriously, which destroy with well-being, which destroy, which end and ruin progress and which, in addition, drain, chase and punish the entrepreneurial initiative to generate wealth. His proposals are aimed at socializing poverty, colonizing the private to end up spreading misery. Well, it doesn't affect you and your co-religionaries that much, because, of course, your private medical insurance and your private pension plans... those are on the right track, those are untouchable. Look, it's one more proposal, of these you do assiduously..., it's more typical of totalitarian regimes like Maduro's, it's an exproprie se chavista [[some applause]] , is a denial of productive economic activity – thanks to applause – under a free competition, which can generate, which must generate jobs and human progress. And that's the way it is. And it is good that indeed those who do not agree with your ideology, obviously, internalize these reasonings that you must respect, if you really consider yourselves tolerant and, as I say, respectful with those we think differently. Look, it is not true that public-private procurement at the municipal level only increases the accounts of large companies, because the payment plan to suppliers launched by the People's Party Government has also helped small and medium-sized entrepreneurs to cover the invoices that José Luis Rodríguez Zapatero's Government kept in a drawer. I said at the beginning of my speech that his statement of reasons was a pilgrim justification. It's not pejorative, is it? – I say this because you think that I am always in attack or direct aggression – it is synonymous with « original, « rare, » and I also say to you « weak, « weak and « wrong. Look, without spending ceiling, without deficit containment, public debt would be galloping and drowning public finances; our financing capacity would be zero, and economic collapse, inevitable. And yet – and history is there, and it's recent, and it's good to remember the, despite the fragile memory that some people display – our government, the government of Spain, avoided it, and managed to get the troika – you refer to it in your explanatory statement –, "men in black, will not enter Spain." They weren't here. However, his populist friends in Syriza, Greece, provoked precisely that. And they provoked him by his lack of restraint, by the reckless pulse they intended to throw at Brussels, ultimately harming – and this is the most serious – the Greek people, who are still paying the consequences. I say this because you recommend and propose these recipes to us for Catalonia, and therefore, really, it is an exercise of pure and hard empiricism. If you have failed in Greece, man, please act with common sense, do not want to impose it on us here. Look, in Spain we didn't fall for that because we were right in the opposite direction, and time has given us the reason. Although I know you won't recognize him. But, in any case, as I know, the speeches are not, in the end, aimed at convincing those who do not want to convince themselves but others who are not contaminated with that radical ideology that you exhibit, so these reasons can even serve as a support. Look, the economic and operational reform measures of the administrations have had effect. You, Mr CUP, have said that the rationalisation of administrative reform has been of no use at all. Well, yes, it did. Today the Spanish economy has strong signs of growth. And I will not bring figures, because the figures, depending on who presents them, serve what they serve, but are made objective. Even Mr Junqueras has, in the end, made appropriation – and I believe that in this case our colleague Fernando Sánchez Costa has explained it very well – of the parasitization that the Catalan economy is carrying out at the expense of the Spanish economy as a whole. But, in short, this shows that economic growth is taking place, because it was done in a correct way, because the most pressing problems were tackled and because it was sought that no Spanish would stay in the way. Because solidarity is a basic principle that Spanish democracy practices against..., as is done here, criminalizing solidarity, and it is also done by the President of the Generalitat in a regrettable way, in a shameful way, in a way..., I would dare to call it ruinous. Look, say, therefore, that the local financing plans and that budgetary stability has only served in the local world to pay money to large public service contractors and to charge interest and debts to the municipalities – is in their explanatory statement – when they are the healthiest institutions in our administrative conglomerate, it is little less than unaware of reality. Add, moreover, that they only serve to make the business to the large private banks is demagogic in pure state. And in that, you, gentlemen of the CUP, are the champions. This leads us to classify your proposal as a little presentable and therefore our amendment as a whole is inevitable. A piece of advice, if I may: solve the phenomenal mess between the public and the private. Look, to show you a button. At the end of the statement of pilgrim motives, his final conclusion, says in text: "It would make no sense," and the deputy of the CUP also said from this rostrum –"that what is foreseen in the succession of private actors cannot operate when the new operator is public in nature. This is a..., bah! How can I say that? , a phrase that violates common sense, with the rules..., or against the rules, rather, more essential of the reasoning. It is the open proclamation of intentional confusion between the public and the private. Look, I want to remind you of a basic principle that is learned first of all: administrations serve the general interest, companies not, private companies not, beyond that they should not harm it. Doesn't it seem essential to you? So, how do you want to compare or equate the succession of a public actor with a private one that occurs between private actors? That's a kick in administrative law. And there is some other jurist in this room, from the UPC, that I think perhaps the proposition has not been read, because, if I had read it, I would have said: "Hey, take this off; mark it off," mark it off. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, god-n'hi-do, huh? , so deu-n'hi-do; the basic principles of operation, the difference between public and private law, I think they have been quickly forgotten. Anyway, I'm finishing up. Look, beyond its contempt for private economic initiative, history shows us invariably that nationalizing fundamentalism only causes the bankruptcy, isolation and poverty of the societies in which it applies. And Catalonia, the Catalans, we don't deserve it. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.222.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Then, by the turn of the line, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.223.0	Thank you, President. Well, to the spokesman of the People's Party, to see, I don't try, I won't try to solve their problems, because I'm not a psychologist or psychiatrist; so, there you are – there you are. [[Greetings.]] I don't worry about it, no, no. And don't worry about your words or what... you haven't worried about your words in a while, but I'm worried about your facts—your facts—those that make from power and from the clavegars. These are the ones I'm worried about. The rest, the words, can say Mass, as they say to my people, that I will not listen to them. « Rakitica i« pilgrims and I don't know how many more things..., well; « legal barbarity... « Rakitica? As a matter of fact, if we go by measure, what you do in the transaction that you have approved in Madrid in the assumptions: four lines – four lines. This is rickets, pure and hard rickets. Four lines to save a few assumptions – four lines to save a few assumptions. And in this, in legal terms that you say, in terms of... I don't stand up for the public service workers, those who think they're their national salvation army. They're not. They're civil servants. And we defend public service workers as much as they are not. Or maybe – or maybe – you'll tell me that those who clean up for Contract Development, when they clean up any town halls, they do it in..., and they do it with public money, they follow the principles of merit and ability? Are they following them? They're following them, these people? Are they following them? We're not going into this... We tried to defend not just the right of municipalities to the remunicipalization of their services– of their services–, but... – went to say a word, but I won't say it – which has value – went to say « colons, but no, I won't say it. [[relays]] – what's the value of you defending me at these times, huh? , the public-private relationship, so to speak – is maca, the word. But if they're up here at the shitty neck – up here at the shitty neck – in this relationship. [[Greetings and soundings.]] Yeah, man, yeah. Or you didn't hear the relationship I gave you, did you? Someday, too, it'll be the second congressman we'll have to go to town halls where things are done from the public sphere. And he's a fan... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes; the day they come – the day they come. Well, the day you come and we win, too, because we don't always want to go with you, huh? And the other is the defense of rights. I say, as we have said, this proposal is based on a message that you introduced in a "pilgrim" way into the project of assumptions and that did not come out well. They didn't come out well because they included gatherings of you gave them the skeleton; gatherings of you saw behind this proposal an attempt to defend those who..., those who, today, through contracts, eh? , of contracts made in this public-private collaboration, what they have done is to enrich itself, to enrich itself through the management of public services. I say it already – time was over – I will not discuss its political differences, but "Spain is fine: Spain is fine but the people are fatal. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.224.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Then, in order to fix its position, has the word Marina Bravo, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.225.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, we are faced with a delicate and complex issue; delicate because it affects, because it puts at stake the work of many people, and complex because it deals, in the background, with the organization itself of the public administration. In addition, it raises many blisters and involves many passions, as we have seen in the two previous interventions. But, passions aside, what is true is that after the news we have received in recent years, after certain scandals, it is very understandable that from many municipalities the idea of ending all that and ending externalisations that in many cases have had more shadows than lights is to be flagged. We have seen toe auctions, we have seen endless extensions of concessions that did not have to be extended, we have seen exceptional and suspiciously advantageous conditions for many companies. In short, we have seen capitalism of amiguetes, which sadly has spread across all administrations, reaching also the municipalities; a capitalism of amiguetes that has distorted the processes that must guarantee free competition and that have caused our companies and our workers to lose competitiveness. And, of course, corruption; we have also seen corruption. In Catalonia we know very well. We were able to see cases where personal interests, personal benefit, or where everyone's money was going to stop paying for the campaigns of a few. There have been shameful cases, and against them, of course, it is time for all of us to make a flag, without any doubt. And in that fight don't worry, they'll always find us. But what has happened to direct governance? Unfortunately, we have also had similar cases. Unfortunately, direct governance has in many cases also been manipulated in an interesting and dark way. We've seen hyperpolitized public enterprises serving the incumbent politician. And you can't even say they've been free from corruption. We have seen companies and public administrations that looked like placement agencies, obviating any criteria of merit, capacity, and let's not say experience. And we have seen many administrations in which, after placing all the friends, they have forgotten what their goal was, why they were there, and have drained endless resources by offering precarious services and being led to total bankruptcy without anyone, without any of those responsible for collecting public money, having assumed responsibility. It cannot be that it comes out for free to bring a public administration to bankruptcy, because that too we pay heavily all citizens. Against all this we are fighting now; we are putting in place anti-corruption laws, protection of whistleblowers, and we have passed amendments to the Contracts Act aimed at attacking the capitalism of friends. We have also made proposals for the evaluation of public policies, and it is that the dangers, the risks in one way or another of management are there, although some ideological approaches seem to see only those on the one hand. Some argue that the only good option is the public, and even appeal to moral issues to defend them. Others, however, argue that for some strange reason companies are always, always, more effective, obviating dozens of realities and concrete examples that would throw that claim to the ground. They don't have to convince me that public management in many cases is the right option, not just the right one, but the most efficient and the least expensive one; they don't have to convince me because I've worked in the public administration and I've seen it with my own eyes. You don't have to convince me, but you won't easily convince me otherwise. They have heard me repeat it here on more than one occasion: the choice of the concrete formula for the provision of a service, the choice between direct management by the public administration or indirect management with the participation of companies, or between any of the intermediate possibilities, should and cannot be an ideological or aprioristic issue. In some cases, depending on the constraints, allowing private companies to participate in the management of a particular public service may be key to its effectiveness, but in others it may be counterproductive; it may be difficult to control, or it may simply be more expensive. In those cases, of course, we'll have to rule them out. There are also cases where governance is difficult to overcome, but in others private participation is needed to attract funding, to introduce innovative solutions or to provide the necessary experience in some cases. Fortunately, we already have enough experience in Europe on all types of management, and in Spain we also have many cases. There are reports from the Court of Auditors explaining the results of this management, explaining the quality of service and talking about costs in the various municipalities. The results are very illustrative and can help make decisions. For the smaller ones, for the smaller municipalities, efficiency is often gained with services provided in joint ventures or concerts. The result differs, of course, with the size of the municipality – small, medium or large – but it also differs with the type of service we want to provide and even with the business fabric we have available for that specialty. The same conclusions are not drawn when we are talking about cleaning than when we are talking about water management; nor when we are talking about water or lighting, for example. The power of self-organisation of public services is, of course, part of the essential core of local autonomy – which is guaranteed, by the way, constitutionally – but ideological a prioriisms take us away from the objective, which is, and is reflected in the law, to have quality public services. And that can't be in any way, it's also covered by the law, which has to be in the most efficient and sustainable way. And if I talk to you about all this, it is because we cannot say that there has been no apriorism here, when the title of the proposal is 'protecting municipalities'. Look, we don't want to protect municipalities, nor do we want to make them difficult; what we want to protect are public services, which is the way to protect citizens. That must be our goal, and we cannot be distracted with apriorism. And, of course, we also want to protect, of course, the rights of workers. There can be no uncertainties, nor can we let them have doubts, as they are indeed having in these times. But do you think that the text they propose here helps you? Adding an article that proposes jumping out of a pen the constitutional principles of access to the public service, which obviates the principles of equality, merit and capacity? Is all this in order to get the medallite, questionable, of the municipalities without any kind of hindrance or conflict? We know that they like to jump over the laws, but it is absolutely incredible, indeed, that they believe that, with this text, which sets out rights and guarantees, which conflicts with them, they are helping the workers. If this proposal for a law continues, we will propose an alternative text, which, instead of relying on a prioriism, is based on a common sense, and instead of seeking more problems, try to provide the clarifications that all workers deserve. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.226.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bravo. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.227.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies, councillor. So, today the CUP presents us with a modification of the text recast of the Municipal Law of Catalonia, and, say, with an objective, that is to protect the processes of remunicipalization, that is, those processes that autonomously the assemblies decide whether they want to internalize, that is, if they want to manage them directly. The truth is that the title is ambition, but when we get into the text we see that in the end what we do is to incorporate an article into this law, concretely 307, and it seems to me that the proposal remains poor, right? We see it as simple, and we don't know if this article will really protect these remunicipalization processes. Maybe, a little, the workers, but we think we might have made a more distressing proposal, don't we? , especially thinking that it came from the CUP. In any case, we would like to make, from the Socialist Group, four reflections, to position our vote, that already the progress that will be contrary to the challenge to the totality of the People's Party, and, therefore, let us allow the process to, then, in the process, therefore, be able to improve the text. But in any case, we would like to make four reflections. The first is that there's one thing we don't like, and we've told them a little while ago in a young man who introduced us to you, which is that we don't like this way they have to demonize two things: u, the Administration, because somehow what you end up doing is demonizing the forms of management that you legally decide, with all the sovereignty that you also talk about, the local Administration. That is to say, the local administration, according to the laws, has the ability to decide how to manage the public services entrusted to it by the municipal law, and, therefore, here there are different ways: direct management, indirect management, and indirect there are concessions, concerts, mercantile companies, cooperatives with mixed capital; it is to say, many formulas, and each local administration decides what formula is best. So, there's a rebuttal of demonizing this election that makes the gathering, if you haven't decided to run it directly. And I'm already telling you, you know, that the Socialist Group agrees to remunicipalize when the assembly decides it because you think it will improve management, but it doesn't always mean that it will improve management. In any case, we have to guarantee – we have to guarantee – right? It's like..., sometimes we say: "To make a new country doesn't mean that the woman is better; we have to make sure that it's better and we have to work because it is. So, that's the same thing: doing it directly doesn't guarantee that it's better managed. And what we have to look for is that we give the best service to the city. I believe that this is the objective, that we give the best service to the city, and that we guarantee it a few rights through which the law allows us to make from the local world. This is a first demonization that appears in some subliminal way in the text and in the presentation made to us by Mr. Garriga. And the second is that we're also giving a little credit to the companies, and some of them have won a bunch of envelopes, right? , because in the end they managed poorly, they abused their position with subcontracts, with the precariousness of working conditions, with the intrusion into sectors in which they had no expertise or knowledge, and, therefore, they broke the market. It's true that some people have done very badly, and we're paying them, it's true, every citizen, right? , their mismanagement. But here there is not only a business problem – and here we are also going to carry responsibility to the Administration –, here too there is a fault of the Administration, because the Administration when it directs a service, does not have to do a follow-up, does not have to do a check, does not have to do an accounting, and has not done well. And that didn't work out, that's true, but it's not the business's fault. The company has to act correctly, but it is not just the fault of the company, it is also the fault of the Administration that has not done the job that was close to it. And with indirect management, it happens a lot of times, that we don't finish following that contract, that concert, and that seems to me to be one of the things that we need to get better at. And I don't know if we can get into this too. But this is an important element for us, who decided to do it in a way..., by indirect management have more instruments and, therefore, can control and follow up better than that entrusted to a private company. And I can also remember: they are not just bad private businesses and so on, and with which of demons, are they not? There are many cooperatives that run municipal services, schools in Bressol... At my village the school in Bressol is run by a cooperative for indirect management. There are foundations with no desire for work that hire people with disabilities who make clean journeys. Mataró passes, for example. That's to say, it's not just the private enterprise that wants to make a profit and that against everything it does a management... I see that here there are many forms of business that are also working for social cohesion and for the better, so also for the same society. And, therefore, I think it's okay here that we can differentiate this. This is the first reflection. The second, and I've announced it a little, is that it seems to us that the intention is good, but that we stay in the middle, huh? That is to say, in the end we only incorporate an article and we could do more if what we really want is to protect these remunicipalization processes where the worker is not the only weak element. And so, here, so, we can talk about it... I hope we can talk about it in the process. Third thought. Still, it is true that if there is a weak element in all these processes, it is the worker. In this we can agree, that we disagree with the proposal you make to us. Mirin, public administrations must ensure that access to work places is through transparent processes, guaranteeing the principles of equality, merit and ability. And, in fact, the UPC voted this morning on another law, which now does not see the case, but it voted it, that. He has voted on a point where this is raised, but I understand that the CUP agrees with this, but the proposal that makes us change the municipal law does not respond to this. Because the proposal made to us by the UPC is, they are, in the internalization process, that is, the remunicipalization of the workers' services can be considered public workers and be incorporated into the Administration as such. Without going through a process? Without these... without guaranteeing the principles of equality, merit and ability? As a public employee it cannot be, because LEBEP also makes it very clear to us that it is a public employee, and among other things what this public employee has to do is go through a process, because we must ensure that we also have the best. I do not say that the workers of the private enterprise or of a foundation or of a cooperative do not follow, but we have to guarantee some processes, because if it is not also a very clear imbalance with respect to which they are working at the Administration. So, this is an element that... or that the group generates a lot of doubts and we would like to work well. Miri, and to pose a dice, right? , the Social Chamber of the Supreme Court – although some do not like the courts of other states, but – of the Spanish State, this I think is a very interesting feeling, which comes out in 2015. He said, well, he explained, that "it has been established repeatedly that the employment contract with the Public Administration, on the margins of the proper system of weighting of merit and skill, prevents workers from being equal to those who have a fixed position to the staff. We could decide that these workers were indefinite non-fixed laborers, but we can't tie a public employment square to a person who hasn't passed a process. This figure exists. So, we decide this is it, but this isn't a public employee, is it? In other words, the definition of "public employee" does not include this characterization, does it not? That's the specifics. So, well, let's get this straight; change it to make it better, shall we? But from the beginning, when you read it, you say, "Hey, something – something – is happening. So, with this, we'd have to go with it. There's also one thing to say: the Staffing of Workers, in its article 44, already allows you to subrogate staff, when you do a process of remunicipalization. It's true that it looks like it's more like it's faced with two companies that subrogate, isn't it? , one is managing a service, leaving it and, therefore, the new subrogates these workers. But it could also be used in the case of public administration. But I agree that this could be guaranteed, right? And so, in this sense, we agree with the transfer and with the objective that you are pursuing. But we have to do it right. We must do well not to generate imbalances and inequalities between those who at these times already exercise public functions. And then there's one element, the last, that I'd like to comment on, that you talk a lot about local sobrieties and building sobrieties from municipal areas, and we agree on that. But there's also a hindrance to your proposal that doesn't seem to be enough to respect it, is there? , because in the end what we have to allow is that everyone, from the local environment, does what they think is right. And if there's anyone who decides that he's doing everything by indirect management, then I'm surprised. When another government comes in, if you decide it has to be another way, I'll change it. And we also need to be aware of this, that some legal decisions or changes we make [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] They don't stop the new government coming up from making changes. But I'm saying it in the positive or negative, huh? I'm not putting it down. But we have to go or I think we have to go with it. I am saying this because, if we accepted this modification to the CUP text, everyone would become a public employee and there would be no possibility after going back without these processes that we have been doing. And I want to dedicate these forty seconds to the PP. Because, of course, the PP makes a point to totality, as it can't be any other way, because it's consistent, anyway, with what they always say, right? Clar..., « respect local autonomy, neither, eh? – nor – Mr. Santamaría. Because, of course, you have now submitted in the general budgets of the State a modification which comes to say that, listen, you will not be able to subrogate the staff of a company to the Administration, there will be no way to do this..., you say so, won't you? And, in addition, they say that, in the case that can be done because there is a judgment of a court, this will take into account the reposition that marks the State, right? That's to say, of course, you here are slashing the local administration without the possibility of it having any margin. But the local administration has the autonomy to decide how to organize itself. And, with a few margins, what you're doing with the presupposition project is narrowing down and limiting local autonomy. And we can't agree on that. And, therefore, we cannot give support to this goal to the totality. We believe that there are elements to improve for what it does, therefore, to the direct or indirect management of the services that manage the joints and, therefore, we will not support it. Let's hope that in the process we can improve these doubts that will be generated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.228.0	Mrs. Romero...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.229.0	I'm done, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.230.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.231.0	...the doubts that are generated and, therefore, improve this text. But, as we have said, we would vote fairly, in this way, and as a result, to the whole of the People's Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.232.0	Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.233.0	Thank you, President. Look, you're presenting us with an emergency law proposal that's not what it looks like, or, in any case, that's not what you want to be. We want it to be dealt with – we want it to be dealt with – and, therefore, we will vote against the threat to totality. But we want in this process to do well what the title says and part of the motivating statement, which is the legal protection of the municipalities of public services. I'm trying to explain myself. We agree in the municipality or the remunicipalization of basic services to the city, as can be the water service, for example, for various reasons sufficiently explained on other occasions and which are not yet a reason for debate. We do not agree, but we have presented on various occasions parliamentary initiatives in this sense, in this legislature and in the previous ones, some of them approved and never sufficiently pleased for the government to which you give sporadic support. Therefore, we understand that there is a need for a law-based text that favors these processes and gives guarantees to people who are working in businesses that offer services that will become municipalized. So we share a good part of his motius exposure. In fact, it only has four parsels and we share two, the two backs, because the first two are just the usual I.D. rhetoric without the content that we all fit into ours, let's say, respectable corporate libels, huh? But at the end of the day, you say interesting things we share. One, that some assemblies have initiated processes of remunicipalization of public services that do not count on the proper legal protection and that, at last, get back to the wheels on the part of the party in the Spanish government – you say the General Courts, but well, they already understand each other. Completely agree. They also say that the intention of this proposal is to protect the processes of remunicipalization and, above all, to give protection to workers and workers of municipal enterprises and to guarantee their subrogation in the new public sector that they manage. So, look, we agree, too, on this will, and we believe, moreover, that it is essential to do so, but what problem do we have? So, that the text of the proposal, which is to be processed as it is, does not complete this object, but, on the contrary, can complicate it. I'll give him two reasons for our way of hearing. The first, because we are ill-considered and do not believe that this is the will of the text that you present. We believe that the will of the text is to confront the State. I'll try to prove it there. Maybe I'm wrong, huh? And the second, that the approval of this text would be useless, because it could not be carried to practice or, if you try to carry it in a forced manner, it could end up harming the same subrogated workers to whom it is supposed to be intended to protect. And I'll try to prove it there, too. Miri, two texts, because they can be compared: "They may not consider as public employees nor may they incorporate in that condition in a public administration or in an entity governed by public law the workers of contractors of concessions of public works or services or of any other contract awarded by public administrations when the contracts are extinguished by their performance, by resolution, including the rescue, or if the abduction or intervention of the service is adopted in accordance with the law of public sector contracts applicable to them. Wow! [[Widow's remorse.]] And now, in catalá: "Public workers will be considered and can be incorporated with this condition to a local public administration or a public law entity depending on the workers of contractors for concessions of works... [[Widow's remorse.]] I could go next. Listen to me, the first is Article 27 of the general assumptions of the State presented by the Government of the State, and the second is its proposal for full law. [[Someone's applauding. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] Huh? All right, huh? I guessed. The only difference is a 'no' – it's a 'no'. It's the only difference, it's almost a plague. The PP presents an article to its assumptions that, effectively – effectively – it puts the wheels on the guarantees of the workers involved in these remunicipalization processes, and what we intend to do here is to approve an article in the exact opposite sense knowing that this article will go into complete contradiction with the recently approved and we will start a new competition conflict that does not solve the issue and that does not favor anyone. You see, how will it be to confront the state and not to favor re-empowerment? And it is that to solve the issue the automatic translation betrays the « does not complicate our life. Miri: "They cannot be considered as public workers. It's absolute, no slaves. The PP has done well his restrictive view. Now, its counter: "It would be considered public workers, it would have to be matisable – it would have to be matisable – because, even though the additional twenty-seven additional provision does not exist, this generalization would not be possible if we complied with the rules for access to public office, which requires a supply of seats and a selection process. And if a contract is made without these characteristics, anyone who has aspirations to access these places could file an appeal that could easily block the process and leave the workers they want to protect in the defense. Because, among other things, from the municipal law we would be entering into a modification of a basic state regulation. I know you don't believe in the state, but that, to the affected worker, would happen. Therefore, in order to develop the will expressed in the explanatory statement, which is to facilitate the remuneration of services and to protect the workers who develop them, we should seek proposals that favor it, developing the framework of existing regulations, that are few – that are few – but that exist and on which there is beginning to be case law. In this sense, it is necessary to seek the origin and warmth of the European Economic Community Directive 2001/23 of 12 March 2001 on the maintenance of workers' rights in the event of transfers of undertakings, when it makes clear to Article 1c that the Directive applies to both public and private undertakings with an economic activity with or without employment. This provision of the directive has been taken into account in the interpretation of Article 44 of the Staff Regulations, which refers to the success of undertakings and to subrogations, in various courts, where a public administration has been directly or through a public undertaking owned by some of the services which was granted in a private undertaking. For example, the recent judgment of the Superior Court of Justicia d'Astúries of 21 March last, which declares that no one is to accept the staff in a process of reversal of the tax collection service, or the judgment of the Superior Court of Justicia of Galícia of 5 May, in the reversal of the netting service of an assembly which declares that it is not to accept the staff and obliges the municipality to maintain it as indefinitely not fixed while covering or cushioning the square for the regular lives of the civil service. They're examples, and we'd find some. In summary, we find ourselves in a legally bordered land between the criteria of subrogation and the occupation of public places, but there is beginning to be case law that takes into account that those who cannot get out harmed in any way are the workers who provide the service. Of course, the twenty-seven additional provision of the assumptions will complicate our lives, of course, and it is more obvious, more so for us than anyone who writes it has a flair for public management and prefers to grant it in private hands, especially if it can be their friendships that can suck up in concessions. We agree. But it's also true that the same arrangement, let's read it right, because it opens a lock when it says that this staff will be applied to the predictions about the success of companies that there is to labour law, legislation that I have just mentioned. So it's contradictory in itself in a few points, and it opens a lock. And also in his second article, when he places as an exception the processing of a procedure that guarantees the principles of equality, merit and ability and the compliment of judicial judgments. We could convert this exception into a standard and establish a mechanism to facilitate in a first step the guarantee of subrogation and in a_second step the processing of this procedure. It's ideas to start working on it. The term is frankly complex and, as it is complex, what I think and the proposition we don't do is: to a firm basic standard, to oppose a wish, so we won't get out of it. Therefore, what would be hot, if it is done – and I hope so – is to seek a report – willing to work with it – to facilitate the re-empowerment of the servants, but not to complicate their lives either to our assemblies or to the people who are working in these services. And in this sense they will find us with their hands extended to try to find a writing that fulfills these conditions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.234.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.235.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. You will advise, Members, Members, well, first of all, from the Junts Group's will for the Yes to be able to speak of everything, we have also announced, therefore, that we will also reject this call to the totality so that we can get to go through this PL, but that we accept that it goes through doesn't mean that we agree; instead, there are things that need to be killed and that need to be killed clearly and in good principles, right? We understand that it's a proposition of law that's sharp, you said it. As there has been a remark to the general assumptions of the State, we have seen ourselves in the urgency of presenting this here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, given that I suppose that by not having..., having or wanting to have representation at the Congress, it is the sign that there is, therefore, here, the Parliament of Catalonia. From here, we are obliged or asked to act on something that we will see later if it can be effective enough or not, given that it is now in character to the Senate and, moreover, there is a basic character; therefore, here, the margin of maneuver at short, let us say, that it is a little bit..., that it is bait. But, well, let's talk about it. From here on out, I think we're going to have a very interesting debate, because here, beyond what the law's strictly saying, what we're talking about here is how we lend municipal services. So, more than talking about municipalities or remunicipalizations, what we're talking about is that you're already serving municipalities, and language is also important. Therefore, what we are talking about is these municipal services, which are already in place, whether directly or indirectly, as they can be provided, let us say, and the best possible quality. And as from here, therefore, we can measure it, because at the time of planning how we lend the services or how we want to recover a type of management we can guarantee more or less the working conditions of the workers. We understand that from what they have to start with a principle, which is in the text that is proposed and with which, in principle, we do not agree, as it is written, what we cannot claim is that when we day these remunicipalizations or municipalities we cannot actually lead to a privatisation of the public supply of employment. What can't be is that what we're sometimes saying is that when we give in or when we're outsourced some services, at a time, then, when we want them to recover what causes a retouching effect, then privatize the public offer of that service that could be objected to if it's directly provided. Therefore, this would upset what it would be like, as has already been said here, some other Members, against free competition, against the passing of selective tests, against the principles of equality, merit and ability. So what we're saying is that the joint ventures, if they have to assume these contracts that are planted at the law's proposal, so, well, right now, it's true, with the current legislation we have a problem. We don't agree – and we agree with you – on the subject of state assumptions, we disagree. We don't agree with ARSAL, we don't agree; we don't agree with the expense relief, we don't agree. These standards or these things do more than sometimes at the time of wanting to recover or not a service, at the time of planting as you want to do, they either involve you or direct you to a type of management. I give you an example: for example, if I, if in a joint, the template of a concrete service was great, it was jubilant, the rule does not allow me to rest the service, as I have to continue lending the service, if not the rest can force me to look for an indirect service. Therefore, it is true that these standards influence the time to configure. And then it's gone beyond the way we want it to go; it's like we only have the opportunity to lend it. And this is where it deprives and violates what would be municipal autonomy, to be able to make a real deal of how we want to provide these services. What we would have to ask ourselves – and I suppose we would be talking about it in the first place – is whether or not it is possible to understand what a succession of companies is, and whether it is applicable or not; we would have to talk about it if it was this way. In any case, in the event that it is understood that it was an association of enterprises in which they are incorporated into an entity or public administration, this incorporation is carried out under conditions of indefinite employment not fixed. And this is already covered in the recast text of the State of Public Employment; precisely, it is answerable by inability to access the public service directly. Therefore, there is also mass subject and mass causalities as to be able, let's say, to give automatic support to this purpose of the law. Basically because there is a multi-causality of services or work that can be provided directly, not municipalized, but provided directly. And they can be of many kinds: as we have said, water, clean water, welfare, social services, which we have already said here, cooperative issues, third sector entities, brush collection, gardening, public transport, etc. And then again, with this, as it is written, we could ask ourselves: "And if this is done this way, when we talk about all the workers, about the company that should be subrogated, are we also talking about taking over the directives of these very organizations? For nothing, because they're also workers, in this case. So we'll have to see this all the way up. We would also have to take into account the size of the municipalities and also the volumes of the services; it is not the same a service provided directly or indirectly in a municipality of fifteen_ thousand inhabitants that in one of..., of 200,000. Therefore, here there is a multi-causeality, that the fact of putting under a same umbrella all the strength of the proposal of the norm makes it difficult to contemplate it. But we understand that the thick path may have a chance to find a few different points against the time to ensure the continuity of these services at the time some of the next round wants to make the sovereign decision to want to get back direct management. As if, if there is this will, you have to be able to have tools to do it, even if the contracts and legislation already show you who the proposals are, from here on, for a matter of labor guarantee, we have to see how it is done without that you will violate these principles that we have said, of free competition, and the principles of equity and equal access to public office. Therefore, let us say that it is a stalactic proposal, which responds, therefore, to an urgency that sees from a parliament that is not this, that it is that of the Spanish State, and that, therefore, we react, let us say, correctly to an action that can come from there and that we have difficult control in this sense. But even so, as the aspiration of the debate is not to dwell on a law proposal, let's say, to face a fine proposal like the one you are presenting, I think we can have an ingressor debate, build and with many examples and with many causalities of what the performance of the different public services means. Finally, with our reviews, therefore, what we would try to do, and with the different appearances..., we would try to combine these municipalities, that is, that this recovery from direct service management can be done with guarantees, without violating rights, and we would emphasize that these temporary solutions to ensure the continuity of the service in these processes do not automatically interfere with these principles that we have said, of free competition and evidence of access to public administration. Therefore, for all this, as I said at the beginning, we will also vote against the threat to the totality, let it be dealt with. We want to participate actively in this debate; we know that there is a short, limited, but long, I think, powerful enough, and not from the idea only of how we recover direct management, just as we plant management models, let's say, without having the topalls that already mark our standard and that make it impossible for us to decide freely on the cent_per_cent which management model we want to apply to our public services. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.236.0	Thank you very much, Mr Solsona. We're calling it a vote. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.237.0	President, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.238.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.239.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga, I see that respect doesn't work with you, does it? You've been short of breath, you've been grumpy, you've been short of breath... but, well, in any case, [[remorse of the voice]] , I go to the historical fact: City Hall of Sant Pere de Ribes, year 2015 – you were then the president of the area of territorial services –, awarding works of the rehabilitation of the castle of Sant Pere de Ribes for the amount of 77,000_euros, negotiated procedure without publicity, that is, not by open competition, curiously to the mayor's brother. Mr Garriga's pilgrim reply today: "If not, they would all have presented themselves. Great, Mr. Garriga. Keep it up, you'll get very far in the administration of the public thing. [[Someone says, "Very good.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.240.0	Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.241.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.242.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.243.0	Thirty seconds, yes. No, no..., just tell the mayor of the PP that I know hard that..., what he has commented on this work forms part of an economic recovery plan in the municipality that incorporated 3_million euros and that meant an important, economic and social reaction in the village. Any day we can discuss it publicly and in the utilizant, with utility, small fragments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-06-14-3701.244.0	Thank you. [[Long break.]] Well, let's now proceed to the vote of the speech to the totality, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. As the totality was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 81 against and 26 abstentions, this initiative continues its processing. Thank you very much to all of you. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
