ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Asking the Government about food and school transport services]] [[300-00164/11]] The new item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on the services of food and school transport, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Miss Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.2.0	Well, thank you, Madam President. Very good morning to everyone. Honourable Counselor..., I would like to take advantage of the opportunity offered by this inquiry to shed light on two questions that concern us: two essential services linked to the education service and loaded with problems such as the food service and the school transport service. We know that both services are regulated by decrees of year 96, so before the same LEC, and the need for updating and modification, therefore, is obvious. The society has changed, the decree has not been updated with the new applications of the student and the families of the educational community, new social and educational applications, and we think it is appropriate to make this update already. In addition, this amendment has been a repeated petition from this Parliament, which has been pronounced on numerous occasions in this and previous legislatures. And now we have known for the media, also for our relationship with various entities, which are working there, that the government is working there, and therefore we would like to take advantage of this space to get to know some details. And as they are already working, counsel, we would expect from their government a new decree before the beginning of their own course, because it is urgent to straighten the sector and because they can no longer wait. And it must also be that this inn is done in a participatory manner with the educational and social agents involved. I will focus above all on the food service, a service that effectively forms part of the education system, which must be recognized as such. Conceptually, we are sure that today we can agree that this is so, and therefore we cannot accept that it is considered a ‘complementary and educational aid', as stated in the decree of year 96. It's obvious that it's not part of lectual time – it's obvious – but we need to start talking about "educational time: let's keep in mind that infants spend a 30_per_cent of the time they spend in school at the caterer, and that it's a space where they produce most conflicts that develop in the centers. All folded, makes it necessary to review the approximation that is made. But he said that eating time is an educated time, in this case priority, because the eating service, the access to this service, has a direct impact on growth, socialization, education, and also on a healthy and balanced diet. It's a priority in the first and second cycles of childhood education, where children learn to eat; it's important for children's development first, and it's crucial again at secondary school, where most food disorders are detected, and even more so when secondary school doesn't have this service, it's guaranteed for everyone, and now I'll talk about it. Therefore, the food service must no longer be considered a supplementary service and must be considered a trunk service within the same educational system. And this is especially relevant when working on the hourly reform, when we have a compact day in secondary school, with the problems that were going on, and when we find ourselves with, too, pressures to compact a day in primary school. And for all that, it is essential to clarify and recognize in the new decree that the fooder's service is an educational service that can be integrated in the educational curriculum, and not only in the compulsory teachings, also in the levels of children's education. It is necessary to deal with a universal, non-obligatory, logically, service to which families must be able to attach themselves. And we would actually like it to be free, but we understand that we are far from here and before we want to insist on some other questions. I've been through points, but now I'm going to stop: we've got a big problem in high school. The compaction of the day led to the closure of most of the institute's caterers. We know that in some municipalities the closure of this facility served the institutes in the worst years of the crisis led to the immediate opening of social workers. Imagine'sl'stigma for a teenager, a prime child of ESO, for example, a child of twelve years, who without fooder at the center, without scholarship, without resources at home, has to dinar after every school day in a social fooder. It is necessary to reverse this hardship and to re-open the school teachers to all the institutes before the course we begin. We do not know how many institutes have been able to maintain, despite the day, this service. We would like to know: how many public institutes do you keep eating? How many concerted centres – these, uncompromised – do they maintain? Because we think that would be very enlightening. But, look, even without this information, we demand that this reopening be the first proposal of the hourly reform, because teenagers can't keep saying four or four times later, and that's what they do. And, in the past, it seems to us ashamed that the few that still offer this service do it with the hands of NGOs, associations or even programs linked to companies like Grifols via sponsorship. Miri, the Administration can't get out of an essential service. And I want to leave the issue of scholarships, food aid to the margin of this question. That's what we've dealt with many times, it's reformed. But, Counselor, the Government, as an educational authority, must re-open its own course at the Institute, and that must be done to everyone. And, therefore, I would like to ask you if you would be willing to guarantee it. A third thing: the 96 decree allows one thing that our eyes are unsustainable. We find the case of students forced to move outside their municipality of residence because they do not have a place of public offer, which offers the free food service in concerted centres. This, a priori, should not alienate anyone, because it is a compulsory schooling in these centers, it is not the first option, but in practice it generates some perversities, and I will stop it. We are talking about concerted secondary schools where students do not have a place in their municipality, but who can live with public institutes in this same municipality with students who do not only have the gratuity, it is that they do not even have the food service so alone because in the public there is no food service. And, besides, as I said, this help, this gratuity is guaranteed independently of the level of income, and this, in a current context of presuppositionary restriction, above all of vulnerability, of economic difficulties of certain population groups, does not seem to us to be fair because it can generate important discrimination. Think, therefore, that we need to introduce this income criterion. And I'm saying this because we find centers that secrete by sex – at Baix Penedès, for example – with a student who has a scholarship to serve as a caterer at other institutes that don't only have a scholarship... because they don't even serve as a caterer. And another question is worth it... for the subject of school transportation. We can have families with an educated center on the side of the house, on the street on the side, but it forms part of another municipality, which we do guarantee freeness, because it represents that there is a change of municipality, even though it is, walking, two minutes away from home, and, in change, other disaggregated municipalities, as can be Rubí, where schooling in the same municipality does not exempt you from doing kilometers to access it. And therefore, introduce the criteria of distance and difficulty of access, and also the criteria of income. And by jumping to the decree regulating the school transport service to facilitate displacement, we have in this sense the need to address an urgent review as well. We know that we have long been in contact with the basic rule of the LOE, but that we should work with the assumption of the minimum distance, a review that we believe must guarantee the adequacy of assistance also in the case of transport services considered not mandatory but that they are necessary, according to income criteria and the nature of the displacement. And I'm saying this because we're tired of knowing where school transportation is essential to access these centers, but in change, it's not guaranteed. I can talk about Rubí, as I said, with some centers in struggle years ago to achieve the government's commitment to guarantee the school transport service in conditions of difficult access, or the Bellaterra school, which, despite its geographical situation, is very unique, recognized for this Parliament, which has been approved, there is no way that the government guarantees them the school transport they would need and, in change, sees how it is operated by an urban bus, when it knows perfectly well that it is not the way to move under conditions of safety in P3. Today's choice is a step in the right direction to express their demands and from here we give them our support. The lady will advise, so that we put solutions now, and can not delegate the support of this service to the deputies again, as happens with the schools Bressol. But going back to the beggars: it seems incomprehensible to me that there is no ratio of professionals and students in the performance of this service, which clearly differentiates first-cycle, second-cycle, primary, secondary education, and especially if we talk about children and young people with specific educational needs. It is necessary to introduce suitable rates that allow a good attention of the student. If we think it's an educational space, we need professional resources to enable us to do a pedagogical task. We know of cases – not one, nor two, nor three: many cases – of massacacions at the hour of the fooder: monitors of P3 with twenty-five children or more, and this at the beginning of the course is a hell: it generates situations of extremes to the workers and conditions of very long quality that would be desirable. We have known complaints that place, at last, forty children under the responsibility of a single professional, and in this context it is practically impossible to do any educational activity. The new legislation, therefore, has to fix a maximum ratio of children per professional. And we want to ask him if the government has any criteria that have already been formed about which ones are to be these, if they work on any proposals. About the training of professionals. We also understand that the fooder as an educational service requires professionals with specific training and, therefore, adient. Do you share it, Counselor? You think you're supposed to be educators? Should I be there, even, docs? What's the government's opinion? And for what it does to work conditions, do you think it has to be the reference to the current convenience of reading? From the PSC to which we place them is to face once and for all a dignity of a very precarious sector. A special mention deserves the case of infants and young people with specific educational needs. If you don't have professional specifications for this service, you can't talk about an inclusive system. We have already denounced here that the new decree, or decree announcement, does not enter the school bressol, does not enter the leure, does not enter the eater, and that cannot be. It is necessary to guarantee specific facilities because people with special educational needs do not exist or feel excluded from the service, and that is what the new decree must guarantee. And linked to this issue, and precisely to ensure this inclusive food delivery system with students' pathologies as can be related to gluten intake with guarantees of safety, that also implement food safety protocols to all schools – mandatory control mechanisms for processing, handling, serving procedures – and ensure the necessary training at the pool of professionals linked to this service. In short, we believe that the new regulation needs to be flexible, but it needs to be more secure. And hopefully we don't have to wait for another course to expand and apply the pending modification. I'll leave other important questions for the second time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. It has the word Ms. Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.4.0	Thank you. Good morning, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. As you have said, the transport and food regulations are from year 96, so since year 96 there has been no government that has ever changed, but it is true that it has been up there for a long time. The year 89 is when the competitions were passed on to the regional councils, and it was decided that they would manage it either directly through a public contract, or through other organizations as may be joint ventures, etc., always through an agreement. The reality, however, is that in Catalonia this service has been very diverse from time to time, and we find mensadores managed by local councils, mensadores managed by AMPA – mensadores managed by AMPA directly, or indirectly through a company –, mensadores managed by joints and mensadores managed by centres. Seeing this, 2014 was the beginning of a whole process of seeing what the situation was, because before that it was not known who managed each fooder. First, to see what the situation was, and from here, start talking to the different agents to ensure different things. The first, the quality of the service. Then, the security of the service: you make reference to many of the things we have to guarantee; it is a demanding service, therefore, we also have to ensure that it is not contracted in any way and that it has secured and does not harm anyone. I'm a service sustainability. Sometimes we talk as if Catalonia is the same and the reality is very different: we have comma with very small municipalities – fooders of only two or twenty students – and, in the same region, fooders with one hundred or two hundred students, and precisely the fact that a local council can manage it makes the two fooders sustainable. Therefore, it has every sense, too, that you do it as an administration, that it is closest to the territory, and that you can or can join or gather. There are also many AMPAs that do these services, and obviously every time they want to affect the decision about the fooder's service. What are we doing? - You said so too. First of all, talk to the different administrations – local councils and joint ventures –, also with the directions, also with the AMPAs, also with the enterprises of the educated. And we have formed, as you know, a working group, the commission with the local councils, the Catalan Association of Municipalities, the Catalan Federation of Municipalities, and, as we did with the scholarships, we are in a whole process of joint reflection. We are very optimistic, because they are very clean administrations, they know better than anyone who serves and needs them, and because in this very working group we were able to make some great pacts for what he does at the grocery store. So, we're sure we can get to a good port on both services. If we look a little further beyond Catalonia, in other autonomous communities, there are many different models: there are autonomous communities that make a centralized contract of all the beggars of that community, there are no others that leave it centralized in the municipalities, and there are no others, like Catalonia, that have a very different reality. Therefore, what we also do is analyze the various models to see the bonds, or not, of each of the possibilities. In Catalonia, as we have said, we have taken care of the different stakeholders to agree on a model that gives quality and security, that gives transparent criteria in the contract of the service, that gives good attention to the student and, also, an adequate cost to the families. Sometime we have put it on the table: Catalonia is of the autonomous communities with the highest price of fooder, under the Balearic Islands, only, but far, for example, of communities– in Catalonia we remember that it is 6,20_euros– as can be Cantàbria, with 4,84_euros; Madrid, 4,82_euros; Andalusia, 4_euros and mig; Valencia, 4,25_euros. Currently, as he explained, this working group is already out with representatives of the regional councils, the ACM and the federation to be effects of consensus positions in this matter. And, as we have also said, we have been talking and working groups will also be working with the APA federations, with the business associations of the sector, so as to broaden the consensus on these new decrees, since the department's will is that it is a regulation that incorporates the different points of view and the different interests, because we have to take into account that here there are different interests, all legitimate, but of all the parts. This decree, for our part, also wants to lower the new criteria incorporated in the public contract law, obviously, as a result of the transposition of the Community Public Contract Directive for the service of persons, in order to pay special attention to social contract, and will also incorporate the adaptation to the public transparency law, in order to ensure the traceability of the awards resulting from these public contract processes in the field of beggars, not only to make it more transparent but also to make it safer. As you have said, in the educational centres the food service, and the time that is associated with this time of food, is already integrated into the education project; this does not reverse the decree of 96, but it has been years in Catalonia that the food service is integrated into the education project of each centre. Therefore, the school manager is a part of the education project and, as such, it is necessary to guarantee equal access to all the students I want, fulfilling the principle of fairness of our system. And, according to the term, the food service also reinforces – and you have explained – the actions that the social services do, which are the ones that have the competence to ensure the right of people to live decently through the coverage of their needs, as indicated by the Law of Social Services. As a result, food aid is an important resource that is attached to the resources available to social services to ensure that basic needs are covered. Now on this first turn I won't have time, but very well known were the important changes that were made in the eating aid model. If we want to guarantee equal access to the service of school fooder and transport, we have to change the system of fooder scholarships. So it was, it was consensual with the association, it was consensual with the federation, with the local councils, and we approved all of the new criteria that were an important change for what makes the conception of food aid. We have gone further and what we have done has also been, from the Resolution, from this Parliament, on the situation of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response, a second modification for this course in which the flexible tram is removed and the access shields are raised, which has made more people complete the requirements and which can have the corresponding help. There is no point in saying that the only criteria that are taken into account to guarantee the fooder and the school transport do not follow the income but simply change the municipalities. This creates – you have also said – very unfair situations, because we have one municipality on the side of the other, a population change and a food and free transport, and, on the other hand, we have villages, rural nuclei, with very long areas of the municipality, which do not have these food aid. What's our position, asked us, respect this? So, just to be first of all the income and then, in any case, the distance, which determines the help. And with this we will complement precisely what this Parliament has approved, which is Article 6 of the LEC, which establishes that there must be a system of help that helps in the cost of transportation and food for the student who is in need, in a situation of change of municipalities but who also resides in extended population clusters of school centres, and is financed by public administrations. He asked us some specific questions. First of all, how are we doing in these negotiations? I say this: the first one we have to change is this forecast of the LOE and the LOMCE, so I understand that together this Parliament could urge or ask the Spanish Parliament to change this forecast. From here, obviously, we could set up income support, which is what you feel the most. He's made a note of the ESO's eater. When it's done the compact day, the waiters are not going to treure, the waiters are going to continue. The problem is that there have been no users; therefore, there are many secondary fooders who, having no users, despite having the fooder's service, cannot offer it. Here and at that point we were looking to get intermediate formulas, it was even proposed at some point to share a menu with a much more affordable price and, therefore, that there could be more students, but it wasn't that way. What I want to make in this Parliament is that what we do is work intensively with social services, precisely to guarantee the same opportunities for everyone and that the needy food is covered, which is the obligation that this government has. Tell him that we are currently giving five thousand free mensers to secondary school; therefore, it is not certain that there is no funding nor support to secondary school. And for what he does to transport, in any case, I say it to the replica, because I see that I've run out of time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word "Miss Niubó."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.6.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor, for the answers. That I wouldn't want to leave it either, start, then, recovering the subject of the conditions of public bidding, contracting, which you also mentioned. We believe that it is necessary to ensure once and for all the compliment of the 196/X motion, of this Parliament, on the school teachers, which has already failed, of course, to comply with the March agreement of the Maresme and the Vallès, which, at the beginning of the previous year, the Catalan Court of Contracts of the Public Sector suspended from filing an appeal for the Accelec. The centres and families, directly or through the AMPAs, must be allowed to manage the feeder and participate in the decision making process in accordance with the management model, and we cannot leave the choices out of the election capacity. It is therefore necessary to respect the principles of autonomy of the centre and the proximity of management which, as I said, the agreements signed by those in Maresme and Vallès did not respect. We understand that we cannot include in the bidding days criteria that are out of date such as the volume of business or menus used to ensure that all companies are free to participate in public competitions with equal opportunities. We cannot deprive small and medium-sized enterprises of access to the service, and this means that crediting a certain economic capacity cannot be an entry barrier. It is necessary to address a reform of the public procurement model, in line with European legislation – it has been mentioned – which prioritizes the quality of the service over the price, especially if we are talking about educational services where quality is irrevocable. And in the departures from the contract there might not be enough to believe a hospitality and restoration activity, but it would also be useful to talk about the education service and, therefore, to introduce an appreciation of this service that the most competitive faith meets the sole criteria of the price, which would allow this educational function to be preserved. On the prices, because we are talking about a sector that generates a lot of benefits and therefore generates an important margin of business, you said that we are the autonomous community with a menu price more because, and it's true. And in this sense, I would like to know what is his government's understanding of the regulation of the highest prices. You know perfectly well the High Court's judgment in relation to the decree, we share that there are some minimum standards of quality that could be completed, but do you think that we should talk about recommended prices? Is it the government's will to remove the highest prices or set new criteria for fixing this price? In any case, advise, can you guarantee that the price of the menus will not go up? And to put an end to the subject of the beggar, how do you plan to establish a control of this service? Have they put in place a way to monitor and ensure that the regulations are not incomplete? Do you think it would be appropriate to set up an ad hoc body even within the framework of the school board? And about the high school, you haven't answered me if the year you see the school teachers re-open in high school or not. I understand and understand with the Socialist Group that the first proposal of the hourly reform would be precisely to advance this hour of food in the secondary school, because, as I said, today we are eating in quarters of four and four, and in this sense we think that it is you, it is the government that should assume, therefore, this service, logically. Therefore, I would like to know if I can answer whether they will continue to outsource, to say the least, this service, as it is now. Therefore, I hope that this is a clear issue... that we would be pleased if you could clarify yourself. You were talking about the criteria of income and distance in transport, which we can share. What's going on in the groceries, too? In relation to those concerted centres where students have not had a public place, let's say, in its municipality, but that in change the gratuity arises independently of the income level. Will the income level also be introduced in these cases? On transport, you did not refer to the concrete cases I mentioned to you: the Josep Vicenç Foix, from Rubí, the school of Cerdanyola. And I want to ask you if you can guarantee the support of this school transport service in these cases where it is so clear that today, therefore, until that decree is amended as a non-compulsory school transport service. But will you be able to guarantee this service to the teacher of the course you see? And now yes, to finish: he mentioned the topic of the working group; did he want to ask, counsel, when we can have access to the eraser in which they work, the eraser of the new decree? And just to end up insisting on the need for this new decree, these new decrees are part of it and are the result of a consensus and participation of the educational community, and above all of the educational and social agents involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.7.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, in any case, as many questions have followed, we will try to give you an answer. As far as the school transport of these two cases is concerned, you have already said: it is a non-compulsory school transport. But, listen to me, I think that what we have to agree on is that what we have to guarantee is that no student for economic needs can use a transport. These are not the petitions that are being made, this is not the element that is being taken into account. If you tell me, "Listen to me, do we have to guarantee free transport to everyone? No; we have to guarantee a transport, we have to guarantee access to school for those people who need economics. And that's what's happening. And I think we have to be aware... all are legitimate, respectable interests, but we have to take into account: u, large cities have public transport. Here, in Barcelona, we all have public transport; we transport special education students because they are the students who cannot use public transport. And two, what we have to guarantee – and I honestly believe that in this you and we can agree – is that those people who do not have economic resources can access a transport. And that's what we'll continue to guarantee, because there's no student in Catalonia who, because of his economic condition, can't get into school, and that's what I think we need to continue to guarantee. Second of all, you've made reference to the Mark Accord, and since it's all written down, here I would really like to say a few things, because I know a little bit about it. First of all, there was no barrier to entry to the company. Just what was asked is: "You, like the company, how many menus can you guarantee? Thirty? So, we'll ask him to be able to guarantee it at 30. Obviously, if it can't be worth two cents, it doesn't have to be guaranteed for two cents. Therefore, what was asked of each company in that signed agreement is: "Ecculti'm, you, small, midjana, micro, autonomous or large company, how many menus can you offer? Did he? Is it coming? Fifty? One hundred and fifty? Two cents? Eight hundred? So we obviously asked you, as you said, to secure it as a result of these possibilities. And an autonomist could choose a fooder, two or five, to whom you turned; in no case was there any entry barrier. Also, as you said, it guarantees the quality over the price, because what weighed the most, precisely, was the quality and not the price. And then one of the aspects for which we had an appeal is that the strong agreement was that we could give more points to social entities, because we understand that Catalonia has an important fabric of social entities, of special work centres, that work to ensure access to work opportunities to certain collections. So, this was a point that came up, when I understand that you and we would be absolutely in agreement with that, too. The maximum price: for what it does at the maximum price, which you spoke of recommended price, if we make a recommended price, does it mean that it did not take maximum price? If you don't get the most out of it, do you mean that then any center, any AMPA that I run, any local council can put in the price you want? I think that, in this, we disagree, because if each can put the price you want, it will mean that there will be students who will not be able to access it in the same conditions. Therefore, we understand that there must be a maximum guaranteed price. You asked us: "And have you guaranteed this maximum price? Yes: Years ago, Catalonia's food price was kept in the six-euros with twenty. You know that against this they have also turned to us; they have turned to us and told us that this is too messed up. And we guarantee that with this food price, that if we put it in context you already see that it is of the highest, we can guarantee a good service, as is guaranteed. And just to finish, respect this decree he asked us to do. Look, what we're going to prioritize or try to prioritize is the highest consensus, because here there's a lot of diversity, because here there's a lot of interest and why we want to reach the highest consensus. Of course there will be some time for us to make a decision, if this maximum consent is not possible. We understand that the maximum consensus is not that everyone agrees, but we will try to get the maximum number of interested agents to agree. And what are we going to base it on? First, as for the fooder, in deciding who can manage and under what conditions; that I manage who managed it, there is always a participation of the families; that if it is a public service, what is to be done is to regulate it for the rules of public contract, because everything that you demanded of us, of security, of quality, is guaranteed with a regulation that guarantees the public contract; that it takes into account the territoriality and the differences between the different municipalities, and, above all, also, that you look for the sake of all, because it takes into account that there are differences and that therefore we must guarantee the equality of opportunities. And, for what it does to transport, our understanding has to take into account, first, the distance to the center; then, compatibility with the regular transport, it is already interurban, it is already municipal, because, if not, it means to put public resources or repeat public resources, and it is in function of help. In both cases, in food and transport, we are of the parent who has to take account of the income criterion, and in transport, not only distance, but also income. Believe that we can come to a good agreement, and that's what we're working on, because the relationship we have with the joints and with the entities makes us optimistic about this consensus that we can come to. We will, in any case, pay attention to your petitions, because, either through the federation or through the joints or regional councils that participate, we can take into account your recommendations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.9.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.10.0	...and, if not, we'll do it from here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.11.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about school outcomes]] [[300-00166/11]] The aim of the agenda is to ask the Government about the school results presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Sonia Sierra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.12.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, deputies, deputies. Honourable Counselor, you often repeat the mantra that the Catalan school is a model of success, while there are many data that show that this is not so. The fact that the Catalan school in general is not a success model does not mean that we do not have concrete examples of success, such as that of the Joaquim Ruyra School, which, as you know perfectly well, because it was there, last week was a more than deserved prize. It's true that it doesn't all work well; in fact, it has dropped the school gap and that's good news. But the socio-economic factor still has a much higher impact on school outcomes and social inequalities affect more who is left behind, but the government doesn't make a difference because its only obsession, and they say it clearly, is to repeat the 9-N. According to a report by Save the Children, there is a school income gap according to the origin of the student, and, for example, the student has a mean score 1.2 times higher than the foreigner's student; this difference is the highest of all Spain and the European Union. And we are also the autonomous community where foreign students feel less integrated. Fortunately, there is no determinism because students of foreign or humble origin get worse results, nor for going to a public school or going to a private school, as you said to RAC1. We know this by the results of other countries, but also by autonomous Spanish communities like now Navarre: Navarre has an immigrant population very similar to Catalonia, a 28_percent African and a 26, almost 27_percent American, and despite this Navarre is the third autonomous community resulting in PISA and we are the seven. And we also have examples in our home, as I just mentioned, the case of Joaquim Ruyra. For whom I don't know, Joaquim Ruyra is a school in the barri de la Florida, of the Hospital de Llobregat, where almost 90_percent of students are immigrants, and more still have a live registration all year. Despite this, its results to the basic skills are much above the middle of Catalonia, at the level of the most dearest schools in Catalonia. A centre in an unfavorable environment, with immigrant students, living tuition and the same resources, absolutely the same resources as any ordinary center, gets a lot of results over middle school, and that's why they say the miracle school. But since I didn't really believe in these miracles, I went to see how it worked, and I got lucky, I got the privilege of spending the whole morning as a volunteer at one of their classrooms to see how it works. And, indeed, there is no miracle: there are well-formed teachers who believe in their work and who trust that their students can get as far as they want, and there are students who feel valued and integrated. What the Generalitat does not do, according to the results of PISA, is what does this centre without any special recourse on the part of its department. And, unfortunately, it is not only the immigrant students who get the best results from all of Spain, the same goes with the Spanish speakers, who get the best results from PISA than the Catalans who speak at all socioeconomic levels, and the results are especially far-reaching at the lowest level of solacement. And as with immigrants, they feel less integrated into the school than the rest of the Spanish middle school. We believe in the potential of our students and want to reach the levels of excellence, for example, of Castella and Lleó. According to the results of PISA 2015, Castella and Lleó surpasses all the means of excellence, but also, and this given is very important, of fairness. Castle and Lleó has the level of Asian countries and has an excellent pupil ratio higher than the average of the European Union and the OECD. But what's still more important: it doesn't leave students behind. I know he'll tell me that the composition of Castella and Lleó is very different from that of Catalonia, and it's true, it's all right, but the example of Joaquim Ruyra who previously explained to us that the fact of being an immigrant or a humble class are not impediments to excellence. Another example would be the Community of Madrid. Madrid also has 15_percent of immigrants, but what doesn't have Madrid are barracks, and we have more than a thousand. And what Madrid does have is English as a vehicle language and much better results than Catalonia to PISA: in the case of reading, there are twenty points more than Catalonia, and in the case of science, twelve. And Madrid has another very positive result, which is the autonomous community where the lowest and highest results have less difference, that is, it is a much more equitable system than ours. What do you think you're doing to reverse the situation, Counselor? What do you intend to do because we have some excellent results, such as Castella and Lleó, Madrid or Navarre? Will he say again that in Madrid they have more private schools and more students of South American origin? I quote his words, which he said on 7 September to RAC1: "The social composition of Madrid has nothing to do with that of Catalonia. Cultural and family capital do not have other autonomous communities. The percentage of private schools in Madrid is higher than in other autonomous communities. And yes, it's true that Madrid has immigration, but another percentage is South American countries, so the same language and culture. Fi of the date. So, well, since you're talking about South American origin students, another Catalan differential fact: Catalan students who come from South American countries still feel less integrated... I remember, huh? : all immigrants feel less integrated than the Spanish medium. So, well, those who come from South American countries still feel less integrated than those who have foreign languages. This does not go to another autonomous community in Spain. Why are you here, Counselor? But the data I've given so far are not the only ones that warn us of the lack of fairness and equal opportunities of the Catalan school. In the city of Barcelona, for example, one student from Ciutat Vella has eight times more risk of school failure than one from Sarrià; I repeat this: eight times. Is this a success model? Maybe for you, not for us. Does the Catalan school guarantee social cohesion? For you, perhaps, for us and for the rest of the world, no, because in education, when it comes to social cohesion, what it is about is equity and equal opportunity. If a student in Old Town has eight times more chances of school failure than a student in Sarria, that means we have no equity or equal opportunity, that is, we have no social cohesion in education. These data from Barcelona are directly related to the per capita income of these districts. And what does that mean? So that in Catalonia the socioeconomic situation of families determines to a great extent the success or failure of pupils. We have, therefore, a system that does not guarantee equity or equal opportunities, that is, does not guarantee social cohesion. In Catalonia education is not a social elevator, but perpetuates situations of poverty and inequality. I'll do it again, huh? : eight times more opportunities for school failure between one district and another. And the worst of all is that these data are time-cronified and don't change the situation. These data are also directly related to schooling from zero to three years: while in Old Town only 26.7_per_cent of students go to school in Bressol, in Sarria they arrive at 58_per_cent. We presented a motion to solve this problem, it was approved with the vote against your party, but they do not absolutely do so, and the assumption was that they allocated zero euros to schools in Bressol. And this lack of equity and equality of opportunity is not only given to the city of Barcelona, but to all of Catalonia, and we have different examples to many towns like Terrassa, Sabadell, Cerdanyola, Badalona, Tarragona, Lleida and Girona. And I don't say it, the Greuges Synod said it, which has already warned, moreover, of the segregation between the public school and the concert, but also in the public school, which gives place to a triple network in a supposedly public and free system, because there are centers with public money that demand quotas for different activities for students. We also have the issue of transportation, which Mrs Niubó has already mentioned enough, and it is another of the impediments because the school is completely free. It is obvious that his government does not think of all Catalans, and that is why we have so high numbers of school failures in very concrete sectors of society. We do want to work for all Catalans, and before the inaction of his government we will present a motion to promote equal opportunities, because we want all students to come from where they come, and they can get as far as they want. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.13.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Sierra. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.14.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if you want to work because the education system guarantees equal opportunities for everyone in Catalonia, what you should do is look at the data with less ideology and more depth. But, listen to me, that Catalonia's Catalan education system is better, it's not an opinion; it's an evidence and it's a reality. And I don't think we need to know how hard to recognize it, first of all, for the work of the teachers; but, second of all, because we have an educational system that works, and, third of all, because the educational policies of the last two years, and here I include governments of different colors, they are working and they have worked, because the data – the internals, the externals, the evaluations – indicate what they indicate, and it is good to combine them, analyze them in order to express an opinion. You've been talking about school breakdowns. Miri, I'm giving you ESO graduate data. The 2005-2006 course, do you know what percentage of students are graduating? 78_per_cent. This system that says it doesn't guarantee equal opportunities, and it doesn't work and all that, you know, course 14-15, 78_per_cent where it went? At 87,7. That's fourth graders who don't graduate and now graduate. And precisely where it has improved more is in this socio-economic sector with more difficulties. We look at the fit fee for fifteen years. Do you know the year 2006-2007 how many 15-year-olds were on the course they were looking for? 68_per_cent. Do you know what course 15-16 is? 77_per_cent. Repeat data: course 14-15, only 5.8_percent of students in Catalonia repeats; it is the lowest repetition rate in the entire Spanish State. Let's look at early school drop-out, that percentage of the population divided to twenty-four years that doesn't have a post-compulsory secondary title, and that's actually a brake on the social ascent. We don't just want our students to finish ESO, we just want our students to continue studying, and they just keep studying those who don't, because the students with the most skills continue, but those who don't have them don't. So, miri, Catalonia has made a spectacular jump in early school drop-out: we passed from 32.9_per_cent we had in 2008 – 32.9_per_cent, almost 33_per_cent – of students who did not continue to study after finishing ESO, to a 17.8 in the first quarter of 2017. This is the great work that our centres have done, but that has done the education system to guarantee just what you asked, and that we agree, that education is a factor of cohesion and social ascent. Because, look, in this country, and we don't have to know how hard to recognize it, despite the great economic crisis, it's true that economic differences have grown and much, but the educational ones have done it the other way around. The educational differences exist, of course, I recognize them, but we also need to be able to look at the evolution that we have had. If a part of a 33_per_cent drop-out and up to 17,8_per_cent, is that it has made a great effort as the system; a system that allowed more than 22_per_cent to fail and that at this time already has 88_per_cent of students who continue and, therefore, approve the ESO, which is graduated into ESO and not fail, is that it has made a great effort, and it has done it precisely in these circles, which is more complicated. You set up a centre such as, for example, a lot of centres in Catalonia, which guarantee cohesion and social ascent. So let's look at the data and, as a minimum, recognize the path we've made. What's to get better? I agree. What do we have to try to get this all the way? I agree. But what's not fair is that we say that the model is embedded, when what the Catalan education system is doing is better, so we don't have to see the evolution, we don't start from scratch every year, the students have been in the system for many years. Every year we're getting better and we want to keep getting better. But we don't only have these figures, we have more: the population of twenty-two to twenty-four years with post-compulsory studies: 2008 was 59.5; 2016, 73.8 – we went from 59.5 to 73.8. What is the percentage of the population between thirty and thirty-four years with higher education? So, we went from 38.7 in 2006 to 43.1 in 2016. But we also have internal data that shows that we have improved in results and equity. So far I've told him external data; internal data: the assessment of basic skills, what you say they don't believe, but don't give... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] At some appearance you told me that these assessments of ESO put them in question, of basic skills. If it's not like that, I'm glad, but I assure you, I'm growing up... I heard that in my later appearance. Listen to me, in the tests of basic skills, at the last few girls, in català, castella, angloss and mathematics at the beginning we are already about 70, which is the level to asolar: 74.5, català; 74.1, castella; 73.7, angloss; 77.9, mathematics. But in secondary education we also, for the first time, have surpassed this level of 70 in English, we have surpassed it, with 76.9 in Catalan language; 76.5, the Castilian, and, for the first time, 68.1 – it was the first time that it is ugly – in scientific competence. Therefore, it is true – it is true – that both the results..., but above all fairness, improve. And exactly the same, if we look at PISA. Look, at PISA, we always make a related case, because PISA neither the fan of all the students nor the fan of every year all the students nor all the centers; therefore, PISA what gives us is an orientation on how the Catalan education system went. And it's true that with PISA we don't find ourselves at all – it's true – but do you know where we are, countries with..., at all? In fairness. If you take the press file that served the top rating board, you'll see that we're not as high as the score... Of course, we are on top of the Spanish medium, the OECD medium, the European Union medium. Although we are above all, we do not find ourselves at all in results, but we are among the most well-positioned in fairness, and that makes us feel, therefore, the truth is that very and very satisfied, to continue working on it, obviously: we want to follow, that it comes all the way. And what have we done? You asked: "Listen to me, and what do you do? Apart from talking about the process, I assure you that I speak a lot of education, basically only about education. And what have we done? So, look, in these assumptions, that they didn't want to give us support, what we did is prioritize the centers with the most need, give more resources to whom they need the most, because the studies tell us that we have to deal differently with what is different and what has the most need. And how did we do it? So, look, I'm making special and extraordinary endowments to high-complexity centers, not only in teachers, but also in support endowments such as childhood education techniques or social integration techniques. But we've also lowered the rates in these centers. They know that the agreement we reached on these assumptions was ratio 22 in the centres of maximum complexity and ratio 27 in the centres, in ESO, of maximum complexity. We have also increased support units for special education. We have also established, for the first time, specific training itineraries, that vocational training adapted to pupils with mild and moderate disabilities. But we have also increased other specific resources: the EAP, the CREDA, the Credic, the fooder's scholarships, etc. So, we're working to donate..., and improve the fairness of the system. You made reference to the differences according to the socioeconomic origin, until you put the language in it. Miri, PISA, the one who points out in all his reports is that it is not possible to untangle the language of the sociocultural situation of the family. Therefore, it would be well, in these assessments that we make, to take into account that the language has to see..., the language can not be winged from the sociocultural situation of the family. And you want me to tell you a good bit of fairness? If we look at the different autonomous communities and look at the Spanish middle, the 25th quartile, that is, the 25_percent of the students who made PISA who are in more complicated situations are above the Spanish middle. Mitjana spanyola, the quartile 25 is located in 420 in the students of immigrant origin; in Catalonia, in 440. So, our system that guarantees is cohesion, it's elevator and it's equal opportunities. What do we have to keep working? That's right. But, listen to me, honestly, we take the data, look at them as rigorously as possible, and we recognize once and for all that our education system is better. Millions and it has to go on improving, but what cannot be is that with all these data, and excuses 'because today there have been many, we can say that our education system does not guarantee neither quality nor fairness, when all the data show the contrary. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.15.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Sierra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Counselor, I have the feeling that you listen to me, but everything that I say for the thirst for its harm happens. I started saying there's a better one and that this is good news, and I did what I did is give objective data from PISA and a report that was made by the Barcelona Assembly. If one district has had eight times more chances of school failure than another, I mean, we don't have one here... it can't be said that equal opportunities are guaranteed, eight times is a lot. Besides, there was a class that the student from Ciutat Vella's public school went to college, this is another terrible fact. Then this is PISA, huh? , it's all PISA –, worse results in feelings of rebuy, both in immigrants and in Spanish speakers. You gave me some data, but you didn't comment on my data. I insist, they're objective data from PISA, and if no data I've given is false, tell me what you have and look at them. He then spoke of the subject of language, which is something that asks PISA. In the case of Spanish speakers, they get worse results than Catalan speakers: double, huh? , we are talking about twice as many school failures between Spanish speaking and Catalan speaking, at all socioeconomic levels; if this happens to all socioeconomic levels, it means something else happens. And, on the other hand, if you say, because it's what PISA says, that you can't unplug the language of the socioeconomic situation, what you say is that you give by the fact that this socioeconomic situation has to be perpetuated and we have to resign ourselves with worse results. You resign because, I said before, you don't have the illusion, you don't have the strength to transform the teaching; we do, we are willing to change these results and all the students have the same opportunities regardless of their origin. You are in line with the results of PISA, I insist, because they have neither the will nor the strength to change the situation; we do not, we want the levels of excellence of Castella and Lleó, Madrid and Navarre. And we obviously rejoice in the positive results, if this is the first one I have said in my intervention, but we want to emmirate ourselves in the successful models, already from here, from Catalonia, like Joaquim Ruyra School, as the good results to PISA from other autonomous communities. But it's that, besides, we don't stay on the diagnostics and the criticism: we recognize what's good, go to Catalonia, go to Castella and Lleó, go to La Rioja, and start from here our proposals. If we want to improve the teaching in Catalonia, the first one we have to do is give everyone the same opportunities. And that means, for example, that textbooks must be free. And don't tell us, you say a Save the Children report that you say you need to get better: it seems that Save the Children are as ideological as I am and look at the data, too, with ideology, but they have decided that the Catalan education system needs to get better, because it's because you can't buy text books, and there are students who can't and go to school without text books, can be the iniquitous of a Brit. Also, the results of the diagnostic assessments must be analysed well, those that follow I said are no use for re– when my young man sees that this is not very well heard, what you say, but well–, and they must be analyzed in order to be able to give solutions where the results are lower, and a follow-up must be made to detect the first problems in order not to let anyone else go. A plan must also be made so that education from zero to three years can reach everyone. And we made the proposal, it was approved by Parliament with the vote against its party, and the result is that they have allocated zero euros to education of zero three years. How do you want us to support these zero-euro assumptions for child education? We've got to get rid of the barricades too. You say we're getting better, we're getting better. Subject: In barracks, each year of his mandate we have more barracks than the previous year. We also put forward a proposal in this sense, it was also approved and they have not done absolutely well. Students' ratios must also be reduced and the schools must be equipped with the most teaching and auxiliary schools. Trilingualism must be guaranteed, as do private schools. And we defend and trust in the good teacher's task, as demonstrated by the success, for example, of Joaquim Ruyra: where his department is not above we have initiatives such as those that show that all students can get as far as they want, come from and have the language they have, but to get there they need the right tools. I repeat: it is very clear that his Government has neither the illusion nor the strength to improve teaching. We do have this illusion and this strength, and that is why we will present a motion with measures to end the lack of equality and equity in the Catalan school. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.17.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member of the Commission, "The system is improving but it is a disaster," she told us at the first intervention. "Oh, we recognize it's getting better, but it's a disaster. And it's not a disaster, I've donated all the data that proves it's not a disaster. Miri, I insist: you only talk about PISA, PISA – PISA, PISA, PISA. PISA neither the fan of all centers, nor the fan of all students nor every year the fan of the same centers. So I'm talking about proof of basic skills. PISA not up to two thousand students, that the fan; the basic competitions every year are 140,000 students. Therefore, I understand that we can be much more informed about the evidence of basic skills than PISA. But, listen'm, not pateixo, I'm talking about PISA. PISA: the result of Catalan students, for the first time – for the first time – by the OECD mid-year, the European Union and the Spanish State – by the first time, by all. I, listen, I took his file. I'm having a hard time, huh? I'm wearing graphics now. [[The councillor shows the chamber a full in which various graphics are reproduced.]] The evolution of PISA in all these years: the system is a disaster but PISA is able to achieve results. It's the autonomous community... You say, "Listen to me, why don't you look at other autonomous communities? Maybe the other communities are looking at us. This is the best that Catalonia has done in scientific competence; look, Catalonia, this one here, the most improved. You say to us, "Listen to me, why don't you look at other communities? Quina? Castella and Lleó, what's the same? We're looking at Extremadura, who's down nine points? Look at Andalusia, what's down to thirteen? Look at Asturias, what's down seven? Let's look at the Basque Country, what's down twenty-three? Listen to me, of course we look at other autonomous communities, but here, for example, it would be good for other communities to look at us. I did not bring it there for countries, but for countries, together with Portugal, we are the most grown of all the European Union. So, I mean, the system's getting better and better. And a theme that worries me: the theme of equity. Miri, I brought them results. [[The counselor shows a full camera in which a graphic is reproduced.]] These here are us. It's true, we're not among the best; I don't want to assemble other models like Singapore and company. We're not the best, but we're fine: from here, from all these countries, we're up here. But look where we are in equity: in equity we are much higher. Percentage of low-level students in Catalonia, 16_per_cent; look at France : 22_per_cent; Italia, 23_per_cent; Luxembourg, 26_per_cent, and do not shoot downstream: there are countries that have 38 and 40_per_cent. Therefore, we are of the highest in equity. And, listen, it's not a center, it's a lot, in Catalonia. I would appreciate it if we talked about all the centres in Catalonia that have great results in all the trials, not just one, all of them, and obviously with the support of the Generality. I told him what we're doing: we're giving more resources to the centers that have more complexity, just to guarantee fairness, which is what we're guaranteeing. What's to get better? Clearly, I'd like to know that, in the 16th, tinguésim accounts, so, miri, you know what the tea is, Finnia? At 11_per_cent. Nor are we so far: 11_per_cent, Finland; 16_per_cent, Catalonia, in these trials. Do we want to be Finland in this? And so, and being the first, but we're up to everything in terms of fairness, we're not down to everything, so let's stop talking about our system as being not equity. You spoke of a sense of belonging, and you only spoke of a sense of belonging of immigrant students. But, listen to me, at Nadius students also the sense of relevance is very low in Catalonia. But you know what I'm saying? It is that Spain, in this yes, is up to everything in the sense of relevance, look. [[The counselor shows a full camera in which a graphic is reproduced.]] Now he was putting it in reverse. [[Pause.]] Spain is at an all-time high in relevance – not in results, in relevance yes – and Catalonia is at the height of many other countries such as Finland, Sweden, Belgium or France, or even above Canada. But, listen, the sense of relevance can also put it in its place. Do you know what they're asking? PISA are results, it's an exam, make an assessment. The meaning of relevance is very subjective; they ask, for example, "Do you make friends easily at school? Are you all right? Well, "you don't, talk to students. "Does it seem to other students that you're doing well? Clearly, this is an important indicator, but we have to bear in mind that it is based on a fact that students are interested in. And, listen, obviously we will have to work, but know that Catalonia is on the same levels as other European countries that you consider to be of reference. So, listen, I appreciate you working to improve the education system. But then, if you really want to work to improve the education system, give support to the policies that we are doing, such as giving more support to the centers that most need it, giving autonomy to the centers. If there are centres in Catalonia like you said – and I repeat it: there are many others that have good results in fairness and excellence – it is precisely because the education system allows them, and it is good, and gives them support, and works for the autonomy of centres and works for direct teams responsible for the project of centres. This is what we have to do and not try to take only data that suits us and not think about the data that favors us. And, look, he put down the Community of Madrid... he put in some of my statements that I said, it's true. I took the article of the Miracles Pérez Oliva, which is not very suspicious of being favorable to this Government, and says exactly the same, because we cannot treat all immigration as if it were the same: it has nothing to do with seeing a person who sees from a country that shares the same language, the same culture, and you have been a master, that a person who has to change language, has to change writing and has to change culture. But do you know what guarantees our system and evidence...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.19.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.20.0	Let me, President, just get this over with. Do you know what our evidence proves? That in immigrants who start our education system at P3, differences in educational success do not differ from those born here. This means that as our students spend the most years in our education system...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.21.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.22.0	...more successful schoolgirls have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.23.0	It should be over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.24.0	No, I'm done. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.25.0	The next item is the question to the government about a university for everyone and without prejudice, presented by the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is. [[Asking the Government about a university for everyone and without precariousness]] [[300-00165/11]] To expose her, Mr. Joan Giner has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.26.0	Well, good morning, President. MPs, MPs, the ones I'm in the chamber, counselor... so, it's been a good morning to talk about universities, the truth. And we're back here, this year maybe we're insisting on the subject, and it's that we basically have the will to put the university on the political agenda. And we look at a few weeks that maybe they're a little mogul: there's a rumor coming out of the universities, that's good news: it's a rumor of movement. The movement is a motor of change or prelude to this, and what we see for the first time this year is how this engine has gone out into the street and represents a desire for freedom, and there is no greater desire for freedom than who lives fighting transforming the reality that surrounds it. I will go on to list the successes that have passed this week, that have passed several, these two weeks, and perhaps from the council they have the office placed too much and do not see what goes on in the street, because they have passed successes before the passivity, omission and silence of this council. So, I'm going to explain them - there, to see if it's really that he hasn't sensitised about the subject or that he hasn't got the rum-rum that runs down the streets. So, well, simple and concrete, during this week the students have come back to the street; they said they have come back because it is not the first moment. They went out to the street, they called waves, they made demonstrations; waves with certain success, really, and they made demonstrations for the streets of Barcelona. And there's one thing I'm surprised about, and we're not talking about what happened on the night of May 11th, but there's one thing I'm surprised about, which is that it turns out that the claim that the students were bringing this year, maybe they decided by assembly? Perhaps it was a claim that had been made in a "camp to the Autonomous to see if the people...? No, it turns out that the claim they brought this year there, on the banner, written, had been approved for the Parliament of Catalonia for a year; hey! Two times, it had been approved by the Parliament of Catalonia. So what we see are students who actually claim something so simple that it is claimed here every day, and above all from the government, that is the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia. And what we see is that this demand for common sense is an answer to how? So, how it went: with silence, with omission, with passiveness, but also with strokes, impulses, violence and repression. Do you think this is the way to talk to the university community? It's surprising, it's really surprising because ultimately governing is a responsibility and, as Evo Morales said, "in politics it's very important not to steal, not to lie and not to be loose. And this thing of stealing and lying, I don't know, counselor, but this thing of being loose... Because if we really want the university to be on the agenda of this country, if we really want to give priority to the university, we don't have to hit or hit anyone who claims something as simple as the sovereignty of this Parliament, but you should be at the demonstration with students demanding that this government, once and for all, lay the resources and priority that the university deserves. Perhaps some of us believe with a firm belief that institutions should be the spearhead of social demands. Perhaps some believe that institutions should only represent a few – a few – very few, or certain interests; in this they do not count on us. But it doesn't end here, Counselor, because speaking to the students' representatives, to the students of the Ceucat, who are from representational bodies, we have seen that the Secretary of Universities told the members – not us, because he hasn't told us anything about Parliament – that maybe the reform applied or, say, the emena of the Catalan University Law that we approved three months ago does not apply as it is written, that maybe the theme of reforming the sections of the composition of the registration of the equity scholarships – the poorly named ‘equity grants' – will not apply because they don't know how much money they can spend there. Well, I, uh... one thing is for me to come here and be the grumpy dwarf. You're not fulfilling the parliamentary mandate, you're incomplete and you're disobeying this Parliament, which you're also saying on the street... But you're not doing that is not doing the Catalonian University Law, because, if you don't, you won't find us, at the opposition, that too, huh? He will not find the students, who will also: he will find an organized society that will also go looking for him in jutjats. Just 't, the last time I came out here I told him that he'd come looking for the street, so now I'll tell him that he'll come looking for the jutjat. Do you want your warrant to be remembered for that? Do you really think it's a way to deal with this problem? Home, in the end, I understand... and I would understand, and I'm a comprehensible person, right? "Look, the government doesn't give me priority in this, it doesn't give me a chance, university isn't a priority for this government, but I do think it should be. All right, perfect. So, let's put together a demonstration and see if it gets in front of it, and I don't send the police, nor do you cop, start, rape, silence, passivity, and omission, which is what we found. Well, more things, still... - and I don't know if we're gonna make it to time, huh? Then I have a reply. Speaking of masters, which is the spearhead of the liberal university system, how can we get students to finish their career by posing a master? - What? Much more because and with many fewer places. It turns out – for example, in the master that enables the right to be a lawyer – that there are 1,400 places of degree, and then there are only four hundred places of master. It turns out... because friends and workers of this chamber have to bring their children, for example, to the UOC, which is a university with private degrees, or to masters worth eight_000 euros, because their children can become lawyers. So... and I'm not saying you're going too far, huh? : if you ask about the chamber, you will find some worker who passes you this problem. So, what kind of model are we walking? What model do we build if this is a woman like that? Here's a problem. Maybe it's not fly, huh? , that in the end..., or you want there to be a class bias in access to university career, because it turns out that before Bolonya's application all went ahead, and in four years you can access the right; now no: you have to make a master that is worth three times the price, with the push of materials, and on, if you're not 30, 40_percent of graces you like, you have to pay almost 80,000 euros per course to be able to be a lawyer. And that doesn't just happen in law school, it happens in other teachers. And that's one thing I want to ask you: if you don't want to apply the scholarships to these masters and there's this problem, well, here, in the end, we don't think the government of the best, which, of that, we've already forgotten all of us; no, no, the society of the best, huh? The best they can afford. This is not meritocratic people, nor is it a vision of transversality or education as a social elevator, which before the education counselor defended. He'll advise, maybe they'll argue, so they don't defend the same educational model. In any case, we don't want to be grunt Pepitos, and tell them three better proposals that we want to explain to you, because you see that we are also purpose. What you could do now: automate, for example, the transfer of Equity scholarships, that you don't have to send and send and send; we see that there are 40_percent of students who don't access these Equity scholarships for this. For example, to review the shields of the fairies, more than just because in shield 3, 4 and 5 there is no one. Fantastic, a fantastic system: it makes six shields and there are only people at 1 and 6; fantastic, sure it is super well done. So let's get to work. And the other is the management of the heritage shields, which turns out that most students... – or we suspect it, because they haven't given us the data, yet, months ago we've been waiting for them –, that for the heritage shields there are many students who are left out of this. If I run out of time and then we'll go on with this, which is a subject that has fabric. But I want to comment on another thing that's going on this week, to see if from his desk, which is so high, he hasn't listened to it, that there's been a lot of teachers this week at the UB. And I, worried, worried, because I didn't get there and I didn't know, I went to talk to teachers from other universities, who were angry, motivated, there was a rum-rum, because they also wanted to call a vague. Therefore, I am advancing it – I am not a union representative, but I am advancing it – that will have vague teachers at all universities. And why? So as not to complete the sovereignty of this Parliament? Less or less. Look, I'll explain it to you; deputies of Junts for the Yes, I'll explain it to you because maybe they'll surprise you, too, the one that happens here. It turns out that Mariano Rajoy's People's Party in 2012 approved a royal decree – I also explained it to you – that it said that associate teachers had to limit their teaching hours, they had to limit them with a fork, higher or lower, it turns out that it was that. So, well, it turns out that there are universities that apply this at a point in the fork that allows, for example, that the UB there are almost a hundred..., there may be a hundred associate professors who are welcomed in the next few months. And that's a problem, especially for the generational replenishment. But here is not the problem of everything – here is not the problem of everything. The problem is that a vice-rector tells the UB student representative that the Directorate General is putting pressure on them with funding to implement this reform. That's very hard, Counselor – that's very hard. And it's hard because it's actually doing this song with funding, like it was with Serra Húnter years ago at Catalan public universities. What about the historic college debt? How can it be justified to apply the urgent measures to rationalise public expenditure in the educational field of 2012 at a time when in theory all are emerging from the crisis? - How can it be? But what they are most surprised about – and yes, deputies of Juntes for the Yes, listen to me, please – is that the Generality filed an unconstitutional appeal against this, brought this to the Constitutional Court, the same appeal that is used to pressure the universities. You know why? U, for possible invasion of the powers of the Generality; two, for university autonomy, and, three, for failure..., for the ability to dictate this law of the Spanish State. And now we're applying it in a system where we don't have young teachers, in a system where we have a precariousness of brutal teaching, and over pressure on universities with funding. Well, it's getting clearer, huh? I don't know if you don't agree with each other, but the sovereignty of this Parliament and the university autonomy must be things that need to be defended, and it doesn't seem like that's what it is. Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.28.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, look, the university is on the political agenda, and that's because it's a country priority, too, even though you don't seem to have it and yet you want to deny it with your statements, because it's not true. Because a great effort has been made, a great effort has been made to place the university as a leading institution; in fact, when the inquiries are made to the citizenry of the CEO – of the Centre d'Estudis d'Opinio – he considers the universities to be one of the most prestigious institutions, and they are. And, in addition, we have the will that the university continues to feel, and we continue to feel an axis of future through the will to bring forward a national pact for universities; a national pact for universities that incorporates a dialogue among all actors – all – and all administrations to determine who is the future of these universities, the future, also, thinking about what, what is the mission of the university, what is to be its programming and teaching, what is to be the role of research and innovation, and, also, what is to be territorial social action. So, in this area, what, but also what: how to treat and how to treat..., the workers, the teaching staff and the researcher, the administration staff and you serve, and also the students. And how, with governance, with organization, with quantity, with transparency and also with retention of accounts. And then, the amount, too: with the necessary resources, as is this public funding, as is the pricing system, as is the scholarship system and as is the aid system. So, look, this is the intention that we have as the government to collide, with all the universities and with all the participation of all the sectors that are directly involved, as well as the students, as well as the teachers, as well as the administration staff and servants, in the definition and program of the future. So, the university's on the government's agenda? Yeah. Is university a government priority? Yeah. Is the university, is it, and we work on the political agenda? Also. Escort, therefore, neither passivity, nor omission, nor silence in what there is, in what there is neither in recriminations. We have always been..., and, in fact, we do and practice it, the dialogue with the students – always – and with all the collectors – always. What we won't do will be dialogue with those who press, coerce or, too, curse the freedom of others, huh? And the representation of the students has a lot of people. The majority representation of the students, in this vague..., look what they did, look at what are the results of the waves at the different universities and see what was the representativeness of the students who went out on the street or forced certain students to wander. And if they force themselves, and if they condition themselves, and if they restrict freedom – freedom – of other students, obviously, there must be, therefore, the intervention that there must be, in this case, a democratic police, which is, like that of the Squad Coast. So, listen, dialeg? Yeah. Dialog with conditions, yes; Dialog with coercion, no. That's it. So, in this, there is. You were talking about the right-hand master offer. Listen: the exit of a graduate in Dret doesn't have to be the free exercise of the profession – it doesn't have to be. Therefore, the coincidence of the exact name between those who arise... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You said it – you said it. The coincidence of the name that emerges, exact, between undergraduate students and the master is not, but there is a master offer, there is enough master offer, and there is enough master offer for the public. And, of course, we will complete what is approved by the University Law. So now that there's the negotiation of the own price decree, the university tax decree, which is approved in the law, we'll do it. And, it's true, you're summoned on the 24th that we'll explain how he's going and how he's going to articulate. How will this be articulated in certain groups, because the Equity scholarships are for the groups that have it, let's say, more..., because the lowest income streams can have an additional reduction; also because there is beginning to be Equity scholarships in the masters, which makes it relatively short of time, that we would not want it to be higher than two courses, there could also have been the presence and access in equal conditions of Equity scholarships also to masters. And that's what we'll do, and that's what we'll negotiate, and that's what we'll negotiate with the entire university community, also with Ceucat, and we'll explain it to all of you, to all of the representatives of the parliamentary groups. Miri, you're talking about resources. An effort has been made – an effort has been made – because later years it has recovered and increased the budget for universities of public assumptions, and it has been done. And the assumptions and resources... listen, sometimes I have the feeling that when you speak, instead of being in Parliament, you seem to be at the scene of the Badalona's Zorrilla Theatre when you make Li-Chang's magic memorial: it's true—it's true—because it seems to me that resources are taken away... there's nothing here, nothing here, and then there's resources. And resources can't be invented. Look, the resources are limited, they're the ones. And we can't say, "Listen, how do we want this, now we're taking resources. It's not like that, it's like that. And more so, like Parliament, and like... we're in position, aren't we? , and we've just arrived, for example, at an agreement on guaranteed income. If this is the priority, if we allocate a lot of resources here, there will be resources that cannot be allocated to other places. These are the agreements, and this is politics, and these are the priorities and what we need to prioritize. You sometimes seem to think that everything is possible and that everything can be done, and, listen, no, it's not true, because... I'll give you other examples, examples that you can also consider more appropriate. Miri, maybe Mayor Colau at the Barcelona City Council thought he might eliminate the charges: he didn't do it – he didn't do it. Maybe it was also thought that who would manage electricity at the Barcelona City Council, so it wouldn't be Endesa, and it's Endesa, huh? And one thing is willfulness and another thing is reality, and another thing is how it's done. Listen, we're here. Or with the bressol schools, also – also – that there is also a social pricing system as there is at the university with the equity scholarships. And the entrance of people to university continues to feel an entrance where those people who don't have resources or who can't afford the scholarship system are there. We want that no student can be excluded from university access due to lack of resources, that's it. And if we're talking about this equity – if we're talking about this equity – huh? , is guaranteed access. And that's what we do: more than 40 percent of high school students in Catalan public universities have some type of scholarship or help. This decompensating – decompensating – that, in any case – in any case, there is no student who pays more than 25_percent of the cost; in fact, we do not get there, because we do not get to the average cost: the cost ends up being 19 and mig per cent, so it is less than 20_percent. Listen, and more importantly, if we look at socio-economic indicators of the families of university students, we are in a scene where the rate of access to the university of students of families of uneducated or primary students is the highest in history: a 35_per_cent. And that's happening today, here today. So, the return pricing model has allowed and facilitated an access and a stay at the university that is the university more than anyone else or more for everyone than ever, huh? , especially among those students with lower returns. And yes, yes: social pricing meant an increase in prices for those students or for those families with higher returns, which allowed them to finance a reduction for those families and for those students with lower returns. And that's what this is and that's the reality of what's going on in our country's university today. And it was done with the effort of all, and also with an effort of all because the increases in public pressure these past years have also followed, despite all the difficulties.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.29.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.30.0	"Coercion: physical force or psychological pressure exerted on someone to force them to say or do something against their will. At UPF there was a popular pass class and a_dinar, at UB as well. There was a picket, yes; it turns out that making a picket is a legitimate use of force, in this case a legitimate use of claim, including according to the Congress of the State, fix you, huh? Here they start making attachments. This is not coercion. It seems, in the end, that the poor students who were sitting in Via Laietana at one o'clock in the morning some 11 more coercion without the well-armed security forces that were around: said vans, there was – I don't know how much you cost this device, huh? Really. « Coercion no, « coercion is not claiming something as simple as the sovereignty of this Parliament; if claiming the sovereignty of this Parliament is coercion, then I do not know what we are doing. Actually, Mr. Counselor, I mean, now she's the most college ever. But I want to teach you something, don't I? « Coercion is the use of physical force. Behind there is a well-bred arm of a student who was 11 May there, which is indeed coercing and using physical strength. I don't see that this has happened to anyone else. So, what example do we give to our students when we teach them that, in the claim before the world moves, before trying to change the reality that surrounds them, we give them silence, omission, violence and coercion? For another band, some theme of relevancy has been left, but first I want to talk about university for everyone, which is the title of this inquiry. More than ever, it's a university for everyone. Today more than ever: when it's more expensive than ever and when we really are... through Bolonya, the materials have pushed a 66 or a 211_per_cent. Today, when in Spain the most cherished subjects are in Catalonia. Today, when 40_per_cent... no, forgive me, I already have the solution: 40_per_cent of the Catalan population is high-income – that's what the counselor says. As the 40_per_cent does not go up to the Equity scholarship, there are a few more that are left on the way to the heritage shields, so it turns out that the 40_per_cent of Catalonia has an income of more than sixty_ thousand euros. Listen, my mother, what are the Communists doing here? We can go home now, if we live in a rich society, man. But that's not true, really, and it's not a university for everyone, it's a university that every time is for less people. It's a university that, if you follow the policy of assimilating it to private university lobby like Cambridge, Harvard and the universities of Israel, we'll find ourselves at the end of the university of the best, and they'll say so. We don't want the university of the best, we want the university for everyone, because the university has to serve because the society grows and not because a few children of entrepreneurs and great tenors at the end feel that in this society, it shouldn't serve for this. A very relevant topic was left: what about the teaching space? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, all right, all right. No, because it seemed to me... that maybe he didn't have time, that's all he had in the rest. On the subject of equity scholarships and masters, I take the word from him, but then he killed him. I'm not used to politics, am I? To do these things. He said: "We will apply the one who poses to the resolution, but the equity scholarships of the masters will have them in two years' time, not the year he sees. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The year he sees. I'll take the word for it, won't I? , which is in the minutes. He just said that the year that there will be fair rides with the bass we agreed to the masters. You also understand that the bass we agreed on is 30_per_cent on the feta bass, huh? , I did not get a 15_per_cent lower on tram 1, but here what I would have to pass is that my career of « telecos, which costs 2,300_euros– that before it consisted of a thousand, only – it would have to cost, for a person on tram 1, 20_per_cent of his price, therefore, about four hundred_euros; here I agree that being social is much reduced. I say this because we can find ourselves surprised; the week we'll talk and see it. And, well, to make a little bit more of... this minute that I'm left with extreme fears that I think we could do too. It turns out that thanks to the opposition, including the CUP at this point, they approved a thousand items in the assumptions, and many of these that we presented were some of the details of the same law in 2012. Yeah, yeah. Remember the day we were all out of Parliament? Well, we've been... a few of us here, huh? ; there are some who – most of them were here – were in fact « Let's stop the Parliament. So, that day they produced cut-outs – they produced cut-outs – and here, in this Parliament, it was approved to reverse them, like, for example, the external labor days and the social foundations of the workers of the UB. When do you intend to implement these measures? If you really want to open the dialog with the unions and actors for the Pla Serra Hunter, we still don't know anything about this, yet... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] At least the unions and the business committees say they don't know anything about it. And finally, a question, because that's how you can, say, flatter the minutes that you have left. We live in a university of old people; or, still, it is not a country for young people, the university, unfortunately, and because of the state and the repositioning fee, I agree. What's the government's plan to reverse this situation?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Giner. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.32.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Giner, then, we'll talk about the teachers, and we'll talk about the precariousness, and we'll talk about how you can get your professional and teaching career started, and we'll talk about how you can consolidate and rejoin a template that – I agree, I agree – is a template that's getting older and that we need to rejoin. There have been times when we couldn't do everything that we would have liked, because unfortunately they put in some repositioning taxes. First it was 0_per_cent, then it was 10_per_cent, then it was 50_per_cent. Now they are 100_per_cent: now they will be able to call and now they will be able to continue convoking places; with this year they will be able to take around two-hundred places to stabilize through the correspondents contests and correspondents out ofinternal places, but with that it is not enough. With a 100_per_cent repositioning rate we won't have enough, because for many years an important boss has been generated. And what we have to do is, for example... You asked: "How can we do that? Miri, now that the general assumptions of the State are being debated in the General Courts, there are parliamentary groups that have presented a message that enables it, just as it has passed with the police, just as it happens with the firefighters, just as it happens with the teachers of primary or secondary education..., so that it is possible to apply a repositioning fee higher than 100_per_cent, so that those places that are occupied and that are endowed, and that have been occupied and staffed by interested personnel, in this case for the three years before, can also be called, and so can be stabilized. If this is the case, the universities in our country could stabilize up to one hundred and fifty more teachers; therefore, we can reach 350 teachers who in one year could stabilize. And so, if it continued in the next few years, we could give an answer to these two things: one, to reduce the interest rate and, therefore, to reduce the rate of teachers that is in a precarious situation, also with the administration staff and you serve, even though it is in a smaller proportion. And then, also, not only this, but we only rejoin this university and the faculty of university professors, that yes, that we have to rejoin it, and that we have..., through all the programs that are promoting the research career, that can be from the predoctoral programs... ; through the programs of contracting new research staff, that this year– this year– we will call 653 places to start helping; more the industrial doctoral programs; more the whole of the Beatriu de Pinos program; more all the programs that are close to « postdoc that have the different universities, and that can arrive to more than three hundred workers; more the Serra Húnter, that the government this week, in a government agreement, has already approved the program, so far as it is concerned, that the teachers are better than teachers. Another thing is the status of the associates, the status of the associate professors. And the associate teacher's figure is a necessary figure in universities, and it must be, whenever a good use is made, not when an inadequate use is made of what has been done in certain universities and especially in certain faculties, in certain studies, which are concentrated. And here what can't be done is to use the associate teacher figure and give false expectations of security and professional career to a teacher, and with a figure that isn't created to do that – that isn't created to do that. And that's the reality. And, therefore, does it have to be solved? Yeah. But what can't be done is from..., let's resolve that they come from abuses, abuses that have occurred on the part of certain institutions at the time of hiring associate professor. And this is the reality and this is the situation we find ourselves in. We want to help activate concrete measures for this staff, who can give continuity to the career. But this happens, so, for..., from programs like the Serra Húnter program, or all of these post-doc or pre-doc programs that I've mentioned before, and that can help them to stabilize and give them career prospects...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.33.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.34.0	...or else, that's not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.35.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.36.0	... – very well – we can solve it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.37.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the allocation of public resources to the organisation of an illegal referral]] [[300-00167/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the allocation of public resources to the organisation of an illegal referendum presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.38.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, miri..., history often judges the task of rulers with a certain perspective, and that, therefore, often takes time. On the other hand, both the Catalans and the opposition to the Government in this Chamber do not require any more waste of time, but they have an obligation to control the ruler in a constant, intense, and certain way. And that is precisely what we intend to do with this question: to ask you, Mr Vice-President, about time and money, two elements which in the case of your counsellor go hand in hand. Look, since you have followed the path of the dead end labyrinth that started Mas on your day with regard to the process, you have ultimately made Catalans waste a lot of time and, above all, a lot of money and opportunities, a lot of opportunities. Money that, in the end, has been used to fill in an absolutely delectable way, all the money and all the resources, to fulfill separatist dreams and to distract Catalans from issues as important as... [[Funnel veils]] – you laugh, but it doesn't make me happy – from health; detract it from the officials of your salary with a 5_per_cent reduction from it, and continue to this day, in 2017, without recovering the 2013 extra pay. It has also been detracted from the children, the Catalan children, those who are still in public schools are spread out over a thousand barracks throughout Catalonia. They have also attracted users of motorways, those users who after the passage of time have seen the renewal of concessions over and over again, curiously in favor of concessionary companies that appear in the Palau case. They have also been detracted from social services, which in the end have nurtured more voluntarism than economic efficiency and sufficiency, that channel of economic collaboration which the Generalitat should have maintained. That aid, in the end, to the self-employed, who are far below the expenditure on structure and independence tours to which you are accustomed. That little bet for the future, for example, with a very little investment, of EUR 750,000, on the mobility of the future; I am talking about the incentive to electricity, in the case of mobility. Look, we're in 2017 and time doesn't seem to happen to you, time doesn't happen, and there's no money left. In 2012 you celebrated an independent party, with cardboard boxes, which cost us money and shame to the vast majority of Catalans who do not share the break as a goal to improve not only our coexistence, but also our well-being. You wasted in 2012, at one of the toughest moments of the economic crisis, money in an independent folklore, which was 9-N. And it is a shame that we have passed many of the Catalans who do not share that project to see a convicted expressionist, a convicted vice-president, a convicted former presidential adviser and an equally convicted education counselor. And five years later, you pose exactly the same thing again. They are still lost in the maze, without exit and without the possibility of amendment, and without realizing that this game you were talking about, that of ‘passing screen, passing screen, is not such a game, which is the finding of a failure; a failure of a process that comes to repeat itself five years later with the approach of a new referendum possibly, as you say, next October, another new spectacle. Look, it's been five years, there are decisions of the Constitutional Court where what is done is not only to annul laws, but also to protect rights; not only to annul budget lines, but to guarantee efficiency and legality in the government's spending. Not only are independent commissioners cancelled, but Catalans are ultimately protected from abuse of power. You are committing abuse of power from the government, violating rights, laws, diverting money and breaking – which is most essential – the basic principles of democracy, which are, among others, not trampling on freedoms or rights and being above the law, which is what you do. The privilege of governing is not to do what you do. The privilege of governing is to serve people, improve their living conditions and, above all, under no circumstances, to believe is immune from the rules that regulate our coexistence, which is what you are doing right now. Mr. Mas, between 2012 and 2015, spent EUR 645,000_ to promote the independence process abroad; more than 39,000 carries Mr. Puigdemont doing exactly the same: the independent Willy Fog; 127,000 you spent on promoting and organizing the rental and attendance of people at the conference you gave in Brussels. We have a budget item suspended because it is engaged in an illegal referendum. And so, a continuous sum and continues. In March you published the tender for ballot papers and envelopes for the holding of an illegal referendum: 640,000 euros. That's where the councilwoman is also charged. And a few days ago the contest came out for a few ballots for an amount of two hundred and a thousand euros. The money of all Catalans is not for you to celebrate continuous independence parties, it does not serve to pay for continuous independence parties. Next Monday we have a conference of Mr Puigdemont in Madrid, and unfortunately already I anticipate that it is most likely that we will see another new historic day of waste and ridicule; a conference where Mr Puigdemont says he will give his gun to exit the campaign for the referendum. Hey, there's not going to be a referendum. It's an exit gun for a campaign for early autonomous elections, which is the only way out left for the government to end all this nonsense. If what you want is a pre-campaign exit pistol, pay it out of your pocket, not with the money of all Catalans. The only valid ballot boxes for Catalans to express our opinion are those of the legal – legal – elections, which respect the basic rules of democracy. And the questions I have for you, because the other data we already know, are: How much have you paid for Mr Puigdemont's conference next Monday in Madrid? Have you paid 255 euros for each attendee at that conference, as you did in the case of Brussels and we found out later? What game did they get the money from? How much did they pay for the room's rent? Because Mrs. Carmena doesn't leave it for free. How much have they paid from there? And, above all: where does the money come from both the ballot box contest and the envelopes and the ballot papers? All that is what we ask you in this inquiry. And we also appeal to you: How long and above all how much more money are you going to spend on the Catalans squandering on your independence? We want you to give us the information of the questions, but also to take the warning that, in the end, Mas's cunning ended in a sin. And for boldness in the end to become a strategy, a good plan is required, and the referendum is not a good plan, it is doomed to failure. Please answer these questions, and then we will ask you more questions, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.39.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.40.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs. Esperanza García, it's possible that your whole and contents of your intervention are designed to provoke some kind of reaction, and I think you won't get along, let's just say, and you won't get it. But I'm starting with a thought. You have qualified Willy Fog's President of the Catalonian Government. Imagine me getting out and using this guy's skills, that I understand he hasn't done them with great affection, to policies of the People's Party or to representatives of the Spanish government. Can you imagine me doing that? I don't do it – I don't do it –, I don't do it now or ever. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't do it now and I don't do it anymore, for as much as you're doing offenses or nice things now, it's the same, it's the same. Therefore, I will try not to fall into these provocations. I begin by answering a question he asked me at the end of the day, which he said: "How long? And the answer is easy: all our lives, all my life. All my life, I will dedicate it to this, to this cause, because it seems to me to be a cause of justice. I mean, for the sake of freedom and justice, I'm going to spend my whole life on it, and... what I've had and what I'm going to have. Do not forget that we will stop doing what we have to do to the servant of the cause of democracy, of the cause of freedom and of the cause of justice. We will not stop doing it, we will not stop working for these causes: now, then, in any of the institutional brands in which we find ourselves. We won't give up on it – never – all the time – all the time. Then, to the very affection that I have and the very esteem that I have to his brilliant oratory, let's do the following reflection. I understand that your intervention has been a great allegory. You want to talk about money used for illegal purposes, in things that are illegal, and I understand that to talk about that..., that you know a lot about it, because you are a part of it, you are an activist and a member of a political party that is the political party that has the most imputed, accused and condemned for corruption throughout Europe; so you know a lot, you know a lot, you know a lot. It's impossible not to know. [[remorse of the voice]] – It is impossible not to know – when you are a member of the party that has the most accused, accused and convicted from all over Europe; the list is endless: Gürtel, Punica, Fabra, Bankia, black targets, Noos, Palma Arena, Lezo, Auditorium, and thus up to a six-year-old case of corruption of your party. Eleven of the fourteen ministers of the later Aznar Government are accused of corruption – eleven of fourteen. So I understand that you know a lot, that you are a real expert in using money for fraudulent things, for illegal things, such as personal wealth, party financing. Fixed that's the only party that's on the same charge of corruption, the joint of the party. This is despite the destruction of computers, despite the fact that they have a failed Justice Minister, a failed Attorney General, a failed Anti-Corruption Prosecutor. All of this – all of this – despite the fact that we have all had occasion to feel a minister of the Interior conspiring with an officer of the Anti-Fraud Office and asking him, often to demand, that you invent false evidence. It's all that bad that we felt it assured... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, does he know how hard you're talking? Do you have to...? Do I have patience when you...? A lot. And plus listening with a lot of interest, and I don't learn much, I learn a lot about human nature – a lot, a lot. Therefore, I would appreciate it if you would also be respectful when I speak. And I'm sure they have occasion to question the monotheme on many other occasions, between other things because they only question the monotheme, they don't have time for anything other than the monotheme. So, don't worry, they'll have occasion to explain to you that you're interested in them, they're worried, that we all know it's the monotheme. He said it's obvious that you have a lot of experience in this, and he said that we've even heard the Minister of the Interior make sure he had prosecutors fine-tuning his charges. So, listen, if, despite all this equipment to build false evidence, to ensure that they match the charges..., if, despite all this equipment, it has entailed that the Congress of Deputies, where it is obvious that..., I do not have an absolute majority in the Congress of Deputies, it is obvious that I do not. If the Congress of Deputies has failed its minister and its attorney general, etc., if, despite all these people working for their cause, there are about 60 cases opened for corruption, imagine – imagine – if you don't have to know, devoting resources to illegal purposes. So, as you know a lot – a lot, a lot – of course, I understand that what you've built is an allegory to speak in the background of your party, and maybe you didn't dare to speak directly about your party and that's why you've given some thought to other issues or areas. And it seems to me that there's another question that's fundamental around it, and it's that we allocate public resources – and you know it and it's easy to prove, and you're under all sorts of audience and court of accounts, etc. – to the service of society, all of you, not to the benefit of the wealth of a few or the financing of a party. So, what do we devote the resources to? To the people's servants, to the people's servants. What do we dedicate the resources to? To social justice, to guarantee equal opportunities, to the growth of the economy. That is why, among other things, despite the enormous difficulties in which we find ourselves every day, difficulties that we do everything possible to overcome and to overcome definitively, as you well know, we contribute to our society, and our economy, continuing to grow and to grow more significantly than many economies around us. So, what do we dedicate our time to? To help our economy grow, to generate wealth, to try to distribute this wealth. And the best proof that we are spending our time is that I take advantage of your intervention to explain these things to you, because it seems to me that you are already talking about the monotheme and, therefore, it is good that we can talk about all these other things that also seem so relevant to us. An economy that grows, as I said, more than double the economies of the euro area; an economy that grows and grows in a solid form, in a robust form, and that grows in a solid and robust form, among other things, because it grows in a diversified way, because there is a growth of all sectors of this economy. An economy that grows much faster, for example, in its industrial sector than in the middle of economic growth; in fact, economic growth, as you know, the year 2016 was 3.5_per_cent, while industrial growth was 5.2_per_cent; therefore, there is an industrial growth faster than the middle of the economy. It is a positive fact that shows the strength and strength of this global growth, because the growth that is produced in the industrial sector is a growth that is used to having a long run, that it is used to generating jobs places of higher or higher returns than middle, it is used to generating stable jobs places. So what we want is this: to give opportunities for people to work, to help the families of this country. We have dedicated our presuppostary resources, for example, to ensuring that there are more teachers and teachers than at any other time in our history, for example. Or we dedicate them, for example, to guaranteeing the basic rights of citizens, with agreements on guaranteed income, that is an agreement that goes far and wide beyond any other comparable model around us. Therefore, to guarantee the best possible living conditions for the people who are in a more difficult situation, to guarantee a few better places of work for the conjunction of our citizens. Therefore, work, family, schools: this is what we dedicate resources to. And in any case – in any case – these rights are obviously complemented by a democratic right, which is the right to vote. And, therefore, we will do everything in our grasp, and we are convinced that it will be more than enough, to also guarantee this democratic right, and, in any case, not to prevent people from exercising democratic rights. Therefore, we will continue to do what we do every day because we are convinced that what we do is good for our fellow citizens. And we understand that the fact that it is good for our fellow citizens is demonstrated with economic data, some that I have just brought to it and many others, that I will certainly have occasion to add it to the second intervention, as I am convinced that you will give me the opportunity to do so. For now, as always, many thanks. It is always a pleasure to be able to dialogue with you and contrast our opinions, even though sometimes they are a little – a little – diverging. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.41.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. There's the word Mrs. Garcia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.42.0	Thank you, President. Miri, Mr. Counsellor, you here have not shared love – you have become accustomed to sharing love – which has shared are infamous. He explained to you..., because it is more convenient to talk about corruption than it is about possible prevarication, possible prevarication in which you incur when you spend money to celebrate illegal references, presuppositional parties that have hidden, according to Mr. Lluís Saved. It's easier to talk about corruption than not prevarication, it's not like you think it's clearly authors. You have spoken of corruption and I suppose you know very well, among other things, because the most corrupt party in all of Europe proportionally is its member of the government, and that is the reality. I found him very nervous; in fact, he didn't answer me absolutely no... He knows I have a lot of esteem for him, but you have a special art to talk for a long time without saying anything, and that's what he did to this faristol: talking a lot, insidiating a lot, and not saying anything. Again, how much have you paid for Mr Puigdemont's next Monday conference in Madrid? Have you paid 255 euros to each attendee of that conference as you had to do in Brussels? What game have you taken that money from? How much did they pay for the room's rent? Where does the money come from for the ballot boxes that you have taken out of the contest and the ballot papers and envelopes that you have bid on? That's what I'm asking you. Take advantage of your intervention not to answer what is not asked of you, but to give due account, as Vice-President and Councillor, of what you spend the money of Catalans when you allocate parties and resources for holding illegal referendums. That's what I'm asking you. I'm not asking you how much money you're spending on health, because health users and Catalans already know what you're spending on: less than many other autonomous communities with less resources available. I'm not asking you what you dedicate to the Català Institute of Finance. I'm asking you where you get the money, what games, and how much independence parties you throw at us every two or three months. It's a very clear question. Are we going to end up learning about the press publications? You have an obligation to answer here the questions posed by the opposition. And do you know why I ask you these questions? Because other autonomous communities also allocate parties to make elections, to buy ballot boxes, to order ballot papers, which is the argument that you have been using all these days with the theme of Andalusia. You have used the case of Andalusia, which has bid on ballot boxes, ballot papers and envelopes, come on, as if Andalusia were just like Catalonia. Does the Government of Andalusia buy ballot boxes to hold illegal referendums? Does the Government of Andalusia want to expel Andalusians from the rest of Spain and Europe? Is it that the Government of Andalusia skips democratic laws as you do? Yesterday Mr Homs said: "We have declared the war on the state democratically. And all the instructions are given, and the instruction is also given to ‘the burden;' ‘the burden is what they have been doing for years. The loss of opportunities and public resources that have eroded Catalans is constant. But I am here today – here today – asking you to give explanations of all those questions that I asked you, and let you – think, you are in time – to deceive Catalans and allocate public money to pay for their dreams. You said: "It is that I am going to be..., I am going to fight for my ideals. No one is telling him to give up; what we are asking him to do is that, as they govern, his dreams be paid for out of his pocket, not with the money of all Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.43.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. I've got the vice president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.44.0	Well, good day to you all again. Mrs. Esperanza García, of everything you have said, I am especially sorry that you said to me that today I did not share love, because I have the feeling that I did, and that the best love I have shared is love to the truth, and that explaining truths is always a demonstration of love. And, to insist on that – I'll make a parenthesis, huh? – the same way I don't fall in the mood to think that I can dictate to you the questions that I have to do, I am convinced that you will not fall in the mood to dictate in which way I have to answer the questions that you ask me. I challenge them in the way I grow more timely and more responsive to the general interest of the citizens and serve the cause of the truth most. Therefore, if you want to dictate my answers to your questions, the only one you need to do is: write down your questions, then write down the supposed answer that I will give you and publish where I think it is appropriate. But while I am responsible for the words I say, I will decide which words I use. He told me that I've eaten bugs, and I suppose he says so because I reminded him of the Gürtel, Púnica, Fabra, Bankia, black targets, Noos, Palma Arena, Lezo, Auditorium, etc. cases. Of all these, can you tell me exactly what this is? Of all these, exactly, what's a bug? [[Pause.]] And if it turns out that there is no such thing as an insidiy, but that they are all well-recognized and known by everyone, and by public opinion, and that those who are listening to us, seeing or reading the transcript of this intervention recognize them and know that all these facts exist and that they are under trial, on the charge, on the charge, on the charge, some convictions and some to the prison, they include expressions of autonomous communities in Madrid, because we see it every day..., if the people who are listening to us or who have been transcribed know that what I am saying is true, you also know, obviously, that I am not saying any insidiy. On the contrary, I am serving the cause of truth. And this is always a demonstration of love. I'm sorry you didn't get it that way, because my intention was, precisely, therefore, that you made it clear. And then he also said to me: "You are committing prevarication. It's not you who has to judge it. I already know that you constantly confound your opinion with the opinion of prosecutors or some courts. And it doesn't surprise me that I'm being confounded, as some of your ministers make sure the prosecutors fine-tuned the charges. But it doesn't have to be confused, it's a mistake, it's wrong. When you say, "Listen, you're doing a prevarication, don't answer to yourself, judge this. I'm not answering. I already know that it may be that, in the end, you get that there is a court, that your party appoints a majority and that it is not conformed exclusively for prestigious recognition courts, but that in some cases it is formed by former members of your own party, and they preside over this court, which is the Constitutional Court, which may one day condemn us for something. All right, all right, I get it. We'll take it. I'll take it. I know, that might happen. Now, if one day this happens, to what extent will it help to resolve the issue raised, which is a phonatively democratic issue? And, therefore, I let myself be flattened in the words of Unamuno: if one day this happens – that I already understand that you may have many gains in it, and you see it, when you do the intervention, that you have many gains in it, that is to say – it is possible that someone can say to that of: "You will win, but you will not convince. And as we are convinced that they have never convinced, and the composition of the chamber so demonstrate, and the electoral results of each and every one of them prove, and in the last and last elections that have been held in our country, that they have followed Spanish legislative elections, you and your main partners, that allow them to rule in the Spanish State, have followed the last matches in Catalonia, that they have held fewer votes in Catalonia..., therefore, as we are convinced that you have never convinced, we are also convinced that we have the opportunity to democratically vote through the votes of the citizens. And that's what we've always tried. And, it's more, when we haven't just gotten out, we've always respected the outcome. The same way we expect and want and believe that we have the right to demand that everyone always respect it, because, basically, and above anything else, we are democrats. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.45.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government on the current state of the European Union]] [[300-00169/11]] The 14th item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the current state of the European Union, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, Mr. Carles Riera has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.46.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. Well, we need a new political project for Europe. This is the holder of our current inquiry and the ultimate purpose. Can you talk about it? Collectively, I mean. Could this be the subject of a major national debate from this very point of view and, above all, from the perspective of our own process? This is the central reason for this inquiry and for the motion to follow it later. And why do we need a new political project for Europe? So, for an obvious reason: because a new country also requires a deep reflection on its geopolitical position and responsibility. And this reflection, if not us, we think that we can make it without apprehensions: without red lines that limit the abst, with ambition and with openness of sight so as to properly situate themselves in the global and local processes of change that at these times are in the march of the world. And in this sense, and speaking of red lines, look, it's a classic, it's a common topic, that concretely we're being asked for an upsurge of certain ideological approaches depending on the independence unit, but it seems like that's just asking us. Because we continually watch, for example, therefore, that Mr. Mas, when he preached for the world, asserts strongly and repeatedly that there are red lines: that of the European Union there is no talking, that of NATO there is no talking, that of the strategic alliance with the State of Israel there is no talking. Therefore, he does seem to be over good and evil and he does not have to take on a red line in this debate he is taking on today. So, well, we plant that if there's no red lines, there's no one, right? and, therefore, that the issue of the European Union does not follow a taboo, does not follow an unapproachable subject, does not follow an unquestionable or unquestionable apriorism, that we can talk about it democratically and that we can talk about it collectively. And, look, that's also for as pragmatic a motivation as it is obvious, because the European Union isn't working today. Today the European Union does not work, either as an international actor or as a guarantor of the social, economic and political rights of a large part of the people of Europe. Today, if I may be compared, the European Union's report is much closer to the Eurovision Festival than to the ideals of some of its original founders. Miri, since 1989, with the fall of the Berlin Wall, and against the initial prognostics of the most enthusiastic, we have not witnessed a new global geopolitical balance based on pau, justice and democracy. And, on the other hand, for what it does to its foreign policy, the European Union's net contribution to this new disorder has been considerable – it has been considerable. There is also attention to the uneven pace of progress in European construction, according to which it is of some or other of its dimensions: there has been considerable progress in articulating at military, police and economic levels; in change, political articulation has experienced far less progress. But there are also great illusions about what it does to the economic unit, since it has also proved to be very low, very low, both in its capacity to predict and prevent the current economic crisis and in its ability to give it a united and effective response. Or, rather, it has proved to be very successful in managing the crisis in favour of banking and capitalism to finance, and very little, or rather a total and absolute failure, in favour of European citizenship and local economies. Without oblivion of the Balkan crisis, with consequences still not overcome and with a lamentable role of the European Union. Or the permanent European incapacity to respond to the conflict between Palestine and Israel. O more recent events related to the harmful European interventions in the wars of Afghanistan, Iraq, Libya, Syria. Certainly, in the case of Libya, they remember – I suppose they have to remember, all of you – the pathetic appearance of Mr Cameron and Mr Sarkozy as third-rate Roman legionaries, who appeared, therefore, in Libyan territories to celebrate the victory of the European legions and to leave currents, and to leave behind a landscape of unprecedented desolation and destruction that today is still a serious problem for the people of Libya and on a global and international scale, to add to it also the deplorable policies and actions in relation to immigration and the refugee crisis. All in all, this has made the European sugar manifest for what it does to its foreign policy, with dramatic consequences both for the countries that have not been objected to as for the very security of the European people. These imbalances and feverish ones, we think, manifest that the elites who lead Europe are more compromised in global projects and interests than in the construction of a specific European scene. European ruling classes seek to ensure their relevance to a global hegemonic political, economic and transnational military conglomerate rather than to a new European project that can contribute to truly democratic, just and multipolar global governance. It has commitments and interests related to Atlanticism, to Zionism, to transnationals, to the military and industrial complex, to the control of the epicentres and borders of global geopolitics, the economy will finance, the media power and the control of strategic, scientific and technical resources dominate the agenda of this conglomerate in the service of the current development model and its main beneficiaries. The European elites put their best efforts into participating in this agenda on a global scale, in order to defend its many pastures, than to build one of the new ones of a Europeanist logic, according to the initial ideals of the founders of the European Union. The altermundialist movement, first, and democratic primaries, then, among others, have been important protest and proposal movements that have denounced and challenged the current European Union and its external and internal policies. They did not have enough strength, however, to change a dramatic dominant trend, neoliberal hegemony, the rise of the right and the extreme right, the retreat of European ideals in favor of a progressive domain of conservative values, xenophobic, anti-democratic, and policies underlies the interests of finance capitalism, militarist and global extractive. In this context, the popular classes in general and the working class in particular have seen their influence, their rights receded, and they have observed how public policies hinder in decline the hand of dictatorships of the euro and the troika. The case of Greece is not a tragic example: the backwardness in the influence of the working class and its organizations, which had been crucial in the construction of the welfare state, public services and democracy, as well as, and we must also subrate, the continuing betrayals of European social democracy, all folded is a very bad symptom for Europe. This lack of political Europe, the nationalism of the states, the lunania and the inefficiency of the European political institutions, the lack of a social Europe, etc., is all that has created this growing phenomenon of disaffection, enlargement, question, criticism and lack of relevance of a large part of European citizenship for what it does to the project of the European Union. It is for all this, Counselor, that we believe that we need to talk to each other about the European Union, without confusing Europe with the European Union, which is a confusion that often, and in a very malicious and demagogic way, make most of the current defenders of the European Union. Because there are various possible Europes, certainly, and we, from the new republic, can help to build some of them better, certainly; but from the European Union it seems that there is only one, if possible, every time more, and with few or no possibilities for democratic transformation: the European Union of Capital to serve global elites, with states that are in the sea local managers, without a democratic political project, without social compromise with its citizens. We, the Councillor, propose to you and to your Government that this country may hold a major national debate on Europe and the European Union, in society and in this Parliament, an open and plural debate, which is truly democratic, and that ultimately citizenship may also exercise its right to decide on what should be the relationship of our republic with Europe and with the European Union. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.47.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.48.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mr Riera. Once again, let me begin by thanking you for the opportunity you have given us, to be able, in this chamber, to speak of substance, that is to say, of content, not only of what we are or what we want to be, but of what we also want to contribute and how we can contribute to making a society as a whole, I repeat, as a whole much better. You've started with two questions; I'll start answering these two questions. Can we talk about Europe? Is that a theme? The answer, quite frankly, is: "Yes, if you can't talk and it's a theme. It's more, it's a problem, that it's not a topic for some. And, therefore, from this perspective, the answer is absolutely and forcefully: "Yes, there is to be talked about – there is to be talked about. It has to be said, because, in the end, we are experiencing a series of superimposed crises at many levels, and many of them have much to see with a structural deficit that today is, as you very well pointed out, not Europe but the European Union. I, from this perspective, we, from Catalonia, have the obligation to give ourselves -in, to think about it and to make proposals, and from this logic: without any apprehensions, surely, as you say, but in any case, without red lines, I mean. And, therefore, absolutely agreeable and nothing to say about the need, the opportunity and even the urgency of being able to do so. That said, also three ideas, that seem important to me and repeat a little what you raised. The problem, for me, is that it is a personal opinion, if I may say so, it is not the European Union as such. The idea – the idea –, let's remember, comes out or the project starts at a time of great transcendence, which surpasses one of the worst wars that has lived on this continent and I would say that the sentient world, with a will to overcome some absolutely pernicious structural rapes. And there's the idea that if we have shared interests, they're going to reduce the rate to the violence. This is the idea behind the European project. I repeat, the idea, as such, seems to me valid. That is to say, anything that allows me to build spaces, structures, institutions, with the will, with the vocation to channel conflicts in a democratic and political way to me seems fine – the idea. What's the matter with us? That the idea is either misexecuted or partially executed or, for private interests, interestedly executed from prejudices, or, in any case, from hardships, which many of us certainly do not share. This is a first set-up. The second point is, indeed, a finding: the problem today, I repeat, is not one of idea, but of structure and, above all, of credibility – of credibility. Because the perception that many people have..., and this I think is not, sadly, new; even Romano Prodi himself, in an interview that we were able to do privately a few weeks ago, said it to us – and I make it public because he also made it public, not because it was a first-hand interview, but... – he himself pointed out that for him and for many people who had played a very important role in Europe, Europe no longer existed, and I speak of Europe as the concept of European Union. Here I do this assimilation of what you alerted and that I, in any case... sometimes, colloquially, do, and that we have to kill. The European Union, as such, does not exist. And for a lot of people – it's true – the European Union is nothing but, to put it this way, the nation of the states. And the states have kidnapped even this whole idea, and they've capitalized it in such a way that they've turned it upside down. Any of this logic, as we have to put it, of Catalonia? So, I think that with honesty, with critical character, and, as we have always done, with proposals. You pose a need, which is that we face the debate from the point of view and all conceptual. I am told, I am alarmed, I am worried and even worried, and in some cases I would say that, beyond that, I am outraged, this constant – and it is not now, but a few years ago – sometimes threatens that to protect Europe is worth everything. We need – we need – that there be, as a minimum, the capacity of power... Forgive me, eh? I see that Mr. Iceta has a very interesting conversation. Surely this is as much the European issue as it is, but I do not know if we can resolve this issue in another area. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens said: "Transparency before everything.]] No, no, I don't doubt that, but if we can do it in an organized way, it'll be easier for everyone. Excuse me, huh? Follow me. I am concerned, indeed, that there are some situations with which we have experienced repeatedly: we have seen it in the presidential elections in Austria; we have seen it in the Netherlands, a few weeks ago; we have seen it a few days ago, a few days ago, in the case of France. And we always end up with this moral blackmail of saying: "We must serve Europe first, because the threat is obviously much worse, and here come extremisms. In the case of France, in fact, it should be remembered that seven of the two presidential candidates had not only serious doubts, but also directly posed the same European project in question, and did not come from the extreme right, but also came from the left. And here we have to reflect: that, perhaps, man, it is not that there is a problem to the extreme right and to Europe, it is that there is a problem with Europe. And as there is a problem with Europe, this is a channel of very different ways: in some cases, radicalizing positions clearly sealed in the state logic, and, therefore, with a series of populisms and state nationalisms; in other cases, precisely seeking to overcome it, it is to say, seeking this internationalization and this transversalization of which you referred very well – I share – the need to recover the European essence with the logic of social Europe. But we've overcome too many times – too often – the game ball at the last second and almost..., not in the downtime, because in tennis there is not, however, in any case, almost at the last minute. You're not doing the thinking you're looking for, but you're giving us the opportunity to do it here today. I must say that, after two years of doing this same reflection in the European Parliament, it no longer seems like a novelty to me; unfortunately, it has become a structural reflection. But the answers we have, not only on the part of the institutions, but also on the part of the states, are still absolutely unsatisfactory. Catalonia has been, socially – socially – politically a country that has cregued, and I would say that it continues to believe, in the idea of Europe. They still believe that Europe is necessary in these principles and in these approaches that we have always, let's say, thanked; in fact, it was here where they got the most powerful results. But, in the same way, it's also where, when it was produced, let's remember, the debate about the constitutional treaty, was produced the most intense debates. Because it is precisely this moral authority, this moral legitimacy to have always defended the project, which also allows us to say: "Yes, of course, but not in any way, and" Not with certain structural deficiencies or deficiencies as we have today. You were considering the issue of the refugee crisis. I believe that today is, in a different way, the main problem facing the project. There's a lot of them, huh? – the economic crisis, the financial crisis, the social crisis – but the refugee crisis, from the point of view of the weakness that it means as the internal and external project of the European Union, is a perfect symbol of what we are facing. Internally because, listen, I explained it to you yesterday: I win from Lebanon. Lebanon has been co-hosted by 1 million refugees, and here it turns out that to co-host 17,000 – I am talking about a concrete state – this is a catastrophe. Home, most of the countries that should have been there by now are not doing so; moreover, with a failed speech, to say that this will be a threat and an invasion, and so on. Those terms don't make me, huh? They're out. So, there's an internal breach. And there is an external weakness, because, effectively – you pointed it out – what has Europe done to prevent this situation in origin? Not only recently, but many times what he has done has continued to contribute to fuel the causes that have generated this phenomenon. So, does he have to talk about it? Yes, of course. Can you talk about it? Yes, of course. And that is why it is perfectly compatible for me to do this reflection with another, which is what I also put on the table of Catalonia: we are starting a process which is, and in the framework of this process it is necessary to be able to speak of everything, precisely because we understand that we have the opportunity to put into value those which are needed but also those proposals that have been produced and generated from here and, moreover, they can last. It is necessary for me to make it clear that the legitimate, democratic and peaceful will of this people to decide their future is perfectly compatible with the need for this future to be conditioned on reflection, on a rethinking, on what they say in English a reallocation of the European project. It's perfectly compatible, it's not absolutely antithetical. For me, it's more, not all of us, but part of the problems we have in Europe that we have to deal with with credibility and with the democratic deficit, part of these problems can be faced if we understand what is happening in Catalonia. Because if the problem is credible, the first thing you need to do is listen: listen to what people say, what people think and, obviously, who are the problems that people think they have to face. And at this point, if Catalonia and elsewhere in the world has a problem of lack of democratic credibility, which is what it is... I think it is the first thing that the European Union should do to tackle its own structural problems. That said, this doesn't just have to be a missing topic from the debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.49.0	Counselor...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.50.0	...it's got to be a theme...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.51.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.52.0	...the central part of the debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.53.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Carles Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.54.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, for your input to the debate. Indeed, as you say, there is a gap, there is a gap, a huge leap between what is the idea of a Europe of some – not everyone, eh? – of the thinkers, therefore, who gave origin to the project of European Union and what is the present reality. From our point of view, this jump is so huge that it is practically insurmountable at these times. You know the European institutions better than I do, obviously, and better than most people in this room, and you know what I'm talking about, huh? So the jump is huge. This vocation that a space of political unity could undermine the violence or decrease the violence, we have seen that it has not been so. We have now witnessed, with participation, as we have previously mentioned, dramatic by the European Union, an increase in violent conflicts on an international scale, with a net contribution and, from our point of view, deplorable by the European Union in most cases. Miri, a tragic moment for the European project is when, for the first time in history, Germany returns to participate militarily in the context of NATO and the European Union of the hands of a minister of the Greens. This is a tragic moment, huh? , a tragic moment that shows that this project has lost its own roots, its own roots. And so, these ideas that you defend for what you do to the initial project of Europe, we need to look for them for another band; it's like, we need to build a new brand, a new scener, because the current European Union no longer exists, it's no longer valid, huh? These ideas of Europe – and I want to point this out here – have already come to an end in the two world wars, as you mentioned, with the famous fourteen points of Woodrow Wilson, in which the right to self-determination of peoples was one of the pillars, and after the Second World War, with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights of the United Nations, complemented by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. In all cases there appears the right to self-determination as one of the fundamental rights to build a democratic and just world. Well, what we're up to is that this right to self-determination that we're up against in the Spanish State, this right to decide that we want to exercise democratically, we can exercise and we can last long in relation to all the political and economic brands that at these times condition us and determine us. That is to say, that the debate on the sobrieties – economic, social, political, democratic, etcetera sovereignty – can be extended to us. It seems to us that this is a basic issue, and I'm famous, counselor, that you agree that we can bring this debate forward from the political and social point of view as soon as possible and with general character. Without doubt, the application and construction of a new political strategy for Europe will require new alliances between us: alliances between nations without the state of Europe; alliances with which the real peoples of Europe are, not their dominating national states; we will be able to build broad social alliances with the most advanced social movements and citizens of Europe; we will be able to strengthen and rebuild the role of the working class and its organizations in the European context, which is essential in order to build an appropriate social framework. And, of course, we think that this new Europe will be more possible than the current European Union, the dictatorships of the euro, the troika and NATO. It will be more possible, it will be easier, this new Europe, overcoming extractive capitalism and financing it uses European institutions and states as managers of its predatory interests at regional and local level. If we want to talk about genuine self-determination and national sovereignty, counselor, we will be able to free ourselves not only from the Spanish State, but also from the bureaucratic, military, extractive and financial networks of the European Union and the managements which, at its service, the European institutions make. In short, counselor, we think that this debate should start soon. That is why we propose that our future process be an opportunity to debate Europe, the European Union and the place the new Catalan Republic wants to occupy. This week we are already beginning to do so, we are beginning to do so in a broad and open manner at an international conference in which more than 20 delegates and world-wide arresting delegates come to talk to us about social, civil, political, right to self-determination, and come to talk about Europe, about the European Union and how to build us marches, more democratic, more social and more forward-looking. And this, of course, we have to do without shells, without red lines: the European Union has to stop being a red line and it has to be a subject of debate and critical questioning as a condition necessary to build a new future scene for the Catalan Republic. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.55.0	Thank you, Mr. Riera. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.56.0	Thank you again, President; thank you again, Member. Indeed, I believe that in these moments we are ahead of a moment when reflection can be organized, it must be done. In fact, we're already working in a _marc – I don't know if you're doing it in this logic too, but in any case I think it's one, among many others, of the ways in which this debate can be faced – which is..., five possible scenes that President Juncker put up at the time. As you know, the first scenario would be to keep things up until now; the second scenario would be to bet for a Europe at two speeds, differentiating those states that want to go faster, in short; the third scenario would be to reduce Europe only to a single market space – there is who defends it –; there is a _four scenario that is a more reduced but more effective Europe, only by sorting out those matters that are object of delegation in the case of Brussels, and, finally, there would be a last and last possible shot, which would be to move towards a much stronger Europe, even more Europe, where there is still much more transparency of sovereignty on the part of the member states. That's five options. In fact, it has not been invented, it is the five options that have always been present on the table; simply, I believe that, in one way or another, these possibilities appear on the table. I think it's good that at least we have these different scenes present and we're positioning ourselves there. Actually, it's what we, too, like the government, are doing. And, therefore, any debate in this sense will always be welcome. Two very quick reflections. You have, for me, the key point: this is about sobrieties. And not only sobrieties, but how sobrieties are exercised and how these sobrieties can be channeled, and through five instruments. And, therefore, as this is of sobrieties and we understand that the way to exercise sobriety, at least the..., I don't know if it's the only..., it's not the only sure, but in any case the most desirable is through democracy, it was also democratic dignity. This is about sobriety and democratic dignity. That's why we understand that these processes that we're starting are perfectly compatible. You were talking about the process that we're about to start. This allows me to remind you..., and, in any case, to invite you to follow up on the reflections we are making on other constituent processes that have taken place from the world. As you know, we already have a few weeks of reflection around these issues. We have invited people through whom we have been able to meet firsthand..., and therefore have a very accurate and very professional advice, and therefore very qualified, of how certain experiences have occurred not only in Switzerland, but in Iceland, Ireland, Xile, Belgium and other parts of the world. And from here on, this will also allow us to make a proposal of methodologies on how we should channel our own process, which, as you know, around June, as government, we will make public, also because it will be the result of having collected these contributions that we have been doing for a long time. There is no doubt that one of the issues to be taken up in this debate will be the European issue. And, more than that, it's not just because this is a subject that concerns us and that concerns us, but, above all, because it's the way we understand that we also have to channel many of the aspects, the problems, the frustrations, that at these times lead us to face the debate in Catalonia in the way we are doing. You were talking about possible different alliances; it's that for me it's perfectly compatible. I mean, I think it's necessary to understand that the world is a dynamic scener. The European Union is not the same today as it was sixty years ago; it is that, in fact, it is not the same or given years ago. And, besides, Europe, not just as the geographic concept, but as the political concept, is constantly changing. Therefore, we must have the absolute..., not only honest, but also the responsibility to visualize how the world is, not just a small part, but how the world is. And, from this logic, I think we have a magnificence used to move forward. That said, there are two elements that seem important to me to emphasize. The first, Europe at these moments, unfortunately, is still a structure which, with many shortcomings, also has some advantage: that it is a space for discussion. And, therefore, I believe that, when there is a space for discussion, we must try to be there to bring it what it is, the reflections that follow or near them. From this perspective, it seems to me, personally, that it is always better to be-there-not, even though it is, obviously, putting proposals on the table. The second reflection that seems to me important to do: Europe in two years' time, perhaps Europe in five years' time, will have nothing to see – nothing to see – with what we have today, and it will not be Catalonia's fault. It'll be completely different. Therefore, those who are obsessed with threatening that Catalonia cannot do what it wants to do, what it legitimately has to do and what it will do, because there is a risk of staying out of Europe, may have to think and wonder whether Europe will be or what Europe will be in five or two years. Because this is the question that would certainly solve many of the problems that people are having at the time of facing the Catalan debate, too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.57.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on the public offer of employment and the conditions of employment of the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia]] [[302-00142/11]] The fifteenth item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on the public offer of employment and the working conditions of the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.58.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to welcome and thank the representatives who accompany us from the Commissions, UGT, IAC, and the Generalitat's social workers collective. Good. On 27 April, we asked the Government about the consolidation of staff and the return of working conditions for the staff of the Administration of the Generalitat. The reply of Councillor Borràs can be consulted in the journal of sessions: from my point of view, it was not respectful nor did it contribute to the commitments imposed on it by the covenants and the laws of the State. And it is that, when there are no arguments, there are those who choose to discredit or fail those who ask for explanations, because, counselor, listen to me, what more would you like, but we do not falsify the truth, and tell us that is to disrespect us and also the public workers. The truth – we said it and we repeated it – is that this government has cut more than any other administration, has gone far beyond state decrees and is now returning less, much less, and more slowly than other administrations. And the truth is that what they are returning is done by pressure from Parliament, from trade unions, by state decree or by court ruling. The Government's initiative is null and void, and its attitude is dilatory and opaque. The advisor told us that if the Government of Spain returned the 1,100_million_euros of FLA interest, she would return the 13th and 14th paybacks. I don't know if you can say anything more populist and less rigorous. Let us clarify that the FLA is debt that the Generalitat, which has no solvency or credibility in the markets, has not been able to achieve... Let us remember that the Generalitat issued patriotic bonds to 4.75_per_cent before asking for the FLA, and when it could not continue paying these bonds it began to renew them with FLA to 4 and 2_per_cent; it does not seem bad business. And those are the 1,100_millions, which I would have had to pay the same, but almost multiplied by two. A FLA that since January 2015 has passed to zero interest for all the debt, the renewed and the new, even more advantageous for the Generalitat. In total, a saving to go to the FLA instead of going to the market – if it could have been – that has been 5,700_million_euro. This year, 2017, only this year, 914_million savings. Doesn't sound like a bad deal. And then there's the issue that the money from the FLA is already ours. It is curious that a government whose economic vice president is directly responsible for the money it receives or does not receive Catalonia. Let us remember that Squerra Republicana de Catalunya voted in favour of the current funding model in 2009, together with the PSOE and Initiative, the predecessors of the municipalities. In short, the Commissioner's response did not provide new elements of commitment for the Generalitat's employees: neither to guarantee and accelerate the recovery of working conditions, nor to propose a realistic public employment offer for this year, which are of course not the 7,721 places, insufficient, as we have shown, to lower the current 30_per_cent to 8_per_cent in two years, insufficient to stabilize and consolidate some 45,000 places in three years. That is why we register and put to the vote today a motion which attempts to capture the demands of the three trade unions present at the general table, legitimate representatives of the workers affected by these cuts. A motion with three blocs: the first bloc, aimed at ensuring the stability and consolidation of public staff in three years, in the terms that the Government of Spain has signed with the trade unions, which are reflected in the general budgets of the State and in Royal Decree 6/17 of 31 March. We therefore ask that the general table be convened before 25 March to study seriously the staffing needs by sector – retirement forecasting, structural and cyclical temporality valuation – to finally agree on a schedule of oppositions by sector until 2019, lowering the temporality to 8_per_cent. The second block concerns the recovery of pre-crisis working conditions in three years, convening the general table before 8 June. We are talking about recovering the extra payments of the 13th and 14th before the end of the 19th, of the 100_per_cent of the wage for temporary incapacity, of the Social Action Fund in two years, of the thirty_hours of undisposed in the ICS, of the right of teachers older than fifty_and_five years to change two_hours of teaching for another activity at the center – also progressively in two years –, of maintaining the appointment and interim salary in July, of replacements from the first day and of progressive recovery of supplements for productivity. All these measures are being negotiated or are already being resolved in other administrations. And the third block of the motion guarantees budgetary coverage of all these measures. In short, we ask for what is fair and corresponds to our public employees, with a realistic motion, which captures trade union demands and which does not require the Government of the Generalitat to make a commitment or effort that is superior to what other governments are already making. For these reasons, we ask for the majority support of the Chamber for this motion, as a support and a backing for the fair trade union demands at the negotiating table. Because, as the three majority unions have transferred to us: "The defence of the rights of the employees and the public employees of the Generalitat must be through legitimate discrepancies between the different political groups. Thank you very much, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.59.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. In order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.60.0	Thank you, President. Welcome to the trade union representatives who are accompanying us today and also to the representatives of the social workers, who have been chasing us for a few days, to the parliamentary groups, so that we can answer a need and a few more than just requests. So today, taking advantage of the motion put forward by the People's Party, the Socialist Group has made this attempt to make this claim, which we hope will be approved today. Look, I'd like to say, to the government and the councilwoman, that we're here today because you don't comply. If you're complicating, if you're doing your job, if you really are, more than telling the public workers that you're doing it, that thanks to them the public services are coming forward..., if you're doing more than that in what they're doing, that's completing the 20th genera of 2016, where we're already committing ourselves to a lot of things that we're going to vote again..., so if you're going to do this, we're not going to be here. And now we've been talking to some congressman, that if unions and union representatives and workers are tired of claiming, we're also getting tired. Because to approve a motion, to approve it unanimously as we will surely do today, is a value, but if after we are unable to carry this motion forward, to make it complete, then it serves nothing. And, therefore, I understand the good will of Mr Sabria, who is the deputy of Juntes for Yes who always negotiates with the opposition, but then he has a problem, that is that the government does not complete until all that you are committed to with the rest of the groups. Therefore, what we would like is a clear and firm will – clear and firm – of the Government to bring forward these commitments that we will probably approve with a majority or unanimously. It seems to me that it's been too long for us to wait for a calendar to pay extra for 2013 and 2014. And, listen'm, that's not worth money, Counselor, that's timing how we return 2013 and 2014 payments is not worth money; it's worth the will and the winnings of yours and wake up. It's just that, plus, I even sometimes think that we're too sensible, from the opposition, because, plus, we're planting the calendar from 2018, that's to say, not even this year, right? That is to say, we understand the parliamentary dynamic and we understand the situation of the Generality, but it is clear that you are making no effort. The general months of public service are hardly called. When they're called, it's like talking to a wall, because there's no answer, there's no feedback. What we want is a government of truth, which has more sensitivity to solve problems, especially when they are approved in a youth, as I say, of the 20th generation of 2016, which has passed a little while ago. So today, in these demands that are shaped by the People's Party and that we have tried to improve some parliamentary groups, we will again vote on some things exactly the same. What I would ask is that, if approved, they do the favor of fulfilling those mandates that come from Parliament. Yes, fill in those mandates coming out of Parliament. It's just that some of the proposals here aren't worth money. IT isn't worth any money either. There are things that just need the will and the effort and the gains to really give an answer to which... it is true, to these public workers, who are delivering much more than they are looking for to give a good quality in the public services of the Catalonian Government. Look, our papers, to be very brief, have tried to go – in some of us, not in others – to try to mark a little more the government because things are fessin' between 2018 and, like a lot, the first quarter of 2019, not to go much further. In some cases we didn't get out, but it's the same; with no consent, with no agreement, we accept it. Therefore, I hope that after the government does what it has to do, that it is to complete. We have made statements in this line, above all, and then we have made the message that I was commenting on the social workers, who have a very particular situation, which is that from the year 99 to the social workers of the different departments are not called places. Therefore, we are in an irregular situation, which has nothing to do with its will, and what we believe is that now we cannot call some places in the normal way or in the way it is ugly. We think that we need to give a high priority to the merits they have because this is an element that differentiates them from other people, right? , especially taking into account that we cannot decapitalize the Administration of the Generality. And, therefore, we believe that it is necessary to deal with this problem with a specific mechanism, obviously, of which they are the victims. We believe that, in any case, who has done it badly is the Administration, and that what he must try to do is solve it and put in place a measure that allows the continuity not only of his work, but also of the service that they are giving. These have been the papers, because we share most of the proposals that the People's Party has incorporated, basically because they are the ones we have been working with the unions, which I also want to thank for their work. But, I repeat, that the government, beyond having to raise its hand, then sends it off – on May 25th, June 3rd and these dates on which we have agreed – then agree and then complete the agreements that are approved in this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.61.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word Mr. Joan García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.62.0	Yes, President. Well, first of all, welcome the collection of social workers; already the advances that we will also support the papers presented both for Catalonia Yes it is Pot as for the Socialist Party. Welcome to the unions, which have done a great job in the last few months, practically, so... with an answer that we believe is not the most appropriate. We believe that today brings reality back to this plenary, a reality that we have already discussed a few times, and that, well, today we see in a motion presented for the People's Party. We are talking, therefore, about a repeated and repeatedly incomplete report by the Government, and in particular, in this case, by the Governance Council. We are coming to a sad situation of overcoming the anniversary of violations of the agreements entered into by this Parliament that demonstrate the most obvious lack of willingness to face the complex situations to which government action is, in fact, to be devoted. And, yes, we speak of respect, but not to this chamber alone, but also to public workers, those who praise the council when answering Ciutadans' questions with empty words, then, of contents in the form of real actions. Because the councillor is much more interested in other initiatives, and is little concerned about the blocking of the Public Service Bureau's negotiation. They prefer to look at another side and let time pass, a time that they believe will allow them to evade their responsibilities and that will ingeniously forgive them what they are doing. And it's that she won't even be able to come out in defense of public workers when there are repeated political threats. The councilwoman preferred to make cries, accompany them, therefore, to the jutjats, and use, to build their political relationship..., those that are precisely guarantee the legal neutrality of the Administration of the Generality, the one that must respect the citizens. That's the context. And, yes, this message I want to make clear – it's all related –: one of the major rights that a public worker has to have is that he is guaranteed legal certainty. Without that, we think it's all gone. The context, Mrs García Cuevas, is important, and the historical too. We appreciate what we have seen as a good step backwards from everything we have discussed on other occasions and reflecting the demands of the different unions at the Civil Service Bureau. The collection worked with them will have our support, I've already translated it. I'm not going to talk about the proposals at once, but some points that we think are important and that I want to focus on. Looking at the proposals, it is clear that the Government of the Generality has failed in its government action for what it does to public workers. It has not even been possible to schedule the return of the 2013 and 2014 foreign payments, again. But this is not the hardest: the government of Mrs. Borràs has even more pre-characterized public work, in which the percentage of temporality has increased by 4_per_cent, which approaches 26_per_cent, when the object marked for the unions is 8. We're talking about about fifty thousand temporary workers, in total; in fact, we're talking about six thousand temporary workers over a year. There are even collections that carry in this interinatge situation years and years, and today we have an example here, in the chamber. It will open up the opportunity, I think, to do some more to deal with this situation. He invites us, this young man, to do so through a plan similar to that of the Law of general assumptions, which, with the support of Ciutadans at the Congress, would have reduced it to 8_percent of the number of persons in four years. What did the counselor announce in the inquiry? Res. Smoke. "We will make a law, a plan, and after all there is a red line that assumes the end of the legislature, which will free us of any obligation, which, for us, in the end, is inaction. We're tired. In fact, we are tired of this situation, in a way that does not pay dignity, so loaned for public workers to the Generality these last few years. And so, as sceptical as we are, what we do think we need to ask the councillor – and I think it's the best way to end this blockade – is to use these ballot boxes that you have bought or want to buy to fill those votes that your government can get out of this situation, to block management with public workers. We think this is the way; we hope this happens. MPs, MPs, many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.63.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.64.0	Well, thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies, people you are following us, interested in the topic we are playing, have a good day. Mrs García Cuevas, the motion you are presenting to us is correct. It's not strictly a People's Party motion, because it's basically the retreat of the union demands of the public service posed in the form of a motion for you. All right, the work they've done. You know that we have often discussed the suitability of parliamentary groups to intervene in collective bargaining. We do not share this, and we have often voted against many proposals precisely for this motion. I suppose that's why, too, this time it has taken into account, and it has asked in various points whether it is the general table or the various sectoral months that concretely make it possible for us to approve here today. So, so to speak. I have already said: it seems right to us, we will vote in favour of it, and if more can achieve the unanimity that seems to be produced, then we will have to congratulate it. And, once you're happy, let's criticize her, which is what I'm used to doing with you, as you know. More than a king, why don't you try to use this young man to present your party as the advocate of public workers, because it's not – it's not. It's not, because I assume you're aware that if public service throughout the state, and, therefore, also in Catalonia, is found where it is, it's the People's Party government's fault. I suppose you do. It is this government, which imposed presuppositionary restrictions that allowed for the retailing of foreign payments. It is this government, which set a zero-per-cent repositioning rate, with the consequent accumulation of temporary staff due to lack of call for seats, which is precisely what we are now trying to deal with with the recent agreement signed in Madrid. It's this government, the one that wiped out working conditions that were agreed with the unions and that we haven't recovered at all yet. It is this Government, which teaches and facilitates the way so friendlyly enjoyed by the Government of Catalonia to make friends and friends between them work and be the last to return some of the details that have already returned to other places. It is the typical action of the governments of the Drets across Europe with their functioning, and in paradigmatic examples it is what Aznar did or Sarkozy did. That is to say, first of all, let us apply brutal details to end up pacifying, after a while, better ones that never return to us where we were before, but that allow us to go to posterity with good and kind negotiators. Therefore, we will vote for it, but we will vote for it without emotion, just as I am convinced that you will defend it without emotion than just giving historical recidivism. If not, as it would be understood that a few weeks after arriving at this good agreement, to reduce the temporality to 8_per_cent, they introduce into Article 19 of the general assumptions of the State a clause that limits the contracts of interest to three years, that can leave thousands of people unworkable and that in the best of cases will destabilize the seedlings and produce unwanted rotations. Did I solve it? I'm sure he didn't accept the message for now. Another of the items that we have presented to you intends to complete precisely the objective of stabilising the plants, and refers to all the temporary staff who occupied the same place during all this time in which they did not have the opportunity to make it fixed because there was no summoning of objections, and who demonstrated, with their work, that they are perfectly able to develop it. Now that there is an agreement to call places, we should take into account – specific merit – this dedication to avoid, effectively, unnecessary displacements. And the third point refers to a trade union application to the Government of the Generality, which, if approved and enforced, to the Government of the Generality would make judicial proceedings, because it is filed before the courts. It refers to the cost, the effects of social contributions, of the 15_per_cent of the day that was made to the staff involved. On that occasion, the Generality ceased to contribute to Social Security for this percentage because it interpreted that it was contributing to a partial job. Error. Error: There was no part-time job willingness; it was a full-time occupation regulation. And, as such, when this happens in these consignors, and, in addition, with the jurisprudence given by the Supreme Court, the cent_per_cent to Social Security is raised. It is therefore no less the least-scapt that it supposes for future benefits dependent on the contributions of these people, such as pensions, or the same-scapt to Social Security. Therefore, what we claim in this question, which has accepted us, is that the Government reintegrates into the Treasury of Social Security this under-declared percentage between April 1, 2012 and December 31, 2014 as a contribution from its workers and workers, and it is not to be expected that, following the doctrine of the Supreme Court, you will lose your sense of feeling – as you did, certainly, with the deserved share of the 2012 pay, and that we have spent so much time recovering. In other words, I insist, we will vote all in favour. Madam President, deputies, deputies, counselor, friends and friends, good morning to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes, has the word Lord Sergi Sabrià.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.66.0	All right, good morning. Good morning, President. Deputies, representatives of the majority unions, representatives of the social workers, who we have shared the last few weeks, let me start as I always do in these motions, and it is always a thank you to the public workers, many times undervalued and to which we have asked so much during the last few years; for us they are the first and most important of all the structures of the state. I also want to say – said Mr. Marc Vidal, and I add – that the civil service has changed a lot in the past, and it seems to me that we have found what we really need to do, and, therefore, we are working hard from here. "This means that we are all talking to the unions, that we are all collecting their proposals, that we all value them, and that when we transfer them to the plenary, we understand that it is up to us to do the function of the impulse of this table and not to replace it – the sensations that we have had some time from here, that we have been trying to replace the Bureau of Public Service. Also to say that it is a pleasure to do so now, unlike at other times or a few years ago, when we came out here many times it was to ask very important efforts of our public workers because it helped us to cope with the lack of resources that the Generalitat had opened up the belt, and that, fortunately, this helped us at that time not to be cut into social policies, it is no longer so, but we have reached a new phase where each of the times we came out is to recover the rights that had been held up at the time, to give it form, that the Bureau would agree so that this would have a calendar. If we go to the senate, then say that today we will vote in favour of almost the whole senate, not the whole senate, but almost the whole senate. We want to thank the chattering Taranna of the Lord Caves, the facilities that Mr. Vidal has put for us, and to give thanks to Mrs. Romero too, because for us there was a key point, which was that of the social workers, and we could have come to an agreement very much satisfied. We also ask the Counsellor for this effort at the Bureau. I think that we are moving forward well, that we are moving forward, so we are recovering these rights that we have, but we would like to move forward even further, and therefore the result of today's vote, that we can continue to gather, that we continue with this will to reach agreements, to move forward, because the recovery of the FAS has to be realized, because the topic of the IT they have on the table and with good will also has to have calendars. And, therefore, going forward in this recovery that we say, of lost rights. And I'm sure we also need to put down a schedule for the recovery of payments – I'm sure we need to put in a schedule for the recovery of payments – but what's not worth saying is that we need to do it before the first quarter of 2019 and make someone think that before the first quarter of 2019 we could compromise a spending around 800_millions. Because we are always trying to vote or move to the Bureau when it is intended to be possible to make things happen, and therefore not to make public workers think that things can happen today, so they have difficulties because they are a reality. I'm moving on to another topic. It seemed that 7,721 places of public employment offer were only a few. I think if this had come up with a proposal eight months ago, everyone here would have applauded with the ears, and when it's a reality we don't forget, it's no longer on the table and it's no longer given the value it has. And these 7,721 places, which is the most important offer of the past six years, the first great offer, which allows us to improve the service, which represents a brutal effort in the most social spaces and an opportunity of nine places, and therefore of more work and consolidation of some of the existing ones, for us too are important. I don't forget the problem of social workers. I think that this agreement that we're getting to today may not be exactly what we all want, but we do so with unanimity and with the result that we all want, that it's the recognition of these many years, of this experience and of all this work done to our administration, and that we're going to sleep in the solution. And, finally, I would like to ask, even though it is very simple, a slogan in voice, which is: in point 4... – forgive –, in point 2.6 says: "Progressive recovery of productivity remuneration to return to the situation before 2012. We ask, as we have presented, that there you say the situation tells you the amount. Therefore, the compromise is that the same money will be put in it, but in all that we can do better, therefore, that we have the opportunity to move forward, that we take advantage of all the work that has already been done; that, therefore, there is the compromise to allocate the same money to it, but if we can do better, then we do better. This is a noise in your voice. We would appreciate it so much that we could accept it, it seems to us that it improves the result. And we apologize, because we could have done it before, we could have done it before, and we didn't. Anyway, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.67.0	Thank you, Mr. Sabria. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.68.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, people who accompanied us, welcome. The reason they present us – it has already been said here, but I will repeat it – for us, for the UPC, there are two..., « anomalies, it went to say, but as at least there are two things that surprise us: one, for the group that presents it, and the other, because somehow also, so there is an attempt to confuse what Parliament is with the negotiating table, and we – it has been said – we will not help this be possible. The group that presents it, we think it is surprising that it is present here, I took the wage claim table, I took it here in the form of a young man, I worked it perfectly, eh? , the work with a laudable parliamentary job, surely, but that remains with the motxilla of enormous responsibilities – enormous – precisely in the moments when the workers of the public office see. And this for us, far from being just a political appreciation for..., creates important insights. We do not believe in this system of work, and we do not believe in this confusion of negotiating table with the Parliament that is only a woman in the workers of public office. We don't believe it. I've said it a number of times. And, in addition, we make a direct petition to the unions and to the representatives of the public service workers: we will not favor this path any more. We don't seem to be able to live permanently in the doubt of whether we have to give support or not because we don't agree on how things are done. And we say this publicly: we will not favour it. What has been transferred to this Parliament has a high political content, which, later on, and as has been seen in previous interventions, is used as a function of other political ends that the mere wage claim of the workers, and this way we will not favor it. [[Some applause.]] What are the reasons for the claim? Obviously yes – obviously yes – and many – and many. That's not what we said before. The prop staff of 200,000 public employees, of which some 42,000 are interim, is a high rate of precariousness. The Madrid agreement, which talks about reaching agreements in the area of staff stability and stability about 49,000 places [[Funnel veils]] ...Yes, they value it, Sergi; yes, they value it. The 7,721 seats, we value them, they're important; what happens is that the deficit is huge, huh? , and at work, ingent. And it's in this sense that we don't understand... and we do, too, so a cry for what they've been doing since the council. Because the governess in her Parliament is talking to us about "We have talked to the unions at the last negotiating table, at which we were going to say that we would bring the offer of public employment forward and that we did not give up this agreement, but the unions tell us the opposite, they will advise – the unions tell us the opposite. And they say to us: "These places have been offered without agreement with the unions, with the representatives of the staff, and they have not been informed of how this quantity has been determined. The same one will also advise us that it will go beyond the Madrid Accord, eh? But the unions tell us that they don't see this more there, nor do they realize it, that more there. The government has a mandate to complete it, which is the resolution taken in this Parliament, approved unanimously, respecting the recovery of payments and other labour rights – as Mr Sergi has already said – which are the rights of public workers, such as wage increases, not losing power, social background, 100_per_cent before transitional incapacity, etc. From our group, therefore, we will always give support to collective bargaining, to the negotiating table as a way of resolving these questions. Properly important questions and negotiation enough necessary because on the part of the Government there is an answer, and properly important questions and negotiation enough necessary as not to leave them, we think, today in the hands of who presents this motion; a parliamentary group, the People's Party, which today takes public office as a strategic theme in its particular way of seeing Spain, and which is the living representation, huh? , of the maltreatment, precisely, that has suffered the public function. The public service workers are not the expression in a very particular way of hearing the State or the axis of the coups of the return government, but for us, for the CUP, they are the basis on which we have to build a public administration in favour of the public sector and with an objective of making an efficient, effective administration and with the prospect of ensuring a fairer and more equitable society. And that goes for us through the construction of the independent Catalan Republic. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.69.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. Next, in order to pronounce on the exams, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.70.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen, at the outset, I would like to thank the groups that have tabled amendments, which have shown us their willingness to reach agreements and to put the general interest of the Catalan public service above the legitimate political differences. I would like to thank you for your attitude and generosity by submitting amendments, trading them or even withdrawing them, because I think people are tired of the crippling and barren political confrontation, of the overturned party positions. The sectarian or exclusionary attitudes in politics can build a discourse of apparent doctrinal dignity, but they are increasingly out of step and away from people's concerns. Because this tangible aspect of politics, which I believe is what people are asking of us... – that we have the capacity to reach agreements, to overcome differences, to achieve among all an improvement in the living conditions of people –, this aspect I believe is very important for the general interest, to achieve concrete improvements that affect the lives of concrete people. This is the philosophy that guided the motion. A motion that wants to be from all the groups in the chamber, so that we all feel comfortable supporting today a demand led by the public service unions, but that we make our own and that we support united as strategic allies for this higher interest. For this reason we have tried to incorporate all the contributions of the political groups except for specific issues, such as the thirty-five hour demand from the PSC, which exceeds the return to pre-crisis days and could complicate the adoption of this point. Or the request for the elimination of Article 19 of the draft general budgets, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, because it is a question that we have talked personally and directly with the Government : they are aware of the problem and are in motion solutions, even for Catalan universities, which are a peculiar case. Or we have also not accepted some of the issues of Junts pel Yes, because we believe that they distort the motion, which is still a proposal for the negotiating table on which to start talking. That is why we cannot accept, Mr Sabrià, your amendment in voice either. In short, we thank, first of all, the public employees for their undoubted and generous collaboration with the general interest these years; the trade unions, their clout; and the groups that have wanted to participate in this motion, their attitude, because with their support we have tried to reactivate the negotiation at the general table with concrete, fair, realistic proposals. We believe that this is an opportunity that we have in this chamber today and that we should not waste. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.71.0	We are calling for a vote, once all the speeches are over. Mr. Sabrià, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.72.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.73.0	Yes, yes... say, Mr. Sabrià, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.74.0	To request a separate vote of 2.a.1, 2.a.2, 2.a.4, 2.a.5, 2.a.6, 2.a.7 and 3.b. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.75.0	Okay. Thank you. [[Pause.]] A separate vote has been requested on items 2.a.1, 2.a.2, 2.a.4, 2.a.5, 2.a.6, 2.a.7 and 3.b. We will begin by voting these points separately, and then we will vote on the rest of the motion. So we're going to vote on point 2.a.1. The vote begins. Point 2.a.1_has been approved by 70 votes to 62, with no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Tell me you can vote all together. So we're going to vote them all together. Now we're going to vote on those remaining, which are 2.a.2, 2.a.4, 2.a.5, 2.a.6, 2.a.7 and 3.b. We will vote for them, these, together, and then vote for the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The points of the motion were approved by 72 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Next, we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the public offer of employment and the conditions of employment of the staff of the Administration of the Government of Catalonia has been approved by 134 votes in favour, against and against. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the compliment of paragraph I.1.2, "Social requirement for the celebration of a referendum, of Resolution 306/XI, on the general political orientation of the Government]] [[302-00143/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on the compliment to paragraph I. 1.2, "Social Requirement to Celebrate a Referendum, Resolution 306/XI, on the General Political Orientation of the Government, presented for the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, they already know that they ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, please, so that they can continue with the session. [[Widow's remorse.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.76.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Well, good morning to everyone. I'd like to start by recalling some shared evidence. October 6th the Parliament of Catalonia approved, with the votes of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and Junts for the Yes, a resolution that commits the Catalan Government to promote an inclusive referendum, with guarantees and legal effectiveness, and to seek the expected recognition of Europe and the international community. I insist, because I believe it is the centre of today's movement: the resolution passed obliges the Government to seek the anticipated recognition of the international community. Unfortunately, the beauty of the Spanish State and also our own difficulties make it difficult for seven months after that resolution, and when there are few four months left for the maximum date fixed in that resolution for the celebration of the referendum, there are still no basic aspects of the referendum such as electoral regulations, electoral administration, hundreds and many others. So, then, the motion that I am presenting today on behalf of Catalonia Yes, it is possible to ignore the imperative need that we need to seek international recognition for the referendum if we want to overcome the constant and permanent blockade of the Spanish Government. This motion aims, modestly, to open a way for this anticipated recognition of the international community, among other things because seven_months after a very strong statement as it was «referendum or reference, today unfortunately there have not yet been any basic aspects, and ours is the only proposal publicly presented to fulfill that mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia. I want to insist that it is a fully viable proposal. Fortunately, at these times no one is ever going to deny that from Catalonia they can promote the conditions to go to look for this anticipated recognition of the Venice Commission from its code of good practices. And it turned out to be false, and in some areas it was said, that this can only be called upon by the Spanish State. In this sense, I am grateful that the Juntes for the Yes and the CUP contain an explicit recognition that our proposal is viable and that from Catalonia we can go to look for this recognition on behalf of the Venice Commission. And I hope that this is how we vote and that we can start doing it. Let them be something I think we all share, and the criteria of the Venice Commission are common sense, democratic common sense. I suppose that is why so many political forces in the Catalonian Parliament have repeatedly expressed the authority of these criteria and the will to submetre-s there. Because I hope we all share that, with this young man's independence, any call for a reference that really follows a reference will have to complete the requirements of the code of practical good to be effective, to have international recognition. In this sense, a referendum must have a legal rule that will prevail, approved with sufficient anticipation, that it will be known by the citizenry, because it is possible to celebrate the referendum in democratic conditions. Any reference that you are not employed for a valid legal rule, with the ability to force and recognize as such, would not be a reference, it would be another thing. A referendum must count on an agreement of the political community called for to vote. It is obvious that any reference that was not recognized by an important part of this society in which it is intended to celebrate would not be a reference, it would be another thing. A referendum must have an independent electoral administration; a referendum that is not available to an independent electoral administration recognized for all parties would not be a referendum, it would be another thing. A referendum must have a planned electoral census, before which the citizenry must be able to present its complaints; a referendum without this planned electoral census would be another thing, it would not be a referendum. In this sense, I believe that the transactional motion, after negotiations, for Catalonia Yes, it can and does offer us the opportunity to do things well and to try to overcome the opposition and the benevolence of the Spanish State with two great lives: encouraging social mobilization and, at the same time, seeking this expected recognition of the international community in this sense, directed to the Venice Commission. I want to pay attention to an important issue, for us: the one that refers to the need to maintain and intensify the mobilizations, which we propose to do under the umbrella of the National Referendum Pact, a national pact that has done a splendid job, and we will still have the opportunity to prove it in the unitary act to the Palau de Congresses in Barcelona, and that above all I believe that it has taught us the way to do things well, that it is not another that acts in a unitary way the maximum of social and political organizations for as long as possible together, attached, and with the maximum of shared demands. The unit of objects around the reference and the actions to make it possible are our great weapon. We hope that, if this motion is approved today, it will serve to consolidate this great work for the National Referendum Pact and to continue working all the folds so that the citizens of Catalonia can vote freely and democratically in the referendum that we have long wanted and for which we are fighting. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.77.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.78.0	Thank you, President. Talking about guarantees in five minutes is practically impossible; I will try. We have tried to build a consensus not only with the ideas that we have presented, but with the subsequent negotiation, because we thought, and so we understood, that the will of all pleas was to move forward in defining who should be the guarantees of the referendum. To us the Code of good practices on the references of the Venice Commission seems to be a good reference, but obviously, when we land on the political context in which we live in our home, we do not have to kill some questions, because, if not, what we will do will already be laid down conditions that are impossible. And that's why we're talking about a state of law that we understand to have escaped, because we already know that the state that governs us, so it hasn't been approved by the Catalan people; that it's intervened, because, more than that, the CT has fallen on us the legal instrument that we need to have approved one year earlier, which was the Law of Referendum, and it fell on us only a few weeks ago; and it was numb, because the Venice Commission also talks about freedom of expression, and this is where we start to have a list of people charged for their opinions and expressions. Therefore, this was to appear in this young man. Moreover, we have built guarantees from another perspective. That is to say, accepting the Venice mark, we think we need to talk about other guarantees, too. We need to talk about the guarantee of the right to vote, for example, how to establish voting points in foreign countries and also in the Spanish State, outside Catalonia, because Catalans and displaced Catalans can vote. We need to talk about the guarantees in the recount, for example, of how we guarantee the impartiality of those who conform the months. And we also need to talk about how we guarantee neutrality in the campaign and the existence of a yes and no campaign. They are elements that are not in the Venice Commission, but for us they are also guaranteed. But, in the end, the whole debate about guarantees, which is interesting, which is essential, is reduced to the debate about recognition. And the debate about recognition is not the debate about guarantees, because it's clearly different things. In our context, recognition is a consequence of the reference; it cannot be a prerequisite, a condition. We will have recognizance as later validation, but we will never have previous recognizance. And who focuses the debate on this recognition before the end is not talking about guarantees, not talking about sobrieties, not talking about people; at the end of what is talking about states. And what we are doing, in short, is treating ourselves as underage that either we ask permission from the Spanish State or now we accept that, instead of asking the Spanish State, we have to ask the Venice Commission, but it continues to deny what is sovereignty, which is the concept of self-determination, which always – always – has a component of unilaterality. And we defend this, the right to self-determination, the sovereignty that it entails and its unilaterality. And we will not ask permission from the State and we will not ask permission from the Venice Commission either. We're trying to build a different mark. And that's why this weekend, the week off, we'll be with more than twenty political associates and associates from twenty states... or, let's face it, from twenty peoples, right? , which conform not only to Europe, but also to the conjunction of the Euro-Mediterranean region. There will be the people of the Left Block of Portugal, there will be the people of Die Linke d'Alemanya, there will be people of Kurdistan, there will be people of Morocco – of Rif –, etc., because we understand that one of the very things we need to do to guarantee this reference is to achieve international alliances, alliances of those political forces that share respect for the right to self-determination and respect for the sovereignty of our people. It does not cease to be curious that, in the end, Together for Yes and Catalonia Yes, it is possible to arrive at a consensus that we need to be excluded from, because the point of finding where this motion was built – and we have discussed it a lot – is a point where we cannot be there, because it requires that the reference be followed or granted with the State or with preview recognition of the Venice Commission. So, at the end of the day, you're still curious, aren't you? The independence of order, to say the least, if it is allowed to simplify it, and the left also ends up, in the defense of the State, in the defense of an understanding that they understand that we can only be where a state leaves us and that all our political action must always go around the permission, the authorization and the idea of state..., so it is normal that we here, at this point of finding between Junts for the Yes and Catalonia Yes, it is possible..., unfortunately you will not find us there. He already said, on November 9, 2015, that we had much more PSU and much more POUM, if we were to look for some kind of historical referent on our political left, and that we were to follow a guide closer to Pasolini. I just got it right away. Marina Garcés, in a recent interview, analyzing the independence movement, said: "The independence movement has two currents: it has a current that wants to overflow state brands as we have known them, and it has a current that it wants to reinforce the idea of state, of statization, this point at which today they arrive at a Catalonia agreement Yes it is Pot and Juntes for the Yes. We are very clear that what we want is to overwhelm state brands, because at the end the states matter to us very little; the ones that matter to us are the people. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Grupo Parlamentari Junts per el Si, has the word Ms. Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.80.0	Okay. Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Look, we, when we saw this young man, had a lot of guts to look at this young man with good eyes, because we had a lot of guts to believe him. It seemed to us that we were willing to believe that this young man was to serve, it was to be useful, to overcome the immobility that many times we have installed in this chamber, because it seems to us that you cannot be part of this immobilism that has installed in this chamber. A immobilism that acts many times, when this country advances, when this country approves in this Parliament of Catalonia aspects that make us progress as society and as the country, aspects that make us advance..., therefore, there is a certain political majority in the Congress of the Spanish State, the Spanish State, formed in good part by the Spanish Government of the PP and supported by Ciutadans and the PSOE, that makes those advances, those changes that we approve in this chamber, remain clearly using instruments with the Constitutional Court, using instruments with the prosecution, using instruments such as the Congress of Deputies. Majorities that exist there and that do not come here to stop the change, to stop the progress and to install our country, our citizens, in immobilism. And immobilism in our country suspects and endures all that smells of progress, and we have seen it: that if the Law of effective equality between men and women, that if the Law of poor energy, that if the housing emergence, that if the empty floors, that if the tax on banking, that if the nuclear, that yes, etcetera, the Mediterranean Corridor... The immobilism obviously also suspects and stops everything that makes reference – everything. Because the reference is change, because the reference is progress, that reference is democracy, because the reference is that people decide. To do the reference is to defeat immobilism, and it seems to us that this young man has to be used for this, it has to be useful for this, and it seems to us that at this point we can hear each other. We have looked at this young man with good eyes, too, because we have the will to believe that it is to be used to give response to a majority of citizens of our country – an 80_percent or more, to the inquiries we see – that you believe that in the only way we can emerge from the political cruelty in which we are installed is directly voting, deciding as citizens in a referendum. As it seems to us that this young man must be useful in defeating immobilism – it cannot be otherwise – and in giving sight to our citizens, we will vote for it after making the right deal, they understand that the young man ends up saying what we have always said, and the way in which we have always worked: that we want to organize a reference with all the democratic guarantees that he is doing. We can only hear it this way. That is why we understand that the honourable Member explains that we want to follow the international standards, the contents in the Code of Good Practices of the Venice Commission, but also other international standards, therefore, contained in other reports and good practices of other international organisations. We understand that, therefore, this motion says that we want to make a reference that guarantees everything that refers to the electoral census, the right to vote, the participation, the campaign, the summons, the organization, the inclusiveness, the regulation, the validity of the result, the legitimacy and the legality – two very different questions – the guarantee body, the recount, etc. We wanted to remember in the House, through our discussions, that the Government of the Generality has the manifest will – so it has expressed on multiple occasions – to make this reference in an agreed and agreed manner with the Government of the Spanish State. We remember that we have a mandate in force in Parliament in this sense, with the resolution that has already been approved in the general policy debate. In this scenario of the given and agreed referendum, we want the Spanish State to look for the Venice Commission, because sometimes what it does to us is the standards followed by the Spanish Government at the time of organizing election days, and we can remember some episode of the external vote in our own elections, organized in the framework of the Spanish State and the Spanish State guarantee committees. Therefore, yes: reference granted and agreed, Venice Commission urged by the Spanish Government and compliment of the international standards in this reference. We understand that this young man must be the iniquitous of what his own days are: the Government of Catalonia will go to Madrid to make the last warning to the Spanish State that this reference to the granted and agreed – the granted and agreed. And if the Spanish Government – they, under their responsibility, under their decision – places us in a _mark that they decide not to dialogue, not to agree on this reference, the Government of the Generality must continue to work and will continue to work to complete the same international standards in the best possible way despite the political context in which the Spanish Government will place us, under its sole and strict responsibility, if it does not wish to agree on this reference. Then it will be at this moment that we understand that we will have to move and coordinate, and we will have to look at the eyes, if we really want our citizens in Catalonia to exercise sovereignty, if we really want our citizens in Catalonia to decide in which future country they want to live. It'll be at this point. It is very important that... if we believe that the citizens of Catalonia are sovereigns, and the Spanish State places us on the stage of exercising sovereignty, we cannot now accept impossible conditions for this stager when he arrives. And it's this part of the young lady that we wouldn't understand to interpret in this way. We can't put in any impossible conditions that make there a reference effect when it is more decisive, this reference, which will be when the Spanish government stops it, stops it, stops it, doesn't want to agree. Because it's in democracy, that we want to overcome the last of immobilism...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.81.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.82.0	... – I finish – and it's democracy – I'm not convinced – that we also have to find ourselves, and guaranteeing democratic standards, that we want to overcome immobility and start a process are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.83.0	Congresswoman, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.84.0	...that allows us to build a country that is fairer, cleaner and more dignified. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.85.0	Then, to fix his position, has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.86.0	Thank you, Madam President. « There is no point in a second referendum on self-determination in Catalonia after the 27th of September, « the referendum is a last screen, « the referendum that we were not allowed to do has already been done and has already been won on 27th of September. These phrases are not from Citizens, obviously; these phrases are from Junqueras, Mr Romeva, Mr Mas, or we also have tweets from Congressman Rufián in which he says: "I would say that – in reference to September 27th – "it was already a referendum; I would say that we already won it and I would say that we will not ask permission again. Good. This was the position of Left and Convergence until four days ago. You said in your speech, Mrs Rovira: "We have always asked... No, always not – always not – because on your election program..., oh, the self-determination referendum was not there; and on your government program, the government agreement..., oh, the self-determination referendum was not there. Supposedly you had already done it and already won it, and you were already, that..., organizing state structures to declare independence. What is it, Mrs. Rovira? Now that you are giving lessons that those who do not defend a referendum of self-determination are not democrats, what happens? That you weren't democrats back then, when you weren't putting in a referendum? Were they not democrats? [[Greetings.]] When Mr Puigdemont, to certain questions from the Podemos group, almost mocked: "But you again with the referendum..., man, please, but if we have already done so, were you not a Democrat, Mr Puigdemont? Or is it that when you stand up for one thing we must all stand up for yours in order to be democrats? Man, that's some commentator on some radio that does, and some television, that depending on what you say you're changing your mind, but are we opposition leaders in Catalonia? No, no, I respect all political opinions: those who want independence, those who want a referendum, those who do not want one thing or the other, those who want to reform Spain. Everything is respectable, legitimate and democratic – everything. What you can't do is try to deceive the people in good faith who voted for you, and there's a lot. It is not a social majority, no, it has never been, but it is an important part of the population, and you are deceiving them. They will not come to us later to say: "It is that you have deceived us, you have changed your mind forty times, no, but to you, yes. Many of your voters are going to come to you for explanations, because you are making a promise that you know you cannot keep. And you've returned to the 9-N stage because you couldn't move forward, and thanks to whom? Of course, to the priceless help, as always, of Podemos, that always, when you cannot move forward, there is Podemos to throw you the lifeguard. When you are there, there is Mrs. Colau, who goes with you to the independence demonstration; when you do not receive anyone, there is Mrs. Carmena, who gives you space to make your monologues for independence. Because, of course, Mr Puigdemont, that of discussing in the Senate with other presidents or in the conference of presidents does not like him much; he likes more the unidirectional monologue and the charlita that, sometimes, when they go abroad, costs us an eye of the face; already he could do it..., better to go there, that does not cost us so much. [[Some applause.]] We respect all opinions. You will continue to promise to repeat 9-N. They will not be able to hold a referendum on self-determination, just as they did not last time; they will not be able to do so. They do need three things: they need an accomplice to keep talking about the referendum to get us out of Spain and Europe, which is..., gentlemen of Podemos, that those are always delighted, never fail them; they need an excuse not to be able to celebrate it, and they need a culprit. I imagine, the culprit, who can be, I think there are quite a few ballots there, but the excuse you will have to look for will have to be also internally, and now to see how you blame yourself, between the UPC, Convergence, Left. You're already in the campaign, huh? , making separate statements and votes. But we will come back to elections, and you in the last elections said: "No, this is the vote of your life; for perhaps now you will have to say: "This is the revote of your life, because, of course, we repeat the same thing again. [[Rialles and some applause.]] The problem of the Catalans is not how we relate to the rest of the Spanish, the problem of the Catalans is not that in our ID card or in our passport they put « Spain and « European Union ; the problem of the Catalans, Lords of Podemos, is unemployment, corruption, precariousness, and that is not solved by a referendum. And I very much respect, as always, all the people who want a referendum of independence, many of whom think it would be the way to end all this: it is done the referendum, it is won and point ball. But I believe that, if we look at what is happening at international level, I believe that it is shown that referendums to leave the European Union or referendums without social consensus, referendums to lose rights, are not always a solution to problems. So this is going to be resolved by voting, of course it is – of course it is – and we are already asking for the ballot boxes. Let us vote – let us vote. But with guarantees, with ballot boxes that call us all, with ballot boxes that call to change government and not to change passport, with ballot boxes that allow us to get corruption out of institutions and not cover it. With those ballot boxes, the election ballots, we're waiting for you. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.87.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Next, the words of Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.88.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Our parliamentary group voted against the resolution of the debate on the general political orientation to which this motion refers. Nor do we form part of the National Referendum Pact, and therefore we can only vote against this motion without having to enter into the background of the debate, but in accordance with the proposed group and its intention, we want to fix our position. In the current context, an agreement between the Catalan and State institutions is unthinkable to convene a binding reference on independence. First caldria reform the Constitution, to make it possible. There is someone who says that it could be done with consulting character, but this is not what is claimed, and, on the other hand, there are many lawyers who say that neither a reference to consulting on this question is possible, because it poses in question, precisely, the article according to the Constitution. The Constitution can be reformed, but for the ways of reform that it itself establishes, without rights: the doctrine of the Constitutional Court is very clear. On the other hand, it is also very difficult to think about the viability of a negotiation when one of the parties has already said that what happens will call a referendum on independence in September or October. On the possibility that the same Generality rules or summons a referendum, there is no room for doubt: it is only necessary to recall the ruling of the Constitutional Court on the Catalan Law of Non- Referendum Popular Consultations or its recent ruling on the Catalan Law of Popular Consultations by reference. To avoid any doubt, we were reminded by the Council of Statutory Guarantees: "The competence of regulation and authorization in the field of referrals corresponds with an exclusive character to the State – unanimous of the Council of Statutory Guarantees of Catalonia. And, above all, he says: "Constitutional jurisprudence does not recognize the power of the Generality to regulate or convene a referendum consultation on the future policy of Catalonia. That's what a Catalan institution sorted for this Parliament says. But Catalonia Yes that we can..., Yes that it can say: « Posem..., « Yes that we can... [[The timer laughs.]] Yes, he can, but not with patience. [[Rialles.]] They say: "We have the Venice Commission ahead of us. All right, we absolutely agree. What does the Venice Commission say? That the judgments of constitutional courts have a defining and binding character – defining and binding. I am not surprised that there is some independence group that says: "Maybe we don't go to the Venice Commission or we don't make it all subject to the Venice Commission, because we won't do the reference. You're right. But that's what he says. And he says more, he says: "The judgments of the courts must be respected for all public bodies and people. To ignore a sentence is equivalent to undermining the Constitution. And, in addition, he says: "If a public official is refused to execute a ruling of the Constitutional Court he can be punished. These measures are legitimate. That's what the Venice Commission says. But it's what he says even more. Speaking of references, you have put a series of conditions in your mind that we appreciate, but it is that you have forgotten the first one. Who is the first condition of the Venice Commission for the reference? "The references cannot be celebrated if the Constitution or a law agreed with it does not stipulate it. We already know that Venice is sinking, we didn't sink it any more in Catalonia. [[Rialles.]] I mean, we're still serious about this. And, therefore, man, let's go a little bit into it. To think that the Law of Legal Transition, which is making itself out to Parliament, which is to be approved by one day for the weekend, will be able to take over the celebration of a reference, not fire it in the name of the Venice Commission; to "yes or yes, indeed, " referendum or referendum, but not to the Venice Commission. Therefore, we could very theoretically agree that you go to the Venice Commission to look for this endorsement, and we say to them: "This journey..., this one can be saved. It is only necessary to read what the Venice Commission has repeatedly said. Certainly, the Venice Commission, which has a name that would have to call all our attention, because the Venice Commission, if I don't have it wrong, is said European Commission for Democracy through the Right, or so, not the Right and the Reverse, but the Right. And, therefore, the Venice Commission is exceptionally restrictive in these questions. And you, if I may – and I say this with all your affection to my friend Joan Coscubala – have left this little first request of the Venice Commission..., have remained with very important requests, which we share, but have forgotten that any reference has to be adjusted to the state of law. As far as the reference that you want to celebrate does not fit the state of law, I cannot count on our support nor on our participation, and your young lady cannot count on our support. And we still have a question in the environment: whether you are asking for an agreement or an expected recognition of the European Union or adjusting to the Venice Commission. We have a doubt as to what will happen when, I don't know if we dilluns – as Mrs. Rovira pointed out – or when it is, it is seen that these conditions are not given. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Next, the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.90.0	Thank you very much, President. We would like to articulate the answer to your question in three points: the first is a public recognition of you; the second is a toilet – it was very nice, the first – and the third is to find an error, in our view, in its interpretation of what is the concept of social demand. Recognition: you have all the democratic legitimacy of the world to look for legal ways to look for a reference in a serious debate. You think that the reference is a solution, that there are legal ways. We think all the contrary: that there are no legal ways and that, moreover, it is not a solution but a problem, but, as a minimum, without denying that in democracy we can all think differently and establish this debate will be. And this is a recognition I want to make publicly. The toilet is that you practice a little bit of that that says the wishful thinking Anglo-Saxons, the thought of the wish, or, to put it another way, a certain naivety, because thinking that you can come to an agreement with people who have previously decided to disconnect is a little naive, with all respect. To think that it is possible to reach an agreement with people who have already said that, whatever happens to what you say to the young lady, the decision is already taken, so it's a little naive. How naive or naive it is to say categorically – this is often said – that the solution to all the political problem we have in Catalonia goes through a reference, when a reference has never solved these transcendent problems. Did you solve Quebec or Scotland, the reference, the problems? No, no, Did it solve the question of the European debate in France, the reference that Chirac raised in 2006? No, no, Has it solved the difficult constitutional crisis that Italy has had since twenty-five or thirty years ago, the reference of Matteo Renzi? No, on the contrary. Referendums do not serve to solve transcendental problems, as I will later prove. You want to consult the Venice Commission. Mr. Iceta made reference a moment ago to some of the things the Venice Commission said. It turns out that to the Venice Commission we have a català, Josep Maria Castellà – it's crooked, for the most part – and yesterday in the diary The country wrote an absolutely aseptic and exquisite article, in the measure that he did not give his opinion, but that he wrote the doctrine of the Venice Commission. Some things Mr. Iceta said to them; I will add a few, even though the first is shared. U: the committee defends constitutional democracy, a reference must always be under the legal order of the country. The majority of European countries, of European states, do not have, do not contemplate in their legal order a reference to independence, and this does not imply that there are no democracies – Germany, without going further. Two: Direct democracy is a complement to representative democracy; above all, it cannot be replaced when we are talking about transcendent things. And three: there are no European standards, as it is often said, which impose instruments of direct democracy. On the contrary: what there is, and the Venice Commission says, is a European tendency to establish mechanisms for direct participation in local areas as innovative experiences for concrete themes, never for the transcendent themes of a state. Therefore, it is perfectly democratic, to say that it is not considered a reference to solve a question as transcendent as the independence of Catalonia. That's what the Venice Commission says. And, as I have mentioned on other occasions, it is said to be democrats of crushed stone, like Sartori, Ignatieff, Dahrendorf, some of the best politicians the world has ever had. And that brings me to the last point: the mistake, in our understanding, that you have at the time to interpret what is a social requirement. First, the question of the reference, which was a past screen, was supported by no choice – it was also mentioned earlier. 27-S spoke directly of independence, in plebiscitaris terms, for those who called the elections, who lost with 47,8_per_cent. And why is it said that referral is a social requirement? Why if you ask me directly on a 70_per_cent poll and people's demand say yes? Is that really a mechanism? Is it a social demand, anything you ask directly on an inquiry and a percentage of more than 70_per_cent? It may not be a genius or an expert in statistics to know that a social demand, in statistical terms, is the spontaneous response of the citizenry before its concerns. And here is not the 70_per_cent and the issue, the reference, is the 1.8_per_cent, which, in a direct question about who their concerns are, say that the reference concerns them – the 1.8_per_cent. We are not before a social requirement. And I ended up saying that you know that. You know perfectly well, because they're prepared people and because they're educated people. And because they know perfectly well, too, because they know the story, that the references have never solved a problem of these characteristics. And they have right to try, because in the background what happens to them is that they are in front of a situation that is quite uncomfortable, because positioning themselves in these questions for you is delicate. You would like the Catalan policy more, therefore, in terms of left-rights– and, to me too, he said, go ahead, it would also be more comfortable for all of us– but, of course, here you are confounding, in your speech, that it is your party that is needed to try to fit in with it a debate that does not suit them with what are the real social demands to which he referred...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.91.0	Mr. Fernández, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.92.0	...previously. Therefore, this is the reason why we cannot raise any of the points of his young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.94.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Inés, you see I don't have enough hair to carry collections... [[Rialles.]] Well, I sincerely thank Marta Rovira and Benet Salellas for all the work we've done. Honestly, I think we've come to an agreement with Together for Yes, and we've established a disagreement with the CUP, which hasn't been easy, and I think it's an important thing. Today it is noteworthy that we have shared common elements: the Venice Commission, as a reference element, with its elements and requirements, which, in short, everyone recognizes – those who are in favor and those who are against this motion – that they should be those who have as a reference point at the time of pulling forward a reference to our home. I share what Benet Salellas has also said in relation to what guarantees and expected recognition are not things..., they are not the same, it is true. I think we need to make a guarantee reference. We have not raised the subject of this expected recognition as a condition or limitation. We have raised it, we have said it since the beginning, as an element to try to seek international support before a situation that is the total and absolute beauty against, on the part of the Spanish State, the celebration of this reference. And, we have said, winning this resistance requires increasing social mobilizations – and we have raised it – and also seeking the maximum number of allies. And that's why we, until all we thought was that it was the last screen and that we were naive, continued to work because today the National Referendum Pact can bring the support of a lot of people from the Spanish State and a lot of people from all over Europe to the referendum. And that's what we've done, because we've never taken the tablecloth out of a viable, guaranteed, effective, and feasible reference. And from this modest authority, let's say it's important, what we're doing today. Today we approve of a motion – that, because there is no doubt in its interpretation, fortunately it is written in Romanic, and therefore it can read well – which says two things, functionally. The compromise: let us mandate the Catalan Government to seek the anticipated recognition of the Venice Commission from the reference of the code of practical vouchers. And let's also say another thing: we identify great fears, great parameters, which can establish guarantees for the celebration of this reference, among which there are some of those that have appeared here, among those who are in favour of it and those who are against it. It's obvious this young man isn't going to solve a problem we've got ahead of us. We are four months away from the celebration of a reference – which was asked a date – and we have many questions. And the great ones must solve them all at once by the Catalan Government putting on the table a concrete proposal that we can discuss with transparency, those who are in favour of it and those who are against it. And in this regard, please, Mr. Vice-President Junqueras, I did not want to spend a minute more without making this proposal. But, sense of doubt, today we have advanced, in our hearing, modestly, in a meaningful way. I ended up with a question. I'm glad I did a complicated job, but I'm worried. They've...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.95.0	Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.96.0	... – I finish – you have added to the amount of people you say: « How do you try to talk and negotiate with that...?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.97.0	You've spent a lot of time, Mr. Coscubala. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Twenty-two are a lot in two minutes, huh? Five seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.98.0	You have said what a beast it is to say: "Is it not ready to seek dialogue and agreement with that people? If you don't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.99.0	I know very hard, Mr. Coscubala, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.100.0	...between us, if we don't understand each other, how can we get out of the situation we have at this time? [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.101.0	We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.102.0	To ask for a separate vote. We want to vote separately on the third and sixth points of the motion...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.103.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.104.0	...that they can vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.105.0	The third and sixth points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.106.0	Yeah. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.107.0	A separate vote has been requested from points 3 and 6, which can be voted together. If it seems to them, we'll start by voting points 3 and 6, and then we'll vote the rest of the vote. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, let's start by voting points 3 and 6. The vote begins. Points 3 and 6 were approved by 83 votes to 50, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the social demand for a referendum, of Resolution 306/XI, on the general political orientation of the Government was approved by 73 votes in favour, 51 against and 10 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.108.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the precariousness of work and the reconciliation of health professionals]] [[302-00144/11]] Too late to all and so to all. The point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the precariousness of work and the reconciliation of health professionals, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady assumes Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.109.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone. [[For technical reasons, some words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...honey. First of all, thank the papers presented by the various groups, and also the will to be able to reach the maximum agreement, to all the Members and Members. Also thanking the presence of those who today have wanted to accompany us. And remember a little bit of the motion: the motion sees an inquiry in which we say that during this time of detail and of harsh assumption most of the tensions have fallen on the professionals; professionals who have seen their self reduced, who have suffered drastic reductions in seedlings and who have seen that all this is compounded by precariousness and temporaryity in contracts, with a high index of interested parties and false eventuals occupying structural places. All these conditions, conditions and hardships that have been assumed by the professionals of our system, have made the terms of conciliation and personal and professional development even more difficult. It's hard for us to talk about a system of excellence, even though we like to do it, but it's hard if we're building it with some professionals every time we're less paid and more abused, which, moreover, they themselves warn of the difficulties of keeping their pocket, and their pocket with all the guarantees. But there is a very important part that I think is worth noting, which is what makes it clear that the ICS is the worst, compared to the rest of the service providers. Therefore, many of the things we put to the young lady, on which there are no more eventual contracts, on these contract changes and above all on the other hand..., is vagina stabilising the inters, but that no eventual, occupied structural square, is based basically on the ICS. But we also stand on the ground that we can't just stay on the ICS, but we need to shut down all public health enterprises, EPICs and municipal enterprises, but we also want to know what is going on in precarious and job-stabilization in the concerted sector, basically because it's, in good part, public funds and, therefore, we need to know who is the criteria and what their workers are like. Among other things, there has been a lot of feeling... a feeling from the TSJ that changes its criteria to see how much there is about eventuals. And it says for the first time the Social Room of the TSJ that there is a right-hand abus when a parallel template of substitutes is maintained to cover structural needs perfectly predictable. I believe that this feeling of the TSJ marks a very important point of inflection in which the doctrine has so far been on this subject and, therefore, helps us to clearly stabilize all the seedlings. The second part of the motion – quickly – goes deeper on the primary, because, if we really want to make a bet for the primary, first of all we should give the 25_percent of the premise, even though we didn't record it, but this would be the reality. But anyway, if in some place the precariousness is obvious, and the details are also, it's in the primary. Therefore, we plant that there is a stable endowment to cover the hundred_percent of the usual needs, as we begin to really think about the revision of the ratio of inhabitants per professional according to the professional profiles, territorial dispersion and socioeconomic indicators. All this connected with trying to simplify all of this once and to unburden all the structures of primary care. In this sense, President, if we can still enter into a new transaction so that all groups can agree – we have closed it now, just after dinar – in the sense of being able to agree and be able to vote on the criteria for reducing bureaucratic structures and simplifying all the commands. What we want to say in general... is what we all want: we want a new organization, which is much closer, with shared, more involved, motivated leaders, and which earns the satisfaction of professionals. There are many other points, the young lady; with this... I haven't had time to finish them, but in any case, we will also listen now to the papers presented, as we spend this transaction and get it to the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.110.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. In order to defend the papers presented, Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.111.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. Today we have an extremely important debate for this Parliament: to talk about job insecurity in the health system. It is an important debate that I think we should not have if things have changed this legislature. I remember: the last legislature, the time of detail, the unfair detail of the public workers, and now a legislature in which, well, the detail and the same system, therefore, of pressure from the workers..., has not changed anything and we still have the same. We believe, from Ciutadans, that another way of governing, of political iron, of managing the health system is possible. And that's why we've put forward proposals, you know, in this sense, to improve the health system. Well, some of them, you've heard me say them very often, but it's simply to keep patients and professionals at the core of the healthcare system. This is why we ask to depoliticize the healthcare structure, we ask to give autonomy of management to the centers. We have asked to take real primary care and make it a backbone of the health system. We did so on the premises; we said: "We would like the health care system to have a different premise, and now Mrs Escarp was commenting on it. And especially different for primary care, it's a question that this legislature hasn't been. And various issues that are extraordinarily important: work overload, bureaucracy, demotivation, etc. I remember especially being here, months ago, defending first an inquiry, after a motion, in which Ciutadans called for a comprehensive reform of primary care. And I remember especially how those mermaid songs tell us: "If everything is all right; it's not all so bad. If we visit too many centers, and it's not so bad either. Well, I would say: "Miri, I think so. People are anxious, people are overwhelmed. We need to reform, we need to change, we need to accept this. But the siren songs say no, they don't want to do it. Well, who has had a chance to visit Can Vidalet, now central to the movement of the primary care rebellion, people who are asking for things as complex as the most presupposition for primary care, how to actually take primary care, how to effectively position primary care between the central health care system... They remember this young man who has already been approved in this Parliament for many months? So, unfortunately nothing has changed. It has changed because these changes have not been implemented, it has not been a priority, after the division of the legislature, to make them come true. Mirin, the other day I felt the most responsible of the government in the matter of health saying that the storm to the health system had passed. And when I felt like he was talking about this storm that he was supposed to be leaving, I was thinking about our core again: patients and professionals. I thought: "So, I don't know what tempest you consider to have left. Because at primary care consultations, those consultations coll·lapsades day by day of primary care, rain every day. Because in the past of emergencies, in the emergency services of Catalonia, it rains every day. Because the patients who wait for months and months and months to visit them, who do complementary tests, diagnostic tests, are left frozen waiting for the waiting list. And it's that sanitation, we've heard it say many times, it's not a mountain range. The health system's not right, we know that, it's not new. But there may still be one thing worse, which is to deny this evidence, to say that we get out of the storm, when the health care system rocks, rains and freezes every day. Look, MPs and MPs, the workers are offended, the patients don't have what we think they could have with a different management system, and who doesn't recognize what we have in our health care system, we don't think it's going to be able to fix it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.112.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms Àngels Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.113.0	Yeah. Good afternoon. I was just passing through Mrs. Eva Granados the text with the acceptances of the papers, and it seems to me that they've been wrong, because I think they've posed that they've accepted as Catalonia's theme Yes, it's Pot a theme that it's Junts for the Yes. But it doesn't matter. I will, in any case, give them, for a band, my congratulations, congratulations and thanks for the motion they have presented, because it seems to me to be a calyx, it seems to me that it will be very good that it is complexi, that so good is complexi, and quite quickly. I, in any case, would mean four ideas which seem to us to have been collected, in the event that it has not been collected. In any case, then, as Mrs. Escarp will speak, so she'll make it clear to me. It is certainly true that it cannot be collected from the genera so, as is commonly said, because it turns out that if in the Public Administration what counts is merit and skill, then the genera are not supposed to enter. But in change, it does enter, then, when we look at the exact seedlings and look at the concrete application of the measures of precariousness, that this has the face of a woman; that in the squares, in the personnel direction, there are not so many women, as in change there is, yes, many more women..., the most affected by the most severe measures of precariousness. And this face of a woman –"precarity, moreover, is also female, unfortunately –..., and this precarity turns out that it is also given on the part of the user who responds to the impact of these flaps, of this precariousness, of these openings of the services. And I refer in concrete terms to the fact that I also asked that it be added, that it be the measures of non-domestic care and the maladies of the central sensitivity system, that is, fibromyalgia, multiple chemical sensitivities, etcetera, that it is not, that it was one of the important questions to take into account, and also, for example, in the pain clinic, etcetera, eh? That is to say, putting a woman's face to the precariousness means who suffers from the precariousness, who does not suffer it, or who does not suffer it so strongly, both from the point of view of the staff, as from the point of view of the users or patients of the system. This was a question that seemed important to me. The question that I also seemed very pleasant to contemplate in the movement and that I was especially pleased was this promotion of community medicine. And I had suggested that this year accompanied with a promotion, too, of the social determinants of salvation, because it seems to me to be fundamental. It's like, I think the best thing because people are dedicated to community medicine is that they are aware of the social determinants of salvation. And in this sense I will say to you: I recognize that I am not in the inn a day, but that in the library of the faculty of Barcelona, of medicine, when I had the opportunity to consult it, the last book I had bought of determinants of salvation was of the year 75 or 76, edited the 75 or 76. I mean, it's almost half a century ago. So, to hear that community medicine is about additional stigma, huh? , as they are an understanding on the part of medical staff, and I would say even more of the last radiology that does the last of the radiographs, of the social determinants of salvation, it would be phonenal. It's been a long time. I would say that it seems very good to me to debureaucratize and democratize. I, in this case, would ask you to see the way, too, to enclose with greater force the participation of users. And one of the ideas that I have been asked to talk about and believe that would help to democratize the system a lot would be the recovery that had been made from that rotating coordinator figure, that did not drive, that simply what it was like to get along, to mark some lines of action of the units that are drawn from work, and that it was, in short, a very localized, or very chronologically, very time-bound, and that at the very end of a very short time it is another company and, therefore, it was not created hierarchies between this organization. One chapter apart, if it's keeping him still, it's pay. I'm not going in here, but really... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Did they get it? So, out, that's it. Stop talking about this point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.114.0	Mrs. Martinez, I know very hard, but you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.115.0	I've spent my time, haven't I? No, no, so, look, that's it. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.116.0	I'm having a hard time, huh? But... thank you, thank you very much. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, has the word Ms. Maria Assumption Laïlla.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.117.0	Thank you, President. Once again, and it is interesting and necessary to talk about conciliation and to talk about precariousness in relation to health professionals, a sector that is certainly affected by the two conditions, and more at present, no one loves it, and also by the same structural genealogy of the system, twenty-four hours, all the days of the year, with different levels of attention, so that it surely demands an extra effort on the part of all and high specialization. And in this sense we share the concern that emanates from this movement, precisely for the sustainability of the seedlings in the health system, basically attend to the need for attention in the salvation of the citizenry. This is why it is important to highlight the role of the Employment Stability Guarantee Plan, to which this motion refers, as well as the role that will be played in all this by the quality of the employment contract in the public system, because it will be necessary to make an accurate diagnosis of which is the eventuality of the contracts in the health system so that they can also be transformed into the system's own structure, by means of an intermission and then in a much more fixed environment, and to reverse this eventuality, which is true that it can, therefore, do and reverse it. And all this without insisting on the importance of the call for a public offer of employment that took place this year 2017, because all this, above all, will impact especially in the primary, not just infirmary, but also in the faculty. We are aware of the difficulty of medicine and family and community salvation sometimes to find this recognition not only to the citizenry but also in the same structure of medicine or sanitation in the university world. Therefore, we must, therefore, give it this perspective in the world of sanitation and promote while it is possible to create these departments of family medicine and community medicine with appropriate barem, but always, obviously, without interfering, therefore, in the autonomy itself of the university, which this sees for a long time and I believe that it is one of the basic autonomy that can be preserved, too. We are also aware that a reform is needed, as this young man calls for, to the primary attention. And in fact, in this sense, the dilluns that I believe the spokespersons have been invited precisely to the presentation of the ENAPISC, national strategy of primary care and community health, which refers to all these modifications that will last in the sector of primary and community precisely in order to improve, therefore, three axes. Basically, two, but another third that you make in very important specific reference that is, for one band, the whole management part, that is improving the governance of the primary and doing it, obviously, much more operational, but also all that is the care part, because we fit or want to fit precisely these structures of primary and community to make them much more suited to the needs we detect, that each day is modified and that, moreover, they are focusing more and more on this world of the primary. And, as I said, a third pot, which is the decrease in bureaucracy. Those of us who have dedicated ourselves at some point in our lives to the health sector know how far-fetched it is many times, so, complement what our work would be, direct care to the sick or healthy people, in many cases, precisely for everything that the bureaucracy entails of a lot of delays that will last. And all this is what you plan, therefore, to reduce with the national strategy of primary and community salvation that is presented the week you go. And in this sense, that's why we don't want to vote or we can't vote favorably on point 9, precisely because we agree that there has to be a change to the management structures of the primary and community health, but we don't just want to take the SAPs, take the UGAPs, but we want to give an alternative to governance in this world of the primary and, moreover, to do precisely that if we mark ourselves for a while, that will all be contemplated in this national strategy. And, therefore, in this sense we are abstaining so as to give value to this important and necessary reform that we share that needs to be done. And, finally, for the 11th point of the motion, to promote a plan of improvement in the quality of working life, I said before, it is important to talk about professional, family, personal conciliation, workloads, gender, work, etc. And in this sense, our commitments, proposals and facilitating measures which are incorporated into the basis for the clock reform pact, which there is a specific point, precisely, that affects salvation and that we are aware that it is a minimum pact but that, obviously, they will have to last in a clear and meridian way in these own reforms that are due to be completed. And to finish, President, and for what you do at the last point of the motion, we agree to push a_mark of the public health system of Catalonia, but it is not only the competence of the Department of Health. We need to go with them to push him out of all the social workers involved. We come from one that was done in a normal framework much wider than what we currently have, so what we need is to value if in these moments between all of us we can do this momentum.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.118.0	Mrs. Laïlla, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.119.0	Yes, only, Madam President, in order to proceed with the separate votes, we would ask for a separate vote from point 9 and point 10.c and point 13, which, if it goes well to the rest of the spokespersons, we could vote together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.120.0	All right, thank you. Next, in order to defend the papers presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, has the word of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.121.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon. As far as we're concerned, we're going to give support to the entire practice of the motion, and I'm going to explain myself. Well, we, thanks to the last deal of the last hour, just before we start the plenary, finally, we will vote point 9, but in point 2, and I will explain, we will abstain. And we will abstain because, although we share the goal of the point, we cannot or do not believe that we need to link it, in a strict sense, to the Platform for Guaranteeing Labour Stability. Basically, because we don't share some of the things in the Job Stability Guarantee Plan and, therefore, we won't get into this point. In fact, there are unions of workers and workers in the world of sanitation who have already positioned themselves against or who... here I have the communication, Mr. Counselor, where they come to say that they cannot subscribe to the Job Stability Guarantee Plan for insufficient. Okay, but so we, in this sense, also share with them the analysis and diagnostics they make, we decide to abstain from point 2. We are very clear that it is clear that we need to take measures for job stability, and I think we would all agree on that. But this young man, apart from addressing all this part of the job stability, absolutely necessary and urgent work that should be immediate, addresses everything that is the debate, I think, that we have also been systematically here, that is primary care and how we can primary care. Primary attention was that it was the great damage of the retails in its moment, with a caressing, we could say, quite great, where it got to lose 20_percent of the premise and, therefore, it means that it has to work to address this issue. Because, in addition, strengthened primary care improves quality and health outcomes, diminishes some of the elements of the disease and ends up reducing the pharmaceutical bill too, because if it improves health, therefore, we have less pharmaceutical bill. We could find other elements, that strong primary care can also reduce overexposition to image diagnostics, etc., right? And, in fact, if we put it from the point of view of neoliberal logic, right? , this neoliberal logic that speaks of efficiency, results and results, with what I said to the principle of improving quality and results in salvation, we would find that it also follows this logic of efficiency, results and results and, therefore, enhancing primary care ends up reducing costs. Actually, it would be a win-win, wouldn't it? That is to say, for some people it would be a win because it costs and because it improves efficiency and efficiency and also improves the salvation of the people and, therefore, we can address some of the great problems and one of the great elements that also deepens with class inequalities and with this logic of going every time some, the rich, are richer, so they always have better greetings, and the poor are poorer and, therefore, always have better greetings. Therefore, ensuring that primary care is taken can be important and can be a good tool for preventing malalty and for protecting public archives. And that's why we, in some of the elements, or did we just look at a point that was important to us, right? Because it was point 9, we were talking about management autonomy, a concept that has become very perverted long ago and that we think we need to start overcoming, but not only because it has so far been the origin of all corruption phenomena or many corruption phenomena around the health world, but also because the basic areas of the ICS where this management autonomy has been applied have begun to appoint a person without place as director. Therefore, naming a person with assured docility. So, this autonomy of management, supposedly center, didn't end up feeling that way either. And then, in the compromise proposal, we did not, at first, agree with this idea of depoliticizing management, because in the background for us management must be planned following public policies, so this is politicizing management, but politicizing it..., that we would then enter into another debate about what..., but if one management is to follow a planning based on public policy criteria it is a political management, so therefore we do not share the wording. As I said to the beginning, apart from abstaining from point 2, we will support the rest of the movement with hope, but above all with the conviction that all the people who have been mobilized to launch manifests will achieve, together with the work we are doing here, finally putting primary and community care at the centre of this country's health care and health care.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.122.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.123.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable councillor... well, at the length of this parliamentary term, we have had the opportunity to discuss different proposals in relation to the health policy of the Government, in relation to health care in Catalonia. I believe that it has been a common denominator of all the interventions that have been made in questions and in motions and in proposals that have been made before the paper determining that health professionals have met the quality of the Catalan public care system. And I think that this motion that the Socialist Group is presenting today is going to do a bit of justice in all this situation that has been transversal, I insist, of all these proposals and interventions, that it is to recognize the role of the health professionals, but also to recognize that the work situation and the working conditions of the health professionals' group, therefore, in those years when there have been adjustments, details, etc., have been seen as being minor, have been damaged, haven't they? And, therefore, I think it is fair to try to recognise this situation and try to adopt agreements that allow us to grasp a little of this situation. And, with this will, let us address the debate on this motion presented by the Socialist Group. There is a program at the table, which the Government has presented, which has presented between the set of plans that the councillor from his name has presented to us, which is the Staff Stability Guarantee Plan, which, to say the least, is an interesting plan, it is an important plan, it is an expected plan, but it is a partial plan. Partly because it addresses only from a partial point of view a part of the problem of health professionals in Catalonia. It does not address the recovery of plants, it does not address the application to try to recover services, to improve services, to improve, in short, the health care to the patient, which is what the majority of citizens expect. I must refer to some of the expressions that were used during the interview between Mrs Escarp and Councillor Comín, in the sense that the Councillor Comín, in order not to disappoint, I suppose, the audience, ended up taking responsibility for the situation of the health professionals the Government of Spain. Listen'm, to Spain... – and not exactly the People's Party Government, because he referred to the 2010 Government, which was the Socialist Party, right? –, listen'm, in Spain they have adopted measures in relation to the public contract that has prevented us from adopting repositioning taxes that allow us to maintain seedlings, and we already agree, of course. It is that Spain, and Catalonia, there was also a crisis from which we are beginning to emerge. But, if I may, too, I let you give him a given, which I think is important, right? In this year 2017, in Espanya, in the conjunct of Espanya, in the conjunct of Spanish communities, health spending has exceeded the health spending of the year 2010, which was the one we always look at as objective. And the number of staff in the health care department, in the conjunct of Spain, has already exceeded the level of staff that there was in the year 2010. He said: « This to Spain. Yeah. And Catalonia? No, no, In Catalonia we continue with a presumption under the presumption of the year 2010 and we continue with a staffing table under the staffing table of the year 2010. And, of course, this reason you're going to put up with the table is that we're trying to make decisions that lead to this situation and we're at a better level than we've been until now. And that connects a little with what the counselor already knows: plans, plans, more plans, which, in short, we think end up imagining a reality. And the reality is that the government..., I insist, the government, possibly..., sure not for the councillor, but for the government sanitation is not the priority; they have other priorities, councillor. I know... you can have a good will, but your government doesn't have it, right? And the most obvious proof is that at the time of setting assumptions, at the time of prioritizing expenses, they prioritize other expenses, but they don't prioritize expenses and they don't prioritize sanitation. And that's a reality, we've commented on it some other time, and I think it's also put into evidence in this situation. With regard to the motion, our group, the People's Party, will support all points of the motion. An exception: I don't know if point 9..., said the MP of the CUP that it is the result of a neoliberal situation. I don't think so, because it's a system of governance with a lot of interventionist primary attention, and we agree, to reduce bureaucracy. But he doesn't propose alternatives either. It is to say, dissolve, diminish, dissolve... but do not propose an alternative of governance in positive. And, therefore, we will abstain, not so much because the Government or the Councillor presents the week that sees a new system of governance to primary attention, that we will already see as it is and we will already have an opportunity to assess, but because the young man who poses it is a dismantling of governance and then we will change. I don't know if...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.124.0	Mr. Rodriguez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.125.0	I'm done – I'm done. I don't know if we would change a neo-liberal model, but I'm sure we would go to a neo-anarchist model. And in this sense, they won't find us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.126.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.127.0	Thank you. Well, neither a neo-liberal nor a neo-anarchist model, I'm not coming out of the assembly now because no one would believe it. So, anyway... [[Let's give the rialles a round of applause.]] I said that on the mark..., dilluns who see or dilluns properly, the counselor presents this time not a plan, but a national strategy. I don't know, so we're not hanging. And, among other things, one of the things we believe is that this national strategy would have to gather some of the things that today in this young man are and are being approved. And among them is the change in organizational structures. What have we been up to? Listen, get those leftovers and let's work on the alternative. An alternative based on proximity directions, in much more involved directions and, above all, directions that arise from the same primary attention teams. So, this was the ugly, ugly landing that... that's why. The term management autonomy. I think here we've all been using it all the time and each of us have been using it differently. Well, maybe now is also an opportunity not to look at the term, but to agree on which are the management models not loaded with bureaucracy, but simply dedicated to health care, which is what it should be. Genere themes: absolutely agree, Angels, precariousness has genere and we have seen it. What happens is that with a public offer of occupation, as they say in the castle, "merit and capabilities, and therefore, it is difficult to introduce the terms. But we've introduced it to the fact that all the governing bodies are working with the equal presence of women and men. And in the university aspects basically what we want is for the people of the primary to feel recognizable. And basically a principle, that's what we say the other day, isn't it? When an IRM chose the square, it may not be clear which square it will choose, but it is clear – and this is currently being given – that it does not want to be a family member. And so, that's the principle we have to break, because he knew the precariousness when they did the..., huh? And, in change, when he's a student, and in rotation, and when he goes to the open doors he likes primary school; but in change, when he's sorted – and that's a reality – he doesn't want to be a family member. And that's what we wanted to change from the very training of medical schools. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.128.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mrs. Martinez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.129.0	Yes..., to ask for separate vote also from the emena acceptance of point 2.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.130.0	Thank you. [[Pause.]] A separate vote was requested on item 2, item 9, item 10.c and item 13. I understand that point 2 must be voted on separately, but 9th, 10th and 13th can be voted on...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, because you also asked for point 9. Therefore, can we vote first on 2, after 9 and after 10.c and 13, and after the rest of the vote? [[Pause.]] So, let's go vote number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 111 votes to 20. Then we'll vote for point number 9. The vote begins. Point 9_has been approved by 60 votes in favour, against and 71 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 10.c and 13. The vote begins. Points 10.c and 13 were approved by 70 votes in favour, against and 61 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on job insecurity and the reconciliation of health professionals was approved by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into youth entrepreneurship]] [[302-00145/11]] The agenda item is: Motion following the question to the Government on youth entrepreneurship, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Lord David Mejía. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, they already know that they ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence to be able to continue. [[Pause.]] Mr. Mejía, when you're ready.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.131.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, facilitate and help young entrepreneurs so that they can create their professional life project is the key and objective of this young man. The energy and illusion that entrepreneurs have at the time of setting up their businesses can't take them out, and we can't take them out even less from the Administration; all the contrary, what we have to do from the Administration is to boost this energy, is to boost this illusion. What we have to do is move them all our support. And what we have to do is give them concrete and specific answers to their concerns, in terms of putting stones on the road. But this has to be done by keeping the necessary tools. We have the resources to do this, but we need to find out who the tools are. We must be able to give a concrete and specific advice to solve those problems that each of these entrepreneurs has raised, engage them in the right direction and above all – above all – make them see that we believe and bet on them. So, what we're proposing in this young man is different questions. In the first place, be more agile and that there is less bureaucracy. We have already said in the question: we do not understand how it can be that today the city of Barcelona is not yet the only window, we do not understand it – we do not understand it –, they understand Barcelona as the perfect ecosystem to be able to develop entrepreneurship and to be able to develop all its activities. What else do we propose? We also propose to review and evaluate existing training and programs so that they can be as effective as possible, and also improve the customized training for each of these entrepreneurs. And I want to set an example for them. Look, coupon action programs that can be used on different issues – on issues of internationalization, on issues of web page development – are well-intentioned programs, but they are not as effective as they should be. And I'll put them in a real timeline of what happened to different entrepreneurs. Look, an Action coupon program started and was advertised in July. One entrepreneur met him in September, but as there are so many documentary and administrative passages, he carried out all these processes through Pimec. And at the beginning of October he submitted the request to the Generality. But it was not until the generation – until the generation – that is, four months after submitting the request, which was offered and accepted to be part of this program. In the requirements of this internationalization quota program it is said that the time to make its content and to be able to contract the services to be able to develop this quota is from October until April, and he has been given acceptance to the generation. Therefore, even if you have submitted and processed the documentation when you touch it, you will only have three_months of the seven possible for it to be done. We think it's not effective and we think it's what needs to be solved. Other questions that we also present in this motion and that we propose are alternative financing mechanisms or enhance technology transfer centres. In short, Members and Members, what we have is the opportunity to become the perfect allies of our entrepreneurs. This is to believe in Catalonia; it is to believe in the potential that Catalans have, to bet on them and to solve the problems they have, putting us to the height of their needs but also their demands. And, above all, make innovative and 21st century policies, forming part, from the Administration, of the solution and not of the problem, which is as often happens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.132.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Giner.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.133.0	Well, thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, we're facing a day of stories and tales, we're facing the myth of the youth entrepreneur. And it says the myth of the youthful entrepreneur because really if we see what entrepreneurs really come along in this case it is the entrepreneurs who hold a stake, those who can take care of in this unregulated jungle, in this capitalist jungle and this liberal jungle, where in the end it doesn't matter to be young or not, to have energy or not to hold it, but in the end you have money and contracts that you need to do things. In a totally unregulated market, in a market where it is not a priority, there are no public policies to prioritize proximity products, social value products, social economy initiatives or even those emanating from the very strong sectors of the Catalan economy..., in reality, this is before a jungle. Let us not say that we must not give support to private initiatives, let us say that we can take them forward, but above all they must do so – and that is why our ideas have gone, which, unfortunately, have not been accepted – with a fall in the territory, they must do so to promote the social economy and not the liberal economy. And, frankly, if they want to spend money, in accounts of donating money to entrepreneurs, donating money to regulate markets and to boost those areas where we can really find social value there. And it's the myth, so to speak, of classical liberalism, that everything..., fair competition works. In a market, for example, that of web technologies and computer science, where it is easy, we say, to highlight, there is already, and there are years ago, great operators that in the end they do it is to invade those ideas or to keep those ideas, therefore, to take them from Catalonia and take them to their own..., there on the bill, that in the end it is social capital, it is business capital that goes away. That's why we need to avoid it. I am saying this because we will vote against some of the points of the motion, which are precisely the ones dealing with the business angels, which they like so much to say, and the crowdlending, which we have to look for, including, as they were, these practical ones, basically because we are not in favour of the entrepreneurs or the people who set up private start-ups in this country being financed by great fortunes or by great inversions, which in the end are speculating with the economy of this country. It's a myth, it's a false lie of capitalism, that market deregulation and helping the entrepreneur to help society get better; it helps people who have resources to have more resources. Because, in the end, the best entrepreneurs of all are the ones who have the most money. And these best entrepreneurs are usually people who afterward have investment funds or business angels that come, therefore, from the countries where there are, say, such strong capital concentrations, or the very same ones that are here, in Catalonia, the hundred families, record it. These are entrepreneurs, the hundred families. These guys are really good at everything they do, really. Mr Florentino Pérez, this is a true entrepreneur. The people of my barri, Cornellà, to undertake, what do they undertake? A local trade? , a local need linked to the territories or the bars? That's what needs to be regulated; that's what needs to be taken care of, that there aren't big chains like Dentix, for example, leaving 1,500 places at a time, but the same people in the bar can offer these services to their veins and veins; the people in the countryside can offer nearby products. Because, in the end, the economy is based on the interchant of products. And if the products that we interact with each other are property of the great owners and the great capitalists who come to invest in this country, in the end it is speculation with our economy. They want to create quality and they want to create enterprise? I regulate markets and give social value and proximity value to products that are being donated. But, well, we'll abstain in the points where it increases, say so, or we want to invest more money in which is to give money to young entrepreneurs, then young entrepreneurs, who eventually end up in the pockets of the big owners. We obviously believe that there is a need to promote initiative, say, social and economic. And, therefore, we would vote in favour of all those points, in particular the 2, 4 and 9, and the 6, which offer the possibility of access to technological tools such as optical fiber, which is a very necessary thing indeed – regardless of how we understand the economy, regulated or deregulated, I think it is necessary – ; access to public mechanisms or depending on the Generality to the technology transfer centres – we believe that this is a good policy, because it gives certain social value – ; increase the training of professionals already working in these sectors. And, well, in the end, it is important that professionals who work with what is said by entrepreneurship have certain social values and certain proximity values, and, in the end, they are not advisors to create online casinos, for example, which are now making and giving more money, but they are advisors for real dynamism and creating products that contribute quality to people's lives. And it's that success, the success of a entrepreneurial life, is not earning more money, it's not accumulating capital, but it's making better their lives and the lives of those around them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.134.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Giner. The words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.135.0	Well, good one's late. Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to thank the honourable Member for his willingness to make an extensive motion, let us say, of course, that he will have, I think, a great deal of acceptance, and therefore it is good to be able to work and negotiate and agree on these issues, which I believe are also important for the young man in this country. Because, if we talk about young people in this country, we will talk about many things, not just business, obviously: we will talk about a very precarious employment situation, we have not spoken many times in this Parliament; about calamitous youth situations, which are incomparable situations to other European countries, and therefore we must also start to put different solutions, not exclusive or unique, in this sense. As you know, my group has defended many times active employment policies, in this case, for which the young people of our country are, but it does not seem to us more, in this case, to bet on the youthful entrepreneurship of our young Catalans and Catalans. But we also want to say something about the subject of entrepreneurship, and it seems good to us to empower it, but obviously it has a dark face that is sometimes not mentioned. These days, sometimes, we talk about entrepreneurship– and I won't do it, like Giner, "of entrepreneurship, because it seems to me that the name already says it all – but the youth entrepreneurship also has a dark face: the autonomes, like some of them see, like poor conditions many times and as we see some entrepreneurs, so they see fully exploited, also indirectly, and end up feeling alien workers working like autonomes, many of them. Therefore, we must also ensure that, when we foster youthful enterprise, it is also of quality, there is no better example of setting public foundations for young people to be pre-characterized in another way. Obviously, for what it does to the young woman, therefore, we cannot be, for example, against the assessment of public policies; it seems to me to be a totally essential point, it should, in fact, be an essential point in any public policy that is faith in this country. And, obviously, it seems to me as a waste that the foundations that are given to different programs directed at young people, in this case, too, of entrepreneurship, are assessed. Since it cannot be otherwise, we also care and believe that it is important to put innovation down in the production sector. We think it's a pocket hanging in this country for a long time; we've worked on it a number of times to try, and we think it's important that the people who want to start making clear what innovation opportunities there are in this country and that they can be translated into the product sector without much problem. Our group has done some research on this young man who has been accepted. I will highlight a particular one, which is what makes reference to the Eurecat and the call of the Red Cervera, which is still to be seen, is still to be realized. Let's hope it's not too late. We believe that this country cannot afford to lose any chance it still has of investing in the young people of this country. Therefore, we believe that it is important that, once the Red Cervera is concrete and there are funds allocated, so the young Catalans can choose it as any young person in the rest of the State. So, we think it's a good point. And last but not least, I think it's very important, and here I want to make a special mention of it, it's the theme of extending the optical fiber network to any guy in Catalonia. It is not a trivial issue, it is not a technical issue, it is a topic of opportunity, of bringing to any raccoon from this country what truly supposes a very important change in its connectivity, because this will generate opportunities of entrepreneurship, obviously, but also of formation, also of connectivity, also of many other issues that also interest our country. And sometimes we focus a lot on issues that affect only a specific part of the territory, and we have people in the area where this problem is still a vital one today for anything they want to do. Therefore, we appreciate that it is included. And we will vote in favour of the motion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.136.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. The words of Mr Bernat Solé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.137.0	Thank you very much, President. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies... Mr Mejía, let's go and talk about Sergi, the Sergi of the Masnou that you mentioned, a young entrepreneur, who at that time was working or is still working on his own and who wanted to undertake a project of entrepreneurship. You said that the Sergi for labor questions could not access the training plans that are due to the end of the government, precisely for the topic of the schedule. Well, proven this theme, so, as you know, the formation that is taking place at these times has different ways. There's a first mode that's totally face-to-face, there's a second mode that's semi-presential and there's a third mode that's at a distance. So, in this sense, there's no problem. From all angles, we, as a parliamentary group, will support this petition that you have made to increase late hours, precisely, therefore, to continue working and continuing to adjust training to the needs of all people who want to undertake an activity. A formation that we understand must be continuous and of quality so that these professionals take on the skills, the experience and the background of the project in order to be able to finish these projects. And in this sense let us also put into value all the initiatives that the government is due to term through, for example, the Emprên network, with one hundred and twenty Catalan entities that are part or part of or with three hundred technicians who work to support entrepreneurs. Precisely, the area of entrepreneurship and training does every year actions to improve vocational training; therefore, here we respond to the will that these plans are self-assessed and are values, therefore, their viability. In fact, the GEM report for the year 2015 was presented at the time, and it is already advanced that the next May 31st will present the corresponding report for the year 2016. For another band, you also asked for this follow-up that is done through these. Precisely from the Department of Enterprise and together with the Department of Work, through the SOC secretary, there is now and throughout this month a matter of satisfaction addressed to both the technical staff of these training programs as well as to all the people who received these services during the year 2015. Therefore, we also compliment your petition. And, for another band, so, it's also working because the Galileo SOC portal encloses this query service. For another band, we are also talking about expanding these trading opportunities and, therefore, promoting this transfer of technology and knowledge. As you know, there is the RIS3CAT programme, which precisely, therefore, promotes collaboration programmes for these young entrepreneurs with universities and research centres. At another point in your job, and it's the only one that we don't agree – I've already expressed it at this point – is the membership of the Eurecat network to the Brain Network. Not precisely because we, therefore, do not agree with the objectives of this accession; in fact, we agree with any adherence whenever this brings benefits to our networks, so our unfavorable vote at this point is precisely because we do not know the detail of this Cervera Network and, therefore, when we know the details of this call, we can value, and in a responsible way, whether it is adient or not adhering to it. Neither can they forget how they can facilitate new entrepreneurship projects through alternative financing lines to the usual ones, taking into account that these entrepreneurship projects, therefore, are especially specific. As you know, Catalan alternate funding entities have been accredited as an instrument to give them the necessary reliability, the same way that through workshops and showrooms organized by the Department of Enterprise within the territory, so these tools have also been placed at the forefront of all entrepreneurs; such as crowdfunding, crowd equity, or crowdlending. You, Mr Mejía, also speak to us about the deployment of the optical fiber of the territory, as the other Members have spoken. Totally agree, we are totally agree. We are in complete agreement and, moreover, we support the Government's intention that today is already reaching various cities in the country, and in the next few months, therefore, this network will expand. And in this sense we invite you to support this national pact for a digital society, to put in a single table all the administrations because these jobs benefit these young entrepreneurs. For one band, therefore, to achieve this technological need, but for another band, to achieve this territorial balance and equal opportunities. Miri, Mr. Mejía – and you sure share it –, being of the Pyrenees, being of the Lands of the Jews or being of the region of the Garrigues does not have to be a condition to be able to develop a project and, therefore, in this sense, we give total support to the petition that makes to develop the optical fiber. For another band, as you know, from the Labour Commission, a study committee on entrepreneurship and self-employment has been set up, precisely to create this area, this area of debate, this area of work and to achieve, therefore, basic agreements so that today it is self-employment is at a first easier and, above all, it is also more viable. He also put on the table the need for administrative agility. Well, let's just say thank you to Law 16/2015 today...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.138.0	Mr. Solé, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.139.0	Well, just to finish, 905 municipalities are already joined, which represents 96_percent of the population. Just need, as the city of Barcelona has said, that at the end of the year it will be like this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.140.0	Thank you, Mr. Solé. Next, in order to fix his position, Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.141.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, Catalan society is one of the most dynamic and entrepreneurial in Spain and southern Europe. For this reason, when there is a reformist government, such as the current Spanish government, which is now an established government, which facilitates the return of credit to families and businesses or reactivates the labour market, the most well-connected regions, such as Catalonia, are the first to liberate productive forces, to grow, to create employment and to give more opportunities to young people. Catalonia has everything to be the best land for young entrepreneurs, but we kick a government of the Generality that is a stick to the wheel. We are a processist government, a government that is dedicated to spending money and public resources and energies on creating unproductive political structures, while trying to create economic instability threatening to break the law. I will show some examples of the wrong priorities today. The assumption in youth this year is inferior to the assumption of 2011 and 2012; the People's Party managed to get the Generality a support for young people during the worst economic crisis of our life that the party-processors who support the current government and therefore enjoy an economic recovery. The 2012 Generalitat youth policy programme was more than 35_million euros, now only 30_million euros. In 2012 the Catalan Youth Agency had a presupposition of 20,6_million euros, now only 18,3_million euros. Another example of how the process of production on the coast of Catalonia is that in seven years the assumption of policies to promote employment has fallen to 8,3_million euros. Another example is that the Generality is not a hundred_per_cent committed to the Youth Guarantee, it could do much more. Only 50,000 young people benefited when there were some 250,000 in Catalonia who neither studied nor worked. The government-processor has disconnected from the young Catalonia, also from this young Catalonia that interrelates with the world, the Barcelona of start-ups, for example, or from companies that have good products and have good services and that could export. During the worst economic crisis of our lives, the Generality has reduced the pressure on aid to economic internationalization, on aid to the internationalization of enterprises while multiplying the internationalization of the process: higher charges of those who cover more than a minister and no one knows what they are doing, more trips from the world to demonstrate the lack of allies of the Generality, payments to lobbies without transparency, etc. And it is that in the last five years the Generality has focused on feeding the separatist political bubble and not giving response to the social and economic needs of Catalans. Another example is that last parliamentary term the People's Party presented a proposal for a law of entrepreneurship, but the party-processors did not allow their debate. We proposed to facilitate the financing of entrepreneurs, micro-enterprises and peppers or to establish a comprehensive support system for the entrepreneur. Some business-friendly financiers; unfortunately, in the later years the only business that has been interested in certain games is the business of the process, which distribute many grants and place many people, but which leaves behind the vast majority of Catalans. That's right, we pay the bill among all of us. The Catalans suffer by decision of the Government of the Generalitat the highest fiscal pressure of Spain. We have a close memory of tributes between all the autonomous communities and the tax types are in almost all the higher sections, they are only lower, precisely, in that section that affects the higher sections of the Generality. In short, they spend more resources on propaganda and agitation rhetoric than they do on helping young people build a better future. This has to change, and that is why we will vote in favour of this young man. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Milián. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.143.0	Well, thank you, President. Isn't the accountant going? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is that why everybody's going through this? Oh, yeah? Well, as some of the speeches before us have also pointed out, neither are we ever supporters of the praise of entrepreneurship as in political discourses, because it is a way of diverting attention from the real reasons for which places of occupation are destroyed and not enough are created and, obviously, it is a reality that affects especially the young person, the sector to which the young person is addressed. Living as we live in an economic system that has been around four decades ago has decided to move capital towards financial and speculative returns because they were higher, while deindustrialisation began, because it is also a division of a working class that is highly syndicated, living, therefore, in capitalism, in short, we can say that the creation of jobs does not depend on the individual abilities of each individual, which is in a certain way the one that reinforces the discourse of entrepreneurship, but is a fundamental political issue. As a society, then, we could decide that what they call more masters, more doctors or more people who take care of our great people or, at the very least, we could decide to work less hours and distribute the work. This is our way of seeing why there is so much and why they don't believe enough places of work. It can be seen in this way or it can be said, therefore, that "business will free you up and move responsibility towards the individual and encourage self-occupation, that many times – as has already been said – is self-exploitation. Entrepreneurship is a way; the social economy, co-operativeism or the growth of a public sector, that we would agree that it is efficient and of quality, therefore, are other ways of creating jobs. But the speech which and we already have in our schools an optional assignment that is called, so, this, "business, when there is no saying "rights to work, there is no saying "union action. That said, the House is assuming a retreat of good practices, with which it is difficult to be against it and, therefore, we will vote for it mostly in favour. That the government's programs are being audited, that access to training is being facilitated, or that optical fiber is being stretched, as has been said, so obviously we are in favour. The points to which we will not support will be the first, consistent with our vote against the Law of Administrative Simplification, and the set, because it is required to form part of a network without knowing previously in which conditions. It is, in our view, the point that least fits in with the rest of the youth, but you understand that you wanted to put it there to remind us that Catalonia is part of the Spanish State. And that's the way it is, as Hugo Chávez said a 4th of a fever, "for now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.144.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.145.0	Thank you, President. Well, first of all, I wanted to thank all the parliamentary groups for their willingness to try to agree and make a better move, both to Deputy Bernat Sole and to Mr Pol Gibert, to Juan Milián, and also to Joan Giner and Albert Botran to hear the general concept of this young man. That said, I'd like to make a series of considerations. Congressman Giner was talking about our potential for the neoliberal economy. Well, you don't surprise us with your speech, do you? But, look, I don't know if he remembers the question we were asking about this following motion, in which we taught a news story that said that 46 percent of young Catalans wanted to start their own company, they wanted to start their own company. Do you think all this 46 percent of young people are suffering? Are they neoliberal? Are they demons? Capitalists? [[Greetings.]] So, we don't think so. Do you know what's going on? That what we want to do is give the tools to all these young people and all these entrepreneurs so that they can develop their professional project. Regarding Juntes for the Yes, we did, we could get to a transaction for the unique window. It is true that they have reached 905 municipalities, but the city of Barcelona, which is the great city of Catalonia or one of the great cities of Catalonia, and where there is more scope to grow, has not yet reached it. So, we'll be looking forward to it, even though we've been able to get to this deal. You were talking about the programs, that they were of quality. Yeah, if I don't deny that the programs are of quality. Do you know what the problem is? That they're not effective. And precisely on my first return I explained the theme of the Action coupon program, which was not effective because they lost many and many months the young people they wanted to use it. With regard to the times..., well, what has surprised us is that you don't fessin' at what we're used to, "contining' to do, "contin' to establish. Well, because that means there weren't these late hours. You gave examples and corroborated this, because you said that there are semi-presences, but they do not exist in the late days. With regard to the questions of satisfaction, we are glad that they are already coming true, that they are working there, but I think it is late, because they have been doing these programs for a long time. And finally, respect the Red Brain, we regret that they don't give the support to this point. Let's hope they don't act like presidents and leave the fall empty and lose opportunity... or, in fact, Catalans lose the opportunity to generate new jobs. Of course, yesterday the President of the Generality said that we did not submit statements to the suppositions in favor of Catalans. And, look, it's not like we're not presenting exams, you know what's going on? That we negotiated the assumptions and got concrete parties...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.146.0	Mr. Mejía, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.147.0	...directions – I finish, Madam President – to the Catalans, and this shows that it is the 500_million euros that go to the Red Cervera and that good part of these can go to the conjunction of the Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.148.0	Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Botran, you have requested a separate vote from points 1 and 7. Was that why? [[Pause.]] Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Mr. Giner, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.149.0	To ask for separate votes from points...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.150.0	2, 4 and 6, 9, you said, didn't you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.151.0	Wait, there must be some more... [[Pause.]] All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.152.0	Can they vote together? [[Pause.]] Can they vote together? Yeah? [[Pause.]] Points 2, 4, 6, 9 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Mr. Solé, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.153.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.154.0	Point 7?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.155.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.156.0	Yeah, it was already in demand. [[Joan Giner Miguélez asks to speak.]] Mr. Giner, tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.157.0	2, 4, 6, 9 can be voted together, but 8 must be voted separately. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.158.0	Yes, yes... Separate votes have been requested from points 1, 2, 4, 6, 7, 8 and 9; but 1, 7 and 8 shall be voted separately and 2, 4, 6 and 9 may be voted together, eh? [[Pause.]] Let's vote, first place, point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 112 votes to 18. We will continue to vote on the points together 2, 4, 6 and 9. The vote begins. Points 2, 4, 6 and 9 were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 49 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, 10 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Youth Entrepreneurship Movement has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into the misuse of public money]] [[302-00146/11]] The new item on the order of the day is: Motion following the question to the Government on the misuse of public money, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose her, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, be quiet so we can continue with the session. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.159.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are bringing today the motion on misuse of public money. I was asked by government banks who this government motion is addressed to. Well, it addresses, first of all, all the Members, the whole Chamber; we also address the citizens, and the entire government in full, to make good use of public money. This is a widespread concern among citizens. In times of crisis the money of our taxes has to be applied to the things that interest all Catalans, to the things that revert to a better quality of life of Catalans: in health, in education, in dependence..., in dependence, not independence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And we, modestly, have wanted to contribute our sand granite, as the main opposition party, and it is a rather simple motion. It contains, in its simplicity, very clear points, for example: Why are you spending money on travel, on going to meet the Tea Party, with those of the Finnish far right, Mr Romeva? Why do you have international relations with those of the North League, the extremists of the North League? Why do you invest money in these matters? In this motion, we ask you to have a concrete plan for each trip, and to make it clear in the plans for each trip that you want to promote Catalan culture and economy. And, if not, don't spend everyone's money on these trips, which also do them no good because they don't have the slightest international support. It's very sad, and since it's so sad, we ask you: don't do it anymore, don't spend Catalan money on it. [[some applause]] 'Cause it's a little sad, 'cause it's bad on top of them, it's bad on top of them. And, then, we ask for transparency measures, which every time you make a trip, Mr Romeva, you, who is the Transparency Advisor, to inform us of what has been done and how much has been spent point by point and for what, with what results. And this is one of the..., of what I have already said, it is very simple and very modest, but I am sure that citizens will really like to know whether or not you vote in favor of realizing why you use everyone's money when making the trips. We have also called for a reduction of 75_per_cent of the games that you spend on autobomb, in publicizing the normal work of the government, in promoting what a government does that they pay for, but you then advertise it as if you were doing a great thing, and also many times it is not even true, as when you attribute merits to the management of airports that are not your own, and yet there you invest the money. We also ask that the use of social networks be regulated by the members of the government, because there is some counselor who seems very normal, so to promote from the Twitter of her counselor the party acts that she attends. That's a partisan use of public resources, and that's something so simple that I think everyone understands it and that's why we bring it here, to see what you vote for and to see if we really regulate things more in line with what citizens, no doubt, are interested in and want. Look, two more points to finish, then I will refer to the amendments that you have tabled to us. Rationalize the public administrations, that eager reform of the Administration to reduce fat and have muscle: more cops, more firefighters, more sanitary, more doctors, nurses, etc., and less high positions. And then we ask for a significant reduction in the high finger charges and also in the money that is used to pay them, to pay many times political chiringuitos for their friends, well watered..., with whose money? Of all, of all citizens. And that's why this is a motion about the misuse of public money. And that, the administrations, the rationalization and the salaries... And then, as I will later refer to, for example, in the office of self-government, the famous..., the famous Institut d'Estudis de l'Autogovern would be a well-used money if you used it in an improvement of self-government, but not for studies that serve to feed your co-religionary friends and to enhance things that are outside our Statute of autonomy and our Constitution. Then I will refer to the reforms that we have..., to the amendments that we have accepted. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.160.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word the Lord Albano Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.161.0	Thank you, President. We are ahead of the typical monthly motion on democratic regeneration that is supposed to represent Ciutadans. I suppose they must have some application to the mobile phone that, every once in a while, warns: "Hey, we have to present something about democratic regeneration and corruption, and all that, don't we? To keep the mark, right? He must have done a market study. I'm imagining myself as a marketing department of a food rental soap company. You know that all our lives we've seen that every week, every month, they announce us rents and every month they're us, right? « New rent... And of course, they always do the same thing, don't they? Come on in, and sometimes you don't, but fine. Now, I don't deny that we're before a worrying situation, among other things, because the government has another organization that is also in the process of regenerating the market, right? ; an old and opaque product, which now we change the packaging and the name, and it seems that neither has passed the king. We share the concern with Citizens and understand that, in the end, we live with this opaque structure that has been created for decades in this country, and therefore, things must be done, and proposals made. But precisely because the situation is serious, the proposals and the work proposed must be serious. You said it yourself: they are very simple proposals. Jo, more than simple proposals, I see a riot, don't I? There are interesting fears that the young man will raise. Now, either it's planted incompletely or it's planted directly poc rigorously. Therefore, we, except at point 3, shall either abstain or vote not. I'll give you an example of this rigour with which to deal with the issues and which this young man doesn't. Says: "Radify, we have to rationalize Administration, right? And he's been using this little little political gargoyle, hasn't he? : the political bars, which... would just be missing, we agree. If Convergence has created – it has created – entities that the only one they do is to escape democratic control, political control, too, and, therefore, the problem is there. Now, we are concerned that when you talk about "political syringuites, and totally consistent with your ideology, you want to take the "political syringuites" to put business syringuites to work. We are also against this framework that has been created since the successful governments of the last years, but precisely to put it under the political control of the citizenry. Therefore, we understand that the public sector bothers you many times, we understand that this atomized public sector and the "xiringuit" created by this government and its predecessors, so we are also concerned about it. But this proposal, therefore, does not fix the situation, nor does it make a clear proposal to regain political control. And, yes, I claim political control of the situation. Because political control, if it's right, is the control of the people over their administrations, about their institutions, and, at the end of the day, about their resources. Therefore, I have already said the meaning of our vote. I understand that this is a bit of a bummer; or else, to talk about taking the representation expenses off with unifying joints..., forgive me, you're afraid you're going to have to deal with a little bit more seriously. And I'm telling you, you're afraid of what to talk about, but coming here to do the headline or the propaganda... And I understand – and I understand – that you had a product problem, not a political problem, a product problem. I mean, that's what a storage cabinet would say: "Ostres, count! , we have set up a party from which its center will be democratic regeneration. And, of course, it is that everyone is seeing that without you Rajoy could not continue to rule, we are seeing how Cifuentes is there thanks to you, and, indeed, I imagine that your marketing department must have a huge problem, because the report is unravelled and you have to come and carry it. We are willing to talk and dialogue, but not to solve your marketing problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.162.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. The words of Mr. Jordi Sendra, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.163.0	Thank you, President. I will expose the position of Junts for the Yes in this young man, that we will reject globally, carried from point 4 and point 5.b, in which we have reached a transaction with Ciutadans, done that we appreciate but that in essence does not change the true feeling of the young man, that we reject absolutely. For what it does at point 1, we give absolute support to external action, not only the President and the Government, but also other figures of Catalan politics, such as President Mas or any ex-adviser. If this applies to Spanish politics, you might understand that you don't want the Spanish government's representatives to do public diplomacy. I can't imagine Aznar, González, Zapatero fent d'Obama, Clinton, Maragall or Mas. For what it does at point 2, Catalonia's external action is essential for our country, and it is not only from the cultural or economic point of view, but also from the point of view to explain to the world what is happening in Catalonia. But from the economic point of view let me remind you: Alibaba, the Chinese electronic trading giant, wants to set up in Barcelona the logistics center of southern Europe ; Volkswagen, more than 3,000_million euros to its subsidiary in Catalonia in its own five years ; Griffith, food industry, new installation in Valls, one hundred_five working places ; Elis Manomatic, French multinational, 21_million euros, industrial bugaderia, Zona Franca, three hundred new working places ; Lidl, chain of German supermarkets, parcel·la of 120,000_metres_quadrats in Martorell, distribution platform ; Thunder Power, Hong Kong, sector of electric vehicles, 80_million euros to the European supermarkets, parcel·la of 120,000_metres_360 squares, distribution platform, Hong Kong, logistics center, logistics center, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre, logistics centre. It is clear, therefore, that thanks also to the external action of the Government of Catalonia today our country is one of the best in Europe to invest there. Ep! Despite the process. But it is also very important to explain to the world what is going on in Catalonia, and it is thanks to the internationalization of the process that the Government and President Puigdemont, and President Forcadell, and President Mas, President shamefully condemned, and civil society, and other actors, that thanks to all of this today a lot of countries, countries of the world, come to know from this civic, peaceful and democratic process to achieve independence from Catalonia. And also express their concerns about the pre-democratic reactions of the Spanish government and its allies, such as judging elected representatives for the people to want to give the view to the citizen. That is why we will vote against point 2, and also point 3. Because all the information we ask for can be consulted in the transparency portal and in the document on the execution of the presumption that is periodically transmitted to Parliament. With reference to point 4, we will vote in favour, because we have already dealt with Ciutadans in our own way. And just like point 5, which we will vote against globally, carries point 5.b, which we have also traded. The rest of point 5 and in point 6 is quite obvious our discontent with its views, and we will vote against it. I think that you are creating the arguments of this motion and, therefore, ask them to present it immediately to the Congress of the Deputies, because there their members of government will be delighted to accept it and disassemble it, to retaliate salaries, reliable staff, presuppositionary parties of protocol and representative attentions, to suppress autonomous entities, to merge joints, to limit external action, etc. And they want to argue about the misuse of public money? What's the big deal? : maintenance gardens residence of the embassy of Mexico, 40,000_euros; rehabilitation of the embassy of Panama, 650,000_euros; rehabilitation of the residence of the ambassador of Copenhagen, 525,000_euros; closure of the garden part of the embassy of Tunisia, 250,000_euros; maintenance of the garden of the embassy and the residence of Bern, 60,000_euros, etc. Present her to Madrid. But make it quick, because later it will be too late. And I say that it will be too late because, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if at the leadership of President Puigdemont and the Government, to the support of this Parliament and of Catalan civil society, today we add the support of Nobel Prize-winner Desmond Tutu, Adolfo Pérez Esquivel, Dario Fo, Rigoberta Menchu and so many other personalities who have given support to the manifest Let Catalans vote, and if, moreover, we add the support of Viggo Mortensen – Aragorn, the capacity of the poor free of the War of the Ring – then I say that this does not hold up neither Sauron, the evil. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.164.0	Thank you, Mr. Sendra. Next, in order to defend the papers presented, has the word María José García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.165.0	Thank you, President. Counsellors, ladies and gentlemen, well, this motion raises two issues for debate: one, how public money is spent by the Government of the Generalitat, and two, if the transparency of this Government is adequate and sufficient. With regard to the first point, it is clear that this Government does not use resources by prioritizing essential public services. When Councilman Romeva told us that 74_per_cent of the budget of 31,000_million is allocated to social spending and that this is the most social budget in history, he is not telling the truth. All you have to do is go to the Generalitat website, to the budget portal – what the advisor has not done – to see that the generalitat's public money is not 31,000_millions, but 38.061_millions – here they have it. [[the speaker shows a few fulls to the chamber]] – and see that we lose about 4,000_million in financing the network of consortia, foundations and public enterprises of the Generalitat, with high positions with salaries even above the Government itself; 6,000_million more that we lose in debt, and finally, to education, health, social services arrive 4,800, 8,800 and 2,800_million, respectively. In total, 16,400_million. If we estimate 1,500_million more consolidated public health companies, we would have 17,900_million, which divided by 38,000_million gives us 47_per_cent. In other words, the social spending of this Government does not reach half of its budget. Much would have to slim the Generalitat to spend 74_per_cent of its budget on social spending. Counselor, we lack 10,000_million_of_euros in education, health and social services to truly make social spending 74_per_cent of the public money received by the Generalitat. And you can check it here, on the Generalitat website, budget portal. This Government has a wide margin of quantitative improvement to increase social spending, fulfilling its obligation as an autonomous government, which is what this public money receives for. But the moral margin is also very wide. Indeed, as the Councillor told us, there are expenses that are not so important but that remain. What is 64_million for outsiders in a budget of 38,000_million? 0.17_per_cent, a minute, but that would give enough money for twenty schools in barracks to stop being so. The Generalitat does not have the legitimacy to spend our money or to do politics, because that is to use in a partisan way the institutions that are of all, or in competences that it does not have. Counselor, it's immoral to spend everyone's money without legitimacy. And that is why we will support the motion, to which we have tabled some amendments, for example to prevent the cuts proposed in campaigns and advertising from affecting information in safety, education or health. We also call for the abolition of the Catalan embassies abroad, which are doing more to make policy against Spain than in favour of the Catalan economy. And, sincerely, it has surprised us that Citizens do not accept this amendment and propose to us a transaction that consolidates these structures of the separatist state; because that is for the Government, unlike Andalusia, that is not in this separatist process. We do not understand this turn of Citizens, giving up supporting ourselves in what we were defending together the last legislature. We're not going into that lukewarmness. And in relation to the second issue, transparency, the truth is that we are before a government, this one and its predecessor, not less transparent, but directly opaque. For example, it prevents Members from having access to the information that we ask for and that may be sensitive to them. For a sample, the nine months my group spent asking ex-consellera Rigau for a list of schools and institutes where some Spanish subjects were taught. According to her, 12_per_cent of the centers, but to give the list, nothing, even after we ask for amparo from the president of Parliament, the previous one. And two months ago we asked for it again in a motion on multilingualism here, and the parties supporting the Government voted against it. We have also asked for the linguistic projects of the centers, information that the department has and that has denied us; we have the right to have the, and has sent us to the websites of the schools, about four_ thousand schools. This we understand is a mockery and an insult to this institution. I announce that we will ask the Government again for the list of schools that use Spanish vehicles, and also the linguistic projects, to see if now, after this motion on transparency, we have more luck. And a third example. My group has called for the government's public agendas, as detailed and accessible as those published by Members, to be published. This request was tabled in committee by the groups supporting the Government : the PDECAT, Convergence and Esquerra, and the CUP, also the CUP, collaborating in this strategy of opacity with the Government. This request for public agendas of the Government we include today as an amendment to the motion, to see if we are more fortunate today, that we are talking about transparency, and we can finally know what the time our president and each of the councillors devotes to. Also as an amendment we present the obligation to submit a detailed annual report on the expenditure on protocol and representation of each department, because we are in favour of reducing these costs, but we believe that it is more realistic to ask for this report. We have already tabled it as an amendment and it has fallen to us, that of reducing expenditure; this report is more realistic to ask, and if we achieve it it would be more useful for everyone. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.166.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.167.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, Members, Members, well, to the motion that Ciutadans has presented there are aspects that my parliamentary group will consider and others to which we cannot give them recollection, right? We're concerned about the Ciutadans movement, when this immersion in the rationalisation of the administration... we think that there has..., behind this will to suppress organizations, public enterprises, just what there is, we believe, is an attempt to laminate the public sector, huh? , the public policies that we defend, that there are many citizens and citizens of Catalonia who defend. We also believe that local corporations should be eliminated, because I believe that also in the background of the proposal that you are making there is this proposal. And it's true, President Puigdemont's government has more and more personnel, if any, than there were in the President's government, but this is a reality. I don't know if it's due to the need to complement the various political formations that form this government and the independents that make up the majority of the parliament... which is due to this increase in the number of other bodies and possible ones. It is true, there are many of these high offices that we do not understand that there are higher wages than those of counselors and counselors. This was denounced by my parliamentary group, and we have seen... not surprisingly, but we have seen as in the guinea pig assumptions, which approved this chamber, in order to try to save this situation, so some of these higher charges cover a euro less than the councillor or councillor respects. I won't comment on that, because I have a lot of minutes. Yes, it is necessary for the Government of Catalonia to be a more transparent government. I listened attentively to the Member, who now does not see, of Juntes per el Si who has made the defense of the position of his parliamentary group respect... – ah, now the see, that you do not..., not the see. [[Rialles.]] You criticize the cost of the diplomatic service of the State. Miri, we... I will not criticize the foreign policy of the Government of the Government of Catalonia. Now, my parliamentary group would really like to know that beyond the sluggish speeches that we sometimes listen to in this chamber of the same councillor we may know with detail not only the agenda, but the costs of the government's external action. What does it cost us in euros and dollars to contract lobbying that is used to explain..., and what certain means of international communication explain the political action of the Government of the Generality? And I don't criticize what you're doing. What we need to know is what this costs, because it has also cost my parliamentary group to access this information. Well, from some information, they didn't want to facilitate these costs. Taking advantage of what? So, taking over the Data Protection Law, you know what, Mr. Romeva? , of the foreign policy of the Spanish State. Well, I think we need to know these data. We also need to know that it costs us that politicians from other countries, usually the most conservative and helmets, therefore, to listen to the political plans of the Government of the Generality. I have already announced to Mr. Carrizosa that we will withdraw the message that we have presented, because he has already voted; I am talking about the fact that he does not enter the Palau case court as... on behalf of the Government, well, the Palau Consortium, as part of the alleged illegal financing of Convergence, because yesterday he has already voted. Now, more than he voted here yesterday, that I suppose it should be to reassure the various consciences that form part of the parliamentary majority of Junts for the Yes, I would like to criticize in these few seconds that I remain is that the formal and real position that the consortium held yesterday is that agreed by President Puigdemont and Vice-President Junqueras dimarts passed to the council's session, unanimously, seconds explained to us the Councillor Munté, who gave instructions not to change the position of the consortium in the court proceedings in transit.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.168.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.169.0	Well, very late. Several things in a short time, many of them relevant and not all make reference to Ciutadans, which is the proposed group, but to other parties, and therefore I will try to have time to approach it all. It is a young man who, as we have seen, addresses different questions: the first bloc would tend to see foreign policy, let's say so, and with the complaint, in some way, because it restricts the representation that may exist in foreign policy; that it is a way of regulating travel, which, in his opinion, could only address economic or cultural questions; and, in a third level, therefore, what you would repeat to each session of the CAI, so what you have to see with this presentation of reports, right? I think that from the bottom... it's obvious that we won't support this first block because there's an anthological difference between you and us. You defend the exclusive powers of the State in these and other matters, no. You, for example, have no problem with the Spanish monarchy also assuming the diplomatic and public representation of the State. In fact, you don't even have such a problem with the monarchy itself. You say that as with the Constitution of 78, people have already expressed in favour of the monarchy, so it seems to them that it is an absolutely legitimate system. Perhaps you should know that in Catalonia less than three people each gave support to the Constitution. In fact, the leader of our parliamentary group gave support to the Constitution; some because we didn't have time to vote for it and those who did, because they obviously voted not to. Therefore, the problem with your background is that the Constitution serves you as a tool to coerce any debate and claim to solve here things that obviously you do not have resolved at the level of the State. There is another part of the motion you have to see..., at first we thought you had to see, perhaps, with a lack of experience in the management of the Public Administration, the point you had to see with the modification of the Royal Decree of Finance to make all the claims foreseen in the assumptions come true. This, in the end, you have dealt with it, so I do not enter into the content that I intended to say to you, but I do come to say that the one you have traded does not mean anything at all. And, therefore, we will end up voting on something that you do not say, that you will say that, to the extent possible, the assumptions are complete. You're right. In principle, if there wasn't this point in this place and we didn't vote for this, say, we would follow exactly as we were. The fact that we would like to tell you, that it is not the same need in the matter of sanitation or education, for example, that the need that you defend that you must have the security of the city, when you defend, obviously, therefore, more weapons for the police. I believe that this is not necessary for people's material comparable, for example, to access, therefore, to housing, sanitation or education. There is another package that you call, therefore, "to avoid the public money partyer, and what I understand is that we also have a difference in what we understand by the public money partyer or not by the public money or whatever it is. Maybe we'd have to settle for the same thing when we're talking about partyism, because for you partyism is defending the right to self-determination, and for us it's the essential right of all peoples. And so, of course, how we no longer agree with the previa, everything that came from here, so we certainly don't agree. You think he's a public-money player, the campaigns he's doing at the generality's advertising level, so the fertilizer, generically, undistinguished, and they're planting a 75_per_cent return on these parties. If we need a little more, if we develop and if we land a little more the proposal we may agree on some questions, but obviously reducing at this time a 75_per_cent of these parties may want to say, for example, that the campaign is not deployed that we do not want to press on the right to the information of the avortion or against the violence of the gene, for example, and, therefore, we cannot support it either. There is another aside, which is a large block, too, of "ration" – you say – from the Public Administration, where there are, therefore, aspects that they have to see with the joints, with the upper ranks, etc. At this point, therefore, we would support reducing a 10-percent of the Generality's high salaries, because already in the presuppositional debate we presented a theme in this sense. We went further, and so on, and thought that there was a reduction of 14 per cent. And a last step, which they have generated, there, last minute, with the People's Party, some points that were not foreseen, that they are, supposedly, about transparency. Jo, what I'd ask you is that before I agreed with the PP aspects that I have to see with transparency, it looked a little bit. Because it represents that they are now giving us lessons from the transparency that must be held by the high offices of the Government of the Generality, which in this we could agree, but it is no longer necessary that we go to the transparency that they have or do not have those of the Spanish State's execution, or the deputies of the Congress. Here, the deputies of the People's Party of this chamber, since the obligation to make public our agendas comes into force, do you know how many acts Mr. García Albiol has made public? Zero. It represents that since the legislation – which the Bureau notes of the failure of the Members of the People's Party notes – comes into force, it has not done any political activity that it deserves to be scheduled. Mr. Alejandro Fernández, zero. María José García Cuevas, the only one who records all the activities he performs. Hope Garcia, zero. Andrea Levy, zero. Juan Milián, zero. Fernando Sánchez, zero. Sergio Santamaría, two. Alberto Villagrasa, zero. Marisa Xandri, zero. Gentlemen of the People's Party, who don't do politics, do you, or do you not want to be wise? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.170.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, in order to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.171.0	Very quickly, to thank the amendments tabled by Junts pel Yes, by the People's Party and by the Socialist Party, which, in the end, dropped the amendment they were submitting, which was indeed the character as an accusation in the Palau de la Música affair, but as we all voted in that sense yesterday, its usefulness is already declining. That was an example of good use of public money, investing in the recovery of public money. Some members of Congress did not make it clear. As for the words that have been spoken here by Podemos, he criticizes us for working and says that we present a motion every month. Well, I think it's also better to fight corruption to present many motions than to go on a bus in Spain, but perhaps those who don't work like to walk on buses or play games of these computers to fight corruption to look at what on the mobile, which is what you are dedicated to. Let's see, Junts pel Yes..., well, in Junts pel Yes, here we were told that they are supertransparent on the issue of travel, but since December 2016 the web is not updated, eh? ; it's not all hung up on the web, because it hasn't been updated since December 2016. And it has also made us funny how in that list of companies that are located in Catalonia, the merit that Mango, which is a company here, is in Catalonia, seems to be now going to be Mr. Romeva's. Anyway... The PP has sought, with some of its amendments, to mitigate the effect of the reduction in the auto-bomb campaigns; we have not been able to accept them. Socialist Party, Mr Terrades, we have called for an increase in teachers, and I have said that here, of firemen, doctors, police, that is the muscle of the Administration, and precisely not wasting money allows us to devote it to what is useful for citizens. Maybe I didn't explain myself well enough. And, finally, to the CUP, well, we do want to see the maximum execution of precisely those items that are committed to social issues, because sometimes it seems that the most social budgets of history are presented, but then only 20_per_cent of the item intended to pay for energy poverty is executed, for example. Those items should be implemented and that is also a good use of public money. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.172.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.173.0	For allusions, President. Remarks by the Member of the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.174.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.175.0	Good. Thank you, President. Well, the use of personal attacks, even with names and surnames, pointing out..., we see that, well, it is a classic style of coercion, which seems to like the UPC very much: against the lawyers of the Parliament, against the deputies of the People's Party, against the officials, against any citizen who dares to reveal what we have shown today, that you are necessary collaborators in the opacity of the Government. And if the agendas of the members of the Government are not to be published, it will be thanks to you to collaborate with this opacity and vote against them to publish the agendas, as we are doing by the Members. Thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.176.0	Mr. Sendra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.177.0	For allusions, and also to ask for separate vote in point 4 and point 5.b. On the subject of allusions, say to him "carryingly to Mr. Carrizosa: what I wanted to say is that, with this from Mango, the allusion that I made to Mango, what I wanted to say is that despite the process, not so many more come from the stranger, but those who are at home do not just go away, but more invest.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.178.0	Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.179.0	To ask for a separate vote on points 4, 5.b and 6.d.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.180.0	From. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.181.0	To ask for separate vote as well. For a band, it would be point 1, 6.a, 6.b, 6.c and 6.e. I, for the other, the 2, 5a, 6.d, 6.f and 8.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.182.0	Well, it's been asked to vote separately from points 1, 2, 3, 4 and 5.b, 5a, 6.a, 6.b, 6.c, 6.d, 6.f and 8. In principle, 4 and 5.b could they vote together? [[Pause.]] Don't you? They say they don't. And on the 6th, 6th, 6th and 6th, could they vote together? [[Pause.]] Neither do you. Well, then, it seems to me that we will have to vote separately from all these points. Well, then, we'll vote all these points and after the rest of the vote. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 34 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been rejected by 34 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been rejected by 59 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 110 votes in favour, against and 20 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.b. The vote begins. The 5.b_point was approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 5.a. The vote begins. Point 5.a_has been rejected by 34 votes to 83, with 13 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 6th. The vote begins. Point 6.a_has been rejected by 34 votes to 86, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.b. The vote begins. The 6.b_point was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.c. The vote begins. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What. The 6.c_point was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.d. The vote begins. From. The 6.d_point was rejected by 54 votes to 61, with 15 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 6.f. The vote begins. Point 6.f_has been rejected by 33 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 34 votes to 71, with 25 abstentions. And then we'll vote for the rest of the vote. The vote begins. The motion on the misuse of public money was rejected by 47 votes in favour, 71 against and 11 abstentions. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into capitalism, work and life]] [[302-00147/11]] The twenty point of the order of the day is: Motion following the inquiry to the government on capitalism, work and life, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Mireia Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.183.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, today we have to start an inquiry into work, capitalism and life talking about the collection of workers and workers from the estiba, and send them from here our most fraternal embrace and solidarity. Yesterday they told us immature in this very House to question the approval of the royal decree to the Democratic Party of Catalonia, and today we have responded with a letter, not to the President of the Government, who was asking the form, not to speak of the foundation, but to the stables and the stables, showing them our most sincere support and all our solidarity, which will not serve to overthrow the royal decree, already approved, but to reaffirm the conviction that being at their side when it comes, and this, in short, will mean a wave at the ports of the Catalan Countries. Perhaps they have made a bad calculation of those who have not taken into account the dignity of those who know that together and organized it is possible, and, in fact, already the international trade union of the estabadores has announced support until the last consequences to all ports where they have trade union affiliates. Before we went to school, we made a long time because we understand that intervention..., or to talk about work and the labour market has to be talked about a lot of things, and therefore we wanted to make a complete motion. There is a first part about the construction of the Catalan Countries with the demand for studies and jobs on the industrial fabric, labor market and chains of social economy, solidarity and cooperative; a second part, on quality in the work, where there are fears of occupational health, linked to the criteria of the Sub-Directorate General of Medical Evaluations, so that it is shown, before being approved, the future convenient. We talk about inspection of the work, we talk about public contract and minimum wages in this, as well as conditions for public contract by the government. We're talking about home and home care work, and this guy's recognizance. Let's talk about changing the SOC Law, about those articles that establish private management of work intermediation. And we are also talking about social concertation and facilitating the entry of a third union to public bodies. In this later point I want to return or we want to return to the pretended immature politics of those who do not want to play the know-how of parliamentary cordiality and pactism, that in labor matters and the hands of parliamentary groups and unions of concertation have brought us to those Catalan countries torn by the crisis that we described to the inquiry. And we know that at many of these points that we are voting today, we will be more alone... practically alone or losing them. But we understand that we need to bring these speeches here, that we need to talk about these things and from these approaches, because – and I end up doing as we do with the cards from the stables – we will not win in this Parliament, because unfortunately, and by a great deal of good will that we have with this young man, there is little margin, from this chamber, to capture the situation of the labour market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.184.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. Next, to defend the papers presented, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr. Marc Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.185.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mrs Vehi, miri, of the very poetic, attractive title that we like very much of your inquiry, "Capitalism, work and life, to what you said to the inquiry, there is an important distance, but between this title and the final motion, we have to take the relationship with clamps. I don't know what you have to see – I don't know, huh? You will tell me – the construction of the Catalan Countries, for example, which is, as you said, the first apartment, with the title. The rest, yes, are detailed of various themes, already dealt with in this Parliament, some of them already approved and others in articles that you have already presented in some other motion and that have refused or changed. Therefore, in the content of the quality department in the work, there is nothing new, except the points on home care workers, which you have said, you have quoted them, and which we appreciate and value positively. In other words, that between the poetic title and the shield barricaded from the young man, if we were misconceptioned– in fact, you said something like ‘we have to carry these speeches here–', we might think that it is more an act in front of the gallery than an initiative with insoluble and measurable objectives. But this – this – is just a misconception, and each one does politics as he wants, as he can or as he knows. So, you don't do me or you don't do me, let's go for concrete things. The papers we've submitted to you. The first point, in relation to ICAM, was that we wanted to put into value what we had already approved to Motion 96/XI and which is still within the scope of the compliment check, and which claims with other words what you also asked for at your point. And, therefore, to avoid the danger of widening the compliment control three more months, we asked that the government present in one month in this Parliament the medical criteria of the downloads that we asked for in that young man. The second point, in relation to the job inspection, is also an addition to another approved motion, in this case not completed – I am sorry, not completed – of presenting a specific plan of struggle against fraudulent contracting. Panels 3 and 4 have also been discussed in other motions that you have tabled. We believe that it is not the Parliament that has to say the numbers that have to be paid by certain workers, nor their conditions. We believe that this is usurping the paper of collective bargaining. And, in turn, what we can and must demand is that, as a minimum, any public contract is in accordance with the sectoral agreement of reference of the contracted activity. And exams 5 and 6 are also to revalidate approved and not completed, or not sufficiently completed, points for the Government of the Generality. The 5th in relation to decent wages, establishing a minimum wage of reference by agreement between the parties, claiming to whom it has the capacity to change the minimum wage, which is the State, so that this one is close to the 60_percent of the average net wage, as called for by the European Social Charter – which, of course, you have not accepted, is curious. And another, increasing to what the Government of the Generality can do, and does not, as is the increase in Catalonia's sufficiency income indicator in the same sense that the minimum wage, so that, with this measure, we can raise this further. And item 6 is also a point approved by Motion 10/XI, so that in the presentation of the SOC Law the public and free character of all active policies is guaranteed. Finally, with regard to two sides of his motion that we would not vote in favour, the first is for the side of the construction of the Catalan Countries. Miri, we agree on the concept of cultural unity of the Catalan Countries. We could agree on the willingness to share political aspects, as much as you need, and administration. But who are we to organize studies on productive chains or on the situation of the industrial fabric of the Valencia Country, of the Islands, when we are neither able nor able to keep our own still sufficiently straight? I understand that in democracy we are not the ones who decide for the others. That, it's city decisions and citizens of these countries. I think it would be worth thinking about all the folds – not you, huh? , all – about the consequences in the recent past of a certain bitter pan-Catalanism that has helped the survival of a predatory right in these countries that have known how to use it skillfully as an excuse. It's just... I leave it here as a reflection, that I think it would be worth it if we did all the folds. The other is about the point of social concertation. You see, you are asking for the institutional participation of a third union. Miri, the Organic Law 11/85, of 2 August, of trade union freedom, establishes the institutional participation of those trade union organizations with the consideration of more representative. And it is considered more representative the unions that have more than 10_percent of the representatives of the workers; in the State and Catalonia, the unions that exceed 15_percent of their scope, whenever they have at least 1,500 representatives. Therefore, first, they do not depend on the government, but on an organic law; and, second, two, three or twenty-five unions can participate, whenever the most represented, guaranteeing, logically, the parity. And I suppose we would agree on the fact that we have to take account of representativeness. In any case, most of the motion will approve. And, in any case, what we are asking for is separate votes from points 1.1, 2.3.a and 2.3.b, on one side, and points 1.2, 1.3 and 4a and b, on the other side. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.186.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Then, in order to defend the papers presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words of Mr Pol Gibert.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.187.0	Thank you, President. MPs and MPs, counselor... today we have a young man here, let's say, lençol, with a title, as it was said before, poetic. A title that already predicts complications and that ultimately the motion and its negotiation, so it has carried them, right? We finally had a little time to hold the motion as it finally did. It's not a criticism of the CUP, it's a general criticism of this Parliament, it works that way. So we find each other more than once, don't we? This motion, as has been said, draws back various points, many of them covered in other motions which we have previously voted on, some of our group, others of other groups of this chamber, and which, therefore, makes us position in a different way to different points which have been expressed. Interesting things I told this young man. So, as I said, a retreat of early appearances on occupational health, as is the case with INSS, which we are totally in agreement with; themes of transparency that we also see very well. And, above all, it incorporates a message from the socialists, also agreed with the proposing group, with the Constituent Creed, with the UPC, to prevent a _second drop for a different reason to the first try to go back by inspection of the ICAM. It is a subject that has been called for by various groups and which, therefore, we are also bringing here today and hoping to approve on this occasion. Obviously, we want you to pass with family doctors, which is where you should pass and not pass one ICAM inspection that we know is hard one time and another. The subject of the job inspection? So, focus on the fraud, on the contract and in cases of industrial accidents. Totally fine. This Parliament has voted a few times, there have been a few motions for respect, PR. Therefore, we are more than agree on these issues. Also, for what makes the appropriate sectoral collection, the public contract, and just as our group asked a moment ago in a motion in this Parliament, so we agree that these conditions should be incorporated, basically also to begin to overcome the phase of business agreement over the sectoral agreement. Don't we agree? So, obviously we do not agree with the part that makes reference to the Catalan Countries. More than just because it seems to me that doing a study, an inventory of the machinery of the past twenty years in València or the Balearic Islands seems to us that it is not very relevant for this Parliament, that much work has to do to complete its competitions. It seems to us that if you want to do it the Valencian Community, Illes Balears and the company, therefore, that they will do it with their own competitions without any problem. And my question is, why don't we do it with Aragó? We also have a number of obvious economic complicitys that could also force you to study compared to them. We also have an important part of the presence there and I'm sure the Llevant is very – very – in agreement to do so. Also a point that seemed surprising to us, that is to force by political means the presence of a third union to social concertation. It seems to me that it is a subject that, as you say, is social, it is not political, with which the thing to do is that the people who represent the workers are agreed between them and who best represent them have, in this sense, their place where they find themselves. That's what we had said before, too, that if we agree that the workers vote in free elections and, therefore, in their three-member representatives, then we don't have to be the ones who decide who represents them, but they do. Finally, I would also like to comment that there are some points to the SOC Law that is to reopen a law that has recently been approved. But it's that here we also find something contradictory, it's that they ask to do a workspace on the SOC processings from here one_month and modify the law from here three. We believe that it is relevant that if there is a working group that they want to create, so work quietly, have their working time. And, from here and what this working group says, open the Apple of the SOC Law and don't do it apart, without knowing what this working group is saying. Therefore, our group in the different points will position different ways. And yes, that we demand another shot, that the motions arrive with enough time to work them properly.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.188.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. Next, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.189.0	Thank you very much, President. So, yeah, we're meeting a long man. In fact, it started feeling a little slower, but with the incorporation of the different elements of the different groups, so there was a long force. Commenting on its proposer, it deals in its first point on the Catalan Countries, the quality of work, work greetings and inspection of work, public contract, home care workers, active employment policies and work concertation. In her question, Mrs Vehi pointed out some of the causes that they can argue – and, in fact, they argue this – which are the reasons for the social inequality that we live in our country: an increase in the inactive population, temporaryity in contracts, young people's plight, labour leftlessness, low wages and workers at risk of poverty. And it was pointed out that these are not the fruit of natural catastrophes. And even here I believe that all parliamentary groups could agree: they are not the fruit of natural catastrophes, but of conjunctures, according to the world. He also said that we are aware that many of these limits, so we can't, from the Government of the Generality, solve, because we simply don't have the skills. And that's true, we also agree on that. And they told us it could be more. And it is true, the counselor – who certainly greets her – in her inquiry also commented that we are working as much as possible among our own competition mark. So, it's true, inequality exists, it's one of our futures. But also, it is true, there are some considerations that, while this inequality continues, the economic situation that we live in at these times is not exactly the same as it was a few years ago. The year 2015 and 2016 have recorded records of exports and exports of enterprises, international investments, tourism and international tourism, which demonstrate the success of this internationalization. The industry has created mechanisms, created large places of work, there is an increase above all of the occupation and we have increased above all to levels higher than the rest of the State or of the same European Union. At this point in time, in the first quarter of Catalonia, the economy grew by 2 and a half percent, and therefore, it is true, the economy improved. But, it is also true, our future challenges are reaching sustainable growth, quality in employment and, above all, sustainability. The councilwoman reminded us before: we have risks, we have challenges and the government has to work; but unfortunately, many of these challenges, we do not have them at these times of competition. Going to the police station. The young lady, as we said, is long. On the first point, in the Catalan Countries, we can agree on the fund, and therefore we will vote in favour of the first two points. It is true that some of our companies commented: Catalan countries are not only the Islands and València, it would be the Catalonia North, or the Alguer, or simply also the Strip of Ponent, but we do agree to try to find mechanisms of exploration and work together with the others..., with the Valencian Generalitat or the Balearic Islands. Therefore, we would vote in favour of the two points. In the matter of work safety, we thank Mrs Vehi, therefore, that we have reached some agreements in order to be able to vote jointly through the transactions to which we have arrived. We would like to recall, therefore, that ICAM follows a working methodology based on practical and clinical guidelines, endorsed by international scientists. On the inspection of work, we have also reached agreements, important agreements. We all want to fight fraud especially... fraud is one of the problems we have in our country. We have not been able to agree on the issue of public procurement. It is true that there are directives. These directives are not binding, they simply say they can serve as a strategy to avoid these wage differences. We have proposed proposals in the line of being able to go demanding, but in no case can we assume the content of the motion. As far as we were concerned about non-professional caregivers are concerned, we are obviously in favour of these people getting to have..., getting to cook. The reader before me commented that there is a mistake in our task, we should incorporate that it is not the Parliament that urges the State, but that "the Parliament urges the Government that urges the State, therefore, we would ask you to be modified, from this point of view. The point that refers to the municipality and public administration, we cannot agree with it. We respect the municipal autonomy of local authorities, the management and organization of social services. And, in addition, we want to highlight that the third social sector has an experience and important knowledge that we want to put in value. With regard to the modification, therefore, of the SOC Law or the social concretion, we will not vote in favour. We will not vote in favour because we believe that the SOC Law is a law passed in 2015, at these times it is in full deployment. The SOC will have a working paper on the deployment of the same guaranteed income and, therefore, we believe that what we need to do is to try to deploy, so this law that was costly and expensive to approve, and in any case, we would look at whether or not to change, if we see that there is something that cannot be changed. Therefore, we are happy with the transactions to which we have arrived, therefore, with the CUP. And, therefore, I already announce, President, what points we would call a separate vote. We would call for a separate vote on point 1.3, 2.3.a, 2.3.b, 2.3.2.a, 2.4.2, 3.a, 3.b, 4.a and 4.b. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.190.0	Thank you, Mrs. Beer. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.191.0	Thank you, President. Reading the motion and listening to the previous inquiry, the conclusion is that behind that transgressive and revolutionary appearance of the UPC is nothing. They release a couple of prejudices and repeat four fetish elements. Because starting a motion on work with a section entitled « built from the Catalan Countries as it sounds like autoparody. They remind me of Jordi Pujol when he was very honorable, when he insisted on the "national building and making country", because he always shocked me that if it is said machaconically that "som una nació seems quite logical that no national construction is necessary. At least Jordi Pujol did have a clear project. In addition to the « 3 percent, it had the project of uniforming Catalonia cultural, linguistic, ideological and intellectually in order to be able to control the best, and it has to be recognized that the results have been impressive. You, in fact, are neither transgressors nor revolutionaries. They're just the applied pupils of pujolist. That's why they're trying to get us into the national building even in the soup. But this isn't the only thing they mess with because it sounds good to them. This motion is a catalogue of several of his fetishes: the social, solidarity and cooperative economy; medical assessments; public procurement; the municipalization of services... which, I see, are not topics with which we are necessarily against. In fact, we will vote in favour of some of the points. But in general they propose simply irrelevant measures that do not go to the root of the problem and that are mere occurrences to paste their fetish themes. For example, they ask, in three months, for a study on productive chains inserted in the social, solidarity and cooperative economy in Catalonia, Valencia and the Islands, which I suppose refer to the Balearic Islands and not to the Medas Islands, because, of course, as you do not specify... Have you asked the Valencians what you think? No, right? There was no such appropriation from Jaume I the Conqueror. Do you know what it's called, this? Imperialism. You're imperialists. And in three months, eye. What is the purpose of the study? By putting something into the motion, I imagine, and because it sounds alternative and cool, they also ask for an inventory of the last twenty years of all industrial work centers and machinery in Catalonia, Valencia and Balearic Islands. But why do they want it? Because just imagine me the poor official of the Generalitat biting door-to-door trying to inventory the machines of, for example, a shoe factory in Elda, province of Alicante, it's not that I laugh, it's that it seems to me a lack of respect to the Generalitat and its workers, the officials. And it is not because the right to work is an insignificant issue. Because they look at whether they had themes to touch on: conciliation, the dual labour market, aberrant unemployment rates, temporality, long-term unemployment, poor workers, the wage gap, special employment centres for people with disabilities, active employment policies... And then they vote against a Citizens' initiative for a campaign in labour inspection to combat labour discrimination after pregnancy, which speaks a lot about patriarchy, but at the time of truth this is what there is. But what can you expect when in the interpellation you say things like "occupationality is the star concept of neoliberal doctrine, which places the responsibility for unemployment and precariousness in the person, in the sense that he has not developed the skills and skills necessary to be an attractive workforce?" And this after claiming the Law of labor relations as the most guaranteed framework in workers' rights, a law, let us not forget, of the government of Arias Navarro, yes, to which they will remember crying the death of the dictator, whose minister of labor was an old shirt of the Falange. What the members of the CUP call ‘the product of a cycle of mobilizations' is actually the product of a government without legitimacy, weak and frank. Yeah, that's right, let's be clear. What you consider to be a guarantor is a paternalistic framework that generates aberrant rates of unemployment and temporaryity, in which the worker who is lucky enough to be fixed is pushed to cling to that job, even if it is a sad and frustrating job that bitters him for life. Empowering the worker is that a company wants its workers not to leave, and this is done with well-trained workers who generate added value and without a huge reserve army in unemployment. And, of course, this has to be accompanied by redistributive policies that ensure that no one stays in the gutter, such as the guaranteed wage supplement. In short, in Citizens we do have a clear, defined, thought-out, progressive model, in line with the models that have been shown to work, and that is where advanced countries are heading. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.192.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.193.0	Thank you, President. Counselress, MPs, the UPC presents its motion on capitalism, work and life – well, what's left of it – which rather seems to be the title of a work of romantic literature set in the Bolshevik revolution of 1917. Let's see if he gets a little more, huh? Instead of worrying about our agendas, work in Parliament, because demagogy leads nowhere. Look, this is a provincial neo-imperialist proposal, because it gravitates on a virtual non-existent and totalitarian reality that you call « Catalan Countries. Look, leave the Valencians and the people of Baleares alone, because you don't represent them. The text submitted to debate by the CUP also reminds me of the work The Chronicles of Narnia, a story of adventures in a land of fantasy and magic. But that's his thing: juvenile literature, when not childish. The struggle between good and evil. You good guys, of course. All very mythological; finally, even idyllic. Well, look, I'm going to say no. You symbolize evil. And as Albert Camus thought, evil catches the unsuspecting people. And it's that you have to have a hard face, to defend the public thoroughly, the communist collectivization, the expropriation, as you do, for then, and listen to me carefully, to have private medical insurance and private pension plans, which according to the Center of Studies of Opinion are in greater number than those of the militants of the People's Party. [[Some applause.]] Yes, Mrs. Gabriel, and I'm going to look you in the eye... Yes, look at her – look at her. Look, that's what I call hypocrisy in Spanish. And the bad news is that they then have the nerve to call themselves anti-capitalists, who are opposed to private property and who are in favour of occupation. But, that's right, from the others, huh? Because yours..., your abundant properties, if there's any deputy who has abundant properties in this chamber, those don't take care of, huh? Those aren't taken care of. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.194.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.195.0	And it's just that your social model is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.196.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.197.0	... retrograde and reactionary, when not uncivilized. What do you want? Go back to the tribe and promote violent behavior. In any case, I return to the motion, if we talk about public procurement, people should know that the public offer of employment for the year 2017 of the Government of Spain establishes a replacement rate of more than 100_per_cent of pensions in education, health and justice. This offer also drastically reduces the number of temporary public workers. From the left, we are criticized for the fact that we do not have the legitimacy to defend the well-being of the people. Well, look: when the economic situation permits, we reverse it and guarantee progress, because we do think about the well-being of the people. And, of course, the left, I no longer say the radical, after the blows and holes that leave its management, both here in Catalonia and in the rest of Spain, only leads us to bankruptcy. Look, that's the big difference between you and us. That and its alleged moral superiority, which we'll talk about another day, because it's for a long time. They are committed to denouncing labour reform, but even France copies it. Our policies create jobs. They don't destroy it like socialist politics. Even – even – quality employment. And yet yours destroys everything. You're like Attila. Where you pass nothing grows again under your feet. So experiments, with soda. Look, there's also a question in the motion... because the motion, in short, leaves much to be desired. The authorship of the motion, I insist, has come little less than attributed to other groups. It's hard work, really, huh? It's surprising that when you talk about social concertation, you defend lobbyists, lobbyists. I mean, you want a third union, for what? To press? To coerce? Earn the will of the workers, earn their representation. Do not work as a lobbying group, because, really, you, who so much now love the new parliamentary practice of transparency..., precisely being a lobbying group is clearly prohibited, and therefore you should not promote such actions. Nothing more. Thank you so much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.198.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehi. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.199.0	Well, president, since everyone's out of date today, and that's a ball of sticks, he's gonna let me maybe triage a little more. Before we begin, I see that you are very grateful for what we are talking about capitalism, work and life. It's got to be that you don't really talk about it, that I already understand, huh? , that every one here has the ideological mark and the theoretical mark that it has, and, therefore, well... we do. We talk about capitalism, we talk about capitalism as a model that destroys life, and it doesn't thank us or seem poetic to us. But, well, here you go with your references and whatever you're reading, let's just say. Clearly, as they've said so many things, I'll go theme by theme, more than I left. Catalonia Yes, I can say: "Clearly, there is very little relationship between the willingness of the inquiry, very powerful, and the one we find in the youth. You're right. Now, it's not about the Catalan countries, that for us it's a political subject that we build every day, and not in an imperialist way – as I don't know who was here, but, well, that's not what I'm talking about anymore because it's another issue – just because of the margin we have here to legislate on the subject of work, because of the margin there is in a model of social concertation where the trade unions, the trade unions that you know well enough, have agreed and rehearsed to maintain the status quo. That's why the difference between questioning and motion, between the margin we have and what we can do, is so big. And many times he went for representation, but many more, and most, or very many other times, went for organic law, went for order. We also want to talk about it. And here we also wanted to answer the PSC, that... of course, to ridicule a political subject that for us is a reality that, as I said, we build daily, that it is the Catalan Countries, it is a little elegant way to discuss politically. And it's that I don't know what happens to certain lefts, and here I'm also heading to Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, that they challenge under the 78's rule, but never the territorial quartering and the rules of this one's autonomy. To Citizens and the People's Party, of course, I don't know what to say. I think this whole thing's been bothering them enough. Clearly, the Deputy of Ciutadans has accused us of pujolists, reformists, and very little in depth, said that medical assessments are a "fetish and that the Sub-Directorate General of Medical Assessments..., I imagine also. And he said they have a good model. I imagine you must be that of displacement, precarization, that of the autonomes... that you do not distinguish between Amancio Ortega and the Lord Lampist, etc. And to the lord of the PP, to see, among which he has said that you « guarantee progress...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.200.0	Mrs Vehi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.201.0	...with labor reform – yes, I'm finished – and who has said a whole series of words, I don't know what to say to him. I will only ask you one question: how many directors did the Popular Party take to Salt when you presented yourself on the list? Cap, right? We rule over it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.202.0	Mrs Vehi...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.203.0	We have nothing more to say.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.204.0	...has run out of time. [[Some applause.]] Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. I have to tell you that there must be a mistake or must be a difference between what you have and what I have, because I've been asked to vote separately for a few points that I don't have in my seat, huh? Anyway, let's do it again and see who they are and who they are... Yes, Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.205.0	By separate vote, too. I think it will be a complicated vote. For a band, we ask point 1.1, 2.3 letter to, 2.3 letter b, 2.3 letter d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.206.0	Will you sign it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.207.0	From.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.208.0	Well?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.209.0	From, from, "says.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.210.0	2.3 letter d. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.211.0	Third. This could all go in a block. I, for another band...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.212.0	Who told me? Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.213.0	Third.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.214.0	Third. 3rd, to my young lady, I don't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.215.0	Don't you have the third one? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, he says: "Guarantee to the statutory deployment of the law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.216.0	It's 3.3. You mean 3.3?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.217.0	3.3a, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.218.0	Oh, okay. So, 3.3.a, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.219.0	Okay. And on the other hand, 1.2, 1.3, 2.4 letter b, and point 4. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.220.0	Okay. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.221.0	To humbly suggest to the presidency the separate vote of all points and all letters or else, we will never finish, I have the intuition. Why do I think they're radically different from each other, huh? I, in the end... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.222.0	Mr Fernández, that is twenty-four votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.223.0	Looks like...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.224.0	Say it, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.225.0	...that we would cheat more by asking for separate votes than the twenty-i-four votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.226.0	All right, then. We'll do it like this. [[Pause.]] We'll do it like this, huh? We'll vote all the points separately. So, let's start by voting on the point... Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.227.0	Ask for the vote separately from the separate points, or just... [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Or, point 2.3.d te d.1 and d.2, but I would also like to vote on title d, apart from d.1 and d.2. [[Someone says: "Separatist.. The orator laughs. Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.228.0	From point 2.3 we have 2.3.a, 2.3.b, 2.3.c, 2.3.d, 2.3.d.1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.229.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.230.0	2.3.d.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.231.0	And the title, which is the d, of d.1 and d.2, the d, which is also considered a point apart, which is also voted separately. Yeah? Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.232.0	It means d. "The Parliament urges the Government of the Generality... This point? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.233.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.234.0	...we thought we'd do it, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.235.0	All right, all right. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-05-18-3502.236.0	So, yes, yes, we will all vote separately, because surely, as Mr Fernández said, it will be easier. So, let's start by voting point 1.1. The vote begins. Point 1.1 was approved by 71 votes to 34, with 24 abstentions. We will then vote on point 1.2. The vote begins. Point 1.2 was approved by 71 votes to 58, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.3. The vote begins. The 1.3_point was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 119 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.1.a. The vote begins. Point 2.1.a_has been approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.1.b. The vote begins. Point 2.1.b_has been approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will now vote on point 2.1.c. The vote begins. Point 2.1.c_was approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.1.d. The vote begins. Point 2.1.d_has been approved by 129 votes to none, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 2.2. The vote begins. Point 2.2 was approved by 128 votes to none, with no abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.3.a. The vote begins. Point 2.3.a_has been rejected by 12 votes in favour, 93 against and 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2.3.b. The vote begins. Point 2.3.b_has been rejected by 10 votes to 95, with 24 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2.3.c. The vote begins. Point 2.3.c_has been approved by 103 votes to 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2.3.d. The vote begins. Point 2.3.d_has been approved by 95 votes to 9, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.3.d.1. The vote begins. Point 2.3.d.1_is approved by 119 votes to 9, with no abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.3.d.2. The vote begins. Point 2.3.d.2_has been rejected by 27 votes to 61, with 40 abstentions. We will then vote on point 2.4.a. The vote begins– 2.4.a. Point 2.4.a_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote on 2.4.b. The vote begins. Point 2.4.b_has been rejected by 19 votes to 85, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on point 3.1. The vote begins. Point 3.1_has been rejected by 19 votes to 95, with 15 abstentions. We will continue to vote on point 3.2. The vote begins. Point 3.2 was rejected by 59 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Now we'll vote on point 3.3, and then we'll vote on 3.3. Okay? [[Pause.]] For the moment, we are voting on point 3.3. The vote begins. The 3.3_point was approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. And now we're voting point 3.3. The vote begins. Point 3.3.a_is approved by 129 votes in favour, against and abstentions. We will then vote on point 4.1. The vote begins. The 4.1_point was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. And then we'll vote on the last point, which is 4.2. The vote begins. Point 4.2 was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 118 against and no abstentions. We're done with the vote. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
