ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you and to all of you. The list of questions to answer orally in the Ple... [[Changes to the agenda]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.2.0	Yes, Madam President, I would like to ask you, pursuant to Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, to request an alteration of the agenda to include a new item for debate and voting. I propose it, concretely, to debate and vote on the Law of the referendum of self-determination of Catalonia. President, this House must be well aware of the proposal we are asking for to be included in the debate. This isn't a question of another law, it's not a question of any law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.3.0	Mrs. Rovira...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.4.0	...this is the debate about Catalonia's self-determination referendum and I'd ask you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.5.0	Mrs. Rovira...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.6.0	...that you leave me three minutes to explain it to the chamber.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.7.0	Mrs. Rovira, I'll give you three minutes. We'll schedule the time and keep in mind that the same time you use it will keep all your porters also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.8.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.9.0	...to fix your position, okay? The vice president will control the time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.10.0	President..., okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.11.0	Forward, Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.12.0	In our view, Catalonia has the right to decide and has the right to self-determination; a right that is inherent in us, that you do not prescribe, that no one can revoke us and that we ourselves cannot renounce. A right that belongs to Catalonia as it was born, a right to which Catalonia has never renounced, but to the contrary; a right contemplated in the preamble of the 1979 Statute; a right that Catalonia has reaffirmed in multiple resolutions approved in this Parliament, resolutions that today are well in force. The first resolutions, of the eighty years, just after the constitutional pact, which reaffirm that the signature of the constitutional pact has never meant a waiver of this right. In this awareness that we are asking the Chamber, that this is the debate that we are proposing, the debate on the exercise of the right to self-determination in Catalonia, we also want to recall that, in accordance with the threats that some Members of this House have made, the Spanish State is obliged to respect and promote internationally the exercise of the right to self-determination, in accordance with the provisions of the Charter of United Nations and why it was committed, also explicitly, with the signature of the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, assuming – assuming – its Article 1.3, an article that makes it clear that this right does not only affect the context of the process of dislocation, but also that it is committed to such a purpose. A right that can be exercised here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, as an institution representing the sovereignty of the people of Catalonia; a right that can be exercised in the Parliament of Catalonia also, as established in Article 10.2, and Article 96 of the Spanish Constitution, according to which the Spanish State is obliged to interpret the Spanish Constitution according to international treaties. And it is for this reason that we would not understand any interference on the part of the Spanish Government in this debate we are proposing today. Therefore, President, I ask you to put this proposal to the vote to incorporate the debate and vote on the self-determination reference into the order of the day of this plenary, just before the control session, and to ensure all its substance until the end. Finally, Madam President, I would also like to inform the House and the rest of the parliamentary groups that Juntes per el Sí has an agreement with the Parliamentary Group of the CUP to move directly to a very concrete process of this legislative procedure, which is the concrete process of the debate and final vote of the law. And we would also like to see a second vote, as provided for in Rule 81.3, to move on to this concrete process of the legislative process. Two years ago, we Members had a democratic mandate to make it possible to exercise the right to self-determination in Catalonia; it was a year ago that was announced in this very Parliament that this exercise would mediate the best instrument, a reference, and it was two months ago that we made public the proposal of the law of the reference. This law, therefore, is known and has been published. This law has not been able to follow the orderly procedure that we have been trying to do, two years ago the Spanish Government has been insistently pursuing the exercise of the right to self-determination, instead of respecting its exercise: objections to Parliament's accords, prosecution's quarrels, preventive and constant warnings from the Constitutional Court... For this reason, we use this regulatory procedure, that of Rule 81.3, which is provided for in this Regulation and which allows us to incorporate the final debate and vote in this Plenary. We, the president, use this way in the Rules of Procedure for this reason, but we seem to respect the remaining participation of parliamentary groups in this debate and vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] For this very reason... – and if I may, let me explain it – we ask that a two-hour period be opened for all parliamentary groups... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We ask that a two-hour term be opened so that all parliamentary groups can make the points that they consider appropriate to go directly to the debate and the final vote; since all the other lives of this Parliament have been blocked, we are obliged to ask for the waiver of the due process to bring us to this debate and the final vote. In particular, we ask that the debate on the totality of the law and the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, as provided for in the same Rules of Procedure of Parliament, be removed. [[Widow's remorse.]] We understand that with this exemption legality control is not affected, because it can always be done after the vote by ordinary courts, as you yourself know perfectly well, because you have exercised this legality control repeatedly in ordinary courts, unfortunately, despite what the Catalan Parliament approves and always putting into tension the democratic principle and legitimacy of this Parliament. And why if we had reached the point of having a pre-emptive opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, if we had the tingues, if we could have used the ordinary processing and today we had this opinion, we could have been ahead of an identical vote, as it is, because even if the girl observations in the opinion are binding and, therefore, we might not have incorporated them into the final text that we are voting on. Moreover, we defend that the debate that is proposed, which is about the right to self-determination, is an exercise that, in the band of being an exercise of internal law, is also an exercise of international law to be regulated by international treaties. And we understand that with the effects of the control of legality we also have in our grasp, all the groups and all the people that so desire, to go to international lives to carry out this control of legality. We understand, finally – and I finish – that the plenary will rise and can take this decision by an absolute majority, as the Rules state in Article 81.3, without violating the guarantees of the rest of the groups. Therefore, we would ask that a second vote be made: the first vote, to alter and incorporate the item on the agenda of the debate and final vote of the Law of Referendum and Self-Determination, and, the second vote, we would ask that it be made in order to pass concretely to this point of the vote and final debate of the law, with the period that we ask for two hours of statements, so that all papers can make the corresponding statements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.13.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira. He's been talking for five minutes, so all groups have five minutes. Are there any other groups that you also agree with this petition? [[Pause.]] Yes, Mrs. Gabriel. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.14.0	Thank you, President. The rest of the groups will certainly have the opportunity to speak when the president holds the right of the word. In the first place, very good day to all that you are here and to all that are following this Ple also for other means. In the name of the CUP - Constituent Creed, we also ask to introduce to the order of the day the point of debate and approval of the Proposition of Self-Determination Reference Law, a proposition of law that we have promoted and subscribed to. We have done so on the basis of Rule 81.3 of the Rules, which allows us to do so to two parliamentary groups, and at the same time, on the basis of the same Article, we would ask that 'the parliamentary procedures provided for in ordinary circumstances may be exempted, in the same sense that the Joint spokesman for the Yes has expressed. We ask for it because we believe that we are a political subject will rise and because we want to exercise our political condition. We want to approve this law and, in fact, we want you to allow the government to summon the self-determination referendum and finally be the people who can vote on October 1, "yes or no to independence from this part of the Catalan countries." We have found no other way to make this country's majority will work. We did not find any intention of dialogue in the Spanish State, on the contrary, we found a strongly delegitimized state that only acts on the basis of threats and prohibitions. We have found a state, a judiciary and a parliamentary majority in Congress who believe that beyond the indissoluble unity of the Spanish State there is no life and therefore no rights. We don't want to believe that debates need to be, that they get bigger and that they die in the 1978 Constitution. Actually, we don't want you to die of intelligence. Political sovereignty must be able to exercise if this is the will of the majority. There is a country that has shown so much that it is willing to be able to decide on independence and, in fact, on many other questions that affect the material conditions of our lives. For us, the debate and approval of this law is not a debate on rules, on statutes of autonomy, on councils of statutory guarantees, or on incidents of execution of sentences of the Constitutional Court. The debate and approval of this law has now become a question not only of answering the demophobia of the Spanish State, but also – and above all – an act of collective dignity.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. As there are two parliamentary groups calling for the amendment of the agenda, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, at point 81.3, we shall proceed to the vote. [[Widow's remorse.]] We'll take two votes. First, we'll vote on the alteration of the agenda. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] and then we'll take the vote on the way out. [[the remorse of the voice persists.]] Before we proceed to the vote, as we have said – as we have said – we will give each spokesman five minutes so that they can fix their position. And, therefore, you, Mr. Fernández, were the first to ask for the word, so you will have five minutes and ask him to ask us for all the requests and considerations in these five minutes, because he will do a single word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.16.0	It's a point of order. It's not... it's not the intervention right now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.17.0	No, yes, he's in surgery now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.18.0	No, no, no..., we cannot start this debate until the Bureau examines the request for reconsideration that has been made. Until then, this debate cannot be held. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.19.0	We'll do..., we'll do the reconsideration petition, we'll do it, but now we're not starting any debate, we're changing the order of the day. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] the debate is then; therefore, we are now speaking solely and exclusively of the alteration of the agenda. And I give them five minutes because you talk, every doorman, about altering the order of the day. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, the gift five minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.20.0	I refer to Rule 88.1, which is a call for compliance with the Rules, Madam President. We cannot debate the alteration of the order of the day to include the debate on a bill that has been admitted to court a few minutes ago, which has been published in the Official Butllet of Parliament a few minutes ago and which, at these times, does not meet the minimum requirements so that it can be debated in this House. And in this sense I will quote, for example, Rule 82 of the Rules, which says that documentation, to be discussed in the Chamber organs, in the plenary, must be made available to Members, such as at least forty-eight hours before, leads to an explicit agreement of the Bureau, which we do not know. Therefore, at this time, we cannot subdue to debate a law that has not been in the possession of the Members of Parliament for the time that, on a regular basis, corresponds to us. We sincerely appreciate Mrs Rovira's concern about the rights of Members of the Opposition, but we believe and are convinced that the best guarantee of respecting the rights of Members of the Opposition is the strict compliment of the Rules of this Parliament. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.21.0	The representative of the People's Party has spent five minutes. Yes, we'll reconsider... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I'm sorry, it's true for the two days, but here we are... first we'll vote for the alteration and then we'll vote for the exemption from the paperwork. And before we vote, as you said, we'll do the reconsideration. But now... before we vote we'll do the reconsideration, but now we'll ask the spokesman who is in the position to respect the alteration of the order of the day and after the reconsideration we'll vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.22.0	Madam President, as spokesman for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, I regret to have to address you again as if you were the President of the Government or the President of the ANC, I regret that you are again violating the rights of all Members. We find it scandalous that the change of the agenda is put to the vote when a review is pending which the parliamentary groups have sent to the Bureau, and the Bureau refuses to resolve that. The first thing to do, as a matter of order, as has already been pointed out here, the first thing to do is..., if that admission to procedure, whose reconsideration has been requested, must be reconsidered or not, and then come to plenary and then it will be evaluated if the agenda is altered. Why should this be done? Well, look, Madam President, because the review that has been requested is basically based on a parliamentary initiative that directly violates what the Constitutional Court requires about the possibility of holding a referendum in Catalonia. What you are trying to do is to overthrow the rights not only of parliamentary groups, but of all Catalans who have voted in Catalonia for various political parties with various sensitivities. And what you are doing is supplanting the will of all Catalans for that of one part of them, for one group, parliamentary groups that have less votes than the rest of the opposition, which refuses to carry out this road map on which you have embarked and which, by the way, was not included in the electoral programme. And, therefore, this question should not be able to put to the vote, the alteration of the agenda, to put on the agenda something that we have not even arranged with the time of forty-eight hours in advance, the groups of the chamber, as the Rules of Procedure command. In addition, it is intended to alter, postpone all procedures, alter the procedures that we Members have the right to carry out in any legislative initiative. And it is being claimed that we cannot even go to the Council for Statutory Guarantees on a request for an opinion. And the whole legislative procedure is being altered to avoid a real debate. We are not told that with two_hours..., that with two_hours is enough to debate about the repeal of the pact of l'Statut de Catalunya, altering all the regulations, violating the Statute, violating the Constitution. If you do not have a majority to make an electoral law, do you intend to make an electoral union – do you intend to make an electoral union – without having enough votes through this referendum law that we are trying to introduce on the agenda? It is clear, therefore, that both for reasons of form..., because the regulatory procedures for bringing this here have not been followed, because it is intended to abolish the procedures that all parties have, all parliamentary groups, in the drafting of the laws and, finally, because, in substance, what is intended to be included in the agenda is something that this Parliament cannot vote on, because this Parliament can debate everything but within the laws and with respect for democracy..., with respect for democracy, gentlemen, not with respect to what this Parliament is doing as the administration of the Puigdemont Government. If the Puigdemont Government decides that it wants to hold a referendum on 1 October, does this Parliament have to do so at the expense of suppressing the rights of Members representing all Catalans? Do we have to run today to approve something without even being seen by the Council of State Guarantees, without following the legislative procedures, without obeying the controls that all Western democracies have? Do we have to do that, that, today to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.23.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.24.0	...Mr. Puigdemont...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.25.0	...there's 30 seconds left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.26.0	...so that Mr Puigdemont can keep his word of trying to do something he knows he will not be able to do because the rule of law defends itself without the need for anyone to push him? The rule of law and democracy have sufficient mechanisms to ensure that what is intended to be done here today is invalidated. And you know it. And, therefore, everything we are doing here today with this violation of regulations is turning this chamber not into the Parliament of Catalonia, but into the National Theatre of Catalonia. You're depreciating, scorning and insulting this legislative chamber, because you've turned it into a mere theater from the moment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.27.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.28.0	...they don't respect each other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.29.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.30.0	...the rights of Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Carrizosa. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] He's run out of time. [[Some applause.]] Mr. Pedret. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He wants to talk from the Faristol. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.32.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, people who listen to us through all the media that make available to this Parliament... First of all, I would like to say to you, Madam President, that it is strange that this debate should be held on the question raised by the spokespersons – the spokespersons, in this case, of Juntes per el Sí and the CUP – when we could be having a debate on something that the Bureau then reconsidered. That is to say, if it is not that you are preconfiguring who is the decision of the Bureau respecting the request for reconsideration that, for example, our group has raised, we could be having a debate on a proposal of law that, in fact, is not allowed to proceed, because the reconsideration could produce this result. But in any case, it respects the questions of form and substance... because some spokesman of this Parliament has done, in part of his intervention, let us say, with the acidity and the verb crushed that characterizes it, and also in part of the sorcery that also used to characterize some of his interventions, a lesser respect for the questions of form: formalisms, technicalities, minuteness. But it happens that, in democracy, the shape is enough to see with the background – the shape is enough to see with the background. And it happens that a law, to be legal, is not enough that it was encapsulated with the word "law when it is presented to the Register of Parliament". It has to be dictated by an organ that is empowered and has the powers to do so, and it has to follow the procedures, which means the guarantees of the rights, which are established to the laws, to the Statute, to the Constitution. Because, if not, it is a purely arbitrary act, a dictatorship of a majority of Parliamentarians who, in this case, are missing, moreover, not only from the legitimacy of origin, because it is not at all an electoral majority, it is not a sociological majority either, it is not a majority of Parliamentarians that in their programmes would have carried this point as an essential point in this legislature, but, above all – and what is more important and what is now being seen – it is lacking in exercise legitimacy. Because if, in order to achieve the political objectives that are laid down, which may be legitimate, they decide to blow up all democratic procedures and guarantees, the rights of parliamentary minorities, and more important than the rights of Members of Parliament because it is the fact that they are representatives of the citizens of this country, as they are, indeed, as they are, but we are also. [[Greetings.]] And the rights of the citizens and the citizens we represent cannot be raised from the side of the way. Mirin, respect article 81.3 we have the luck that, both the servants of the chamber, the secretary general, the major reader in his legal and technical notes on the reform of the Catalonian Regulation, as the Council of Guarantees Statutes in its opinion number 7 of this same year, have already been done..., they have already been cured in salvation and have already made a pronouncement respecting the parliamentary procedures that were absolutely essential to respect the right of political participation through representatives. And today it was announced, on the part of a spokesman of the majority group, that at least one of these, if not two, at least one of these, thought they were trying to obviate it or omit it, that it is the possibility for parliamentary groups to submit a request for an opinion to the Council of State Guarantees respecting whether or not this proposal of the law conforms to the State and the Constitution. But it is more, too, that I want to make it clear that our parliamentary group has addressed itself on various occasions, through the services of our group, to request a legal report on the adjustment to the law, to the Statute and to the Constitution of this proposal. He refused, and we thought it was a transcendent question and that it would be useful to know the opinion of the chamber servants. Although he's denied charge, we know that there is a report from the secretary general and the chamber's major readership. And, therefore, we, in compliance with Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, ask that you read this document that we believe can illustrate the assumption that we are debating. We therefore ask the Bureau to read this document that we are aware of. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.33.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Mr. Coscubila, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.34.0	Good morning. Thank you very much. The ones we have always defended and we will continue to defend the reference we are most interested in is famous with full democratic guarantees. And what most people want to do today is exactly the opposite: blow up all the democratic guarantees from the first minute. We are not before a mere alteration of the order of the day, and you know it. What we are seeing today is the suspension of the rights of the guarantees of parliamentarians, and therefore of the citizenship to which we represent, provided for in the Rules, in the Law of the Council of State Guarantees and in the same Statute of autonomy. The performance of the majority of Parliament today, instead of helping to legitimize this reference, is doing a lot of damage to its legitimacy. We are ahead of an anti-democratic action that, at least in the Catalonian Parliament, has no precedents, which is presented as a lesser evil, which is presented as an intent of a new cunning to mock the Spanish government. Together for the Yes and the CUP know that responding to the Spanish government's bunkerization by the way of cunning is a self-deception that lasts hours and days, even so many times the CUP's companies have said. In order to respond to the Spanish Government's bailout, it would be perfectly legitimate to understand that the political forces which it considers to be calling for civic insubmission with all the consequences that this entails. But it's deceiving the citizenry to say that with these cunnings the Spanish government is mocking. The only effect that will have, if the majority of Parliament is imposed today, will be that the democratic rights of the Members – and therefore of the citizenry to which we represent – will be trampled down on the Parliament of Catalonia to unthinkable proportions and delegitimate the referendum. The Rules, even in their most creative interpretations, allow to alter the order of the day in certain circumstances. But the Rules don't allow everything, can't, can't allow canceling, suspending for a few days, as you claim, the rights of Members and Members. The Regulation does not authorise the suspension of Catalan legality: Law of the Council of State Guarantees, the same Statute of autonomy and the rights of Members. The Council of State Guarantees has stated with its opinion on the reform of the Rules that laws of this transcendence, such as that of the reference, require to be approved with an ordinary procedure, of debate, which guarantees right to papers, parliamentary debates. He said so clearly. And the majority's answer today is: "How much I do not like the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, I keep my mouth shut at the Council of State Guarantees, as I have before I keep my mouth shut at the electorate, as I now want to keep my mouth shut at all Members who do not agree with this majority of Parliament. This, I'm sorry, you can invent what's going on, you can invent the procedures you want, but what you've invented today is the buccal procedure: "I don't like it, I shoot, and cancel it. Congressman I don't like, cancel his rights. Board of State Guarantees, which I know what he said to me and I don't like it, I shut his mouth and prevent them from talking. They are placing Catalan institutions in an exceptional state, because what is being raised today is not an insubmission before the Spanish State. What you're raising today is a disobedience to all Catalan law. And the precedent they believe is grave in democratic terms. The rights of citizens, the rights of parliamentarians cannot be derogated from for the most part. This is the essence of democracy. In a democracy the fact of having the majority does not authorize the suspension of minority rights. This is not democracy, this has another name! [[Some applause.]] Are they aware – are they aware – of the gravity of what they are perpetrating today only in order to maintain a report from here to October 1st? From then on, you are aware that, from then on, everyone who has the majority in this Parliament or in the future Parliament of transition to the Catalan Republic, and you consider it opportune to its ends, can skip the laws, the Catalans as well, and leave the right of the rest of the groups, the right of the deputies and the citizens to stand still? Is this the country they're proposing to build? Please don't; you can't be wrong like that. To justify a report that makes you endure until '1 October cannot be at the cost of undermining Catalan democracy and Parliament at these levels. Because you will approve the reference, I don't know what will happen on October 1st, but what will remain is an absolutely broken democracy: not just the society we have in Catalonia, but the Catalan democracy. You can't do this. And that the justification cannot be, from the beginning, the bunkerization of the Spanish State. Democracy is defense with more democracy, not less. But it's that, in addition, you're weakening the democratic legitimacy of the referendum. If there is no one outside Catalonia now, outside – outside, at the international level – that collects a reference made without guarantees, after what will happen today, no one outside Catalonia, no court, no international body can endorse a reference with character linked to these conditions. That you didn't see it? That you don't see that you're carrying the reference formula for many years if you want to continue working on this issue? Please, and I really want the reference...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.35.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.36.0	...not fire this cacicada today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.37.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.38.0	I just ended up with one thing, Madam President. In relation to you: you have requested an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees, the debate and vote of the law must wait to know this opinion. And as this – this – has a great deal of transcendence, Madam President, I ask you, before you vote on this, to call the Bureau, and, please, to ask the legal services for a report on the legality of the procedure being put forward. The deputies have a right to know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.40.0	The deputies have a right to know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.41.0	Mr. Coscubila... thank you, Mr. Coscubila. [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]] Mr. Coscubiela, the cry to order. [[The speaker keeps talking without using the microphone.]] There's no use in the word. He's run out of time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Coscubala, you've run out of time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Greetings.]] Before we proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda and the exemption from parliamentary procedure...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.42.0	I'm asking for the word, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.43.0	I'll call you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.44.0	... as the Vice-President of the Bureau of Parliament and Vice-President, also, according to Parliament, ask him for a very important point of order. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.45.0	Mr. Vice President, we're meeting in full. [[The applause continues.]] You cannot act as a member of the Bureau here, you can only act as a member of the Bureau when we are meeting at the table. The Pleth is going to rise and here you are not like the table. So far, I can feel it. You have already spoken before the table, you have spoken many times and now your group has already spoken. I therefore call from here the Board of Spokesmen and the Bureau to resolve the review.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.46.0	Ask her again for the word, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.47.0	I call on the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to resolve the review.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.48.0	We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda, in accordance with Rule 81.3, as two parliamentary groups have requested. First, we will vote on the amendment of the agenda and second, we will vote on the exemption from parliamentary procedures. I inform you that, in accordance with the considerations made by the Secretary General to the Bureau today, I must warn you that this point may be affected by the interlocutors of the Constitutional Court. Despite all this, do the two parliamentary groups call for a change in the agenda? [[Pause.]] So, let's call it a vote to vote first on the alteration and then... Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.49.0	To inform the president that a few minutes ago my parliamentary group has submitted the request for reconsideration by adding the new arguments that we were aware of when going to the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.50.0	All right, all right, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.51.0	And that so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.52.0	I immediately convene the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.53.0	It's part of the session. We shall proceed, as we have said before, to the vote on the amendment of the agenda and, after that, to the exemption of parliamentary procedures. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Say'm.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.54.0	We have requested the nullity of the publication of the Referendum Act in the official newsletter. And in this regard, I would like to ask you, Madam President, in view of the Secretary-General's refusal to participate in this publication, could you tell us which public fedatary you have supported this publication? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.55.0	The majority – four members of Junts per el Si – of the Bureau of Parliament, because Article 112 says that the Bureau agreements are published, and it is not said who, neither how nor when, is said only to be published. So, let's proceed... And it was discussed at the Bureau, Mr Fernández – it was discussed at the Bureau, Mr Fernández. We shall proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda. We've already done three months of review. [[Ferran Pedret and Santos ask to speak.]] Mr. Pedret.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.56.0	President, a call for compliance with the Rules, as provided for in Rule 88 of the Rules of Procedure, to remind you that, in my speech to the Faristol, I had referred to Rule 86 of the Rules, in which the group is allowed to ask for the reading of documents which are still relevant to the issue that is being clarified, and we are connoisseurs– and has not refused– that there is a legal note from the electorate and the secretary general that we would like to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.57.0	Mr. Pedret... Mr. Pedret, this note has already been distributed and is known; therefore, it is not worth reading. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, he left for Mesa. That's a power... [[remorse of the voice]] That's the president's authority. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It is a warning that will be attached to the record, it is not a note, it is a warning, that I have already made them adventurous, it is to say, I have already told them, and, unfortunately, the two spokespersons have reiterated that they want to alter the order of the day. Therefore, we vote without further delay. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.58.0	Yes, Madam President. In the same sense as the previous interventions, the publication that has been made, apparently and as recognized by the Board of Spokesmen, has been made by four members of the Bureau, which has been specified, of Junts pel Si, and has not been made by the Secretary-General of Parliament. Therefore, we understand that this publication does not have the necessary formality and that we cannot consider that publication valid, and that it is null and void. Besides...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.59.0	Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa, instead of the Rules you say that the publication has to be made by the secretary of the Parliament, instead you say it, instead. He said: "The Bureau decides and is public. And that's what happened. And, therefore, we are voting on the amendment to the agenda. We shall first vote on the amendment to the agenda. The vote begins. In favour...? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] In favour of altering the order of the day? The agenda was changed by 68 votes to four, with two abstentions. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]] Next... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I gave them the word, to everyone; we made the reconsideration, voted. We vote for the exemption from parliamentary procedures that he has requested. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, no, no, [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubila, you're the only one who hasn't asked for the word before; so there's a gift now and let's continue the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.60.0	Thank you, Madam President. See, the president knows, because I've said it twice at the Board of Spokespersons, that this House will be very difficult and we know it will be...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.61.0	Mr. Coscubiela, if it's not a matter of order, there's no intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.62.0	Yeah, yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.63.0	So, say it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.64.0	If you let me talk more than two seconds in a row, maybe I can explain, president.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.65.0	More than two seconds... you carry a lot more often.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.66.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.67.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.68.0	See, I'll start at the end. Rule 86 of the Rules of Procedure gives us the right to ask Members to read a document that they consider to be relevant to the decision that they are going to make. Our group believes that it is important that all Members of the Catalan Parliament know the warning note that the Secretary-General and the President-in-Office have sent, and that, even though it has been sent to the Bureau, it is not so. We ask you, please, to read it publicly. I remind you that an incident like this we had with the motion of the Constituent Procedure Commission and, in the end, after very, very, very embolistic, ended up reading. That's what I'm saying, President; those conflicts that we can get away with, please, with a little flexibility, we can get away with. By the time you want to get away... the note would be taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.69.0	Mr. Carrizosa, this is a note... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Coscubiela – that's the second time I've been through. Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.70.0	I don't know whether it's done expressly or not, but go ahead, I forgive you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.71.0	Mr. Coscubiela, this is a warning that was made at the table and that I transferred them here. And, therefore, the Bureau is familiar with it. This did not go to the plenary or to the deputies. And, therefore, without further delay, let us proceed to vote on the second part of the amendment to the agenda, which is the exemption from all parliamentary procedures. [[Widow's remorse.]] I can feel it. Vote. The vote begins. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Germà Gordó and Aubarell ask to speak.]] Mr. Gordó... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Gordó, you have the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.72.0	Only one question, Madam President; it is that I have not been able to vote. I would simply like to vote, the truth, quite simply; I would simply like to vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.73.0	One moment, sir... [[Long break.]] To see, as some Members have said that they cannot, that they have not been able to vote, we will repeat the vote, the two followed. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] No, Mr. Fernández, we're going to vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's go back to voting straight... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I didn't say that. No, no, I didn't say "vote explanation," no. I didn't say that, sir. I didn't say, sir. Mr. Fernández, I said: "One single – one single, one single –" explained, and put all the considerations there. No, no, Go vote. Let us repeat the vote – first we will vote on the amendment and then on the exemption from the motions – as many Members have not been able to vote. Therefore, we call for a vote and vote. [[Fernando de Páramo Gómez asks to speak.]] Mr De Paramo, I know it's hard, but we don't admit any more points of order, because we're extending the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I don't feel it, Mr De Paramo, and, besides, you don't have the use of the word because we're going to vote. Okay? [[Widow's remorse.]] Go vote. We are voting on the amendment to the agenda, because we have been asked by some Members, who have not been able to vote on it, and therefore we are repeating the vote. We're voting on the alteration of the order of the day. The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 72 votes to 60, with 3 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the exemption from parliamentary procedures. The vote begins. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] I remind them that if they don't vote, they won't have time to vote. I can feel it. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We're holding the vote. I'm sorry, the paperwork... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's see, for a moment, let's see... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes; according to 81.3, that the alteration of the order of the day has been demanded, you have been able to..., the qualification and admission has been made to the draft, the publication of the initiative, the drafts, which will be made, because it has been requested that two hours is granted..., I mean, a deadline to submit drafts, and we will do the debate and vote. So, he's making sure everyone's... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The ways they've been... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That I repeated the doorman... [[Widow's remorse.]] The exemption from all proceedings was voted, except for the qualification and admission to the proceedings – which has already been done –, the publication of the initiative, the proceedings – which will be carried out – and the debate and the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] These are the right... [[Widow's remorse.]] The Guarantee Board, too, because it asked for the... the doorman asked for it. It is to say that there are all the minor processes: qualification and admission to the process, publication of the initiative, submission of papers, debate and voting; the rest are the ones that make the exemption. And, please, don't ask for the word anymore so I won't give it to you. Go vote. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] The vote begins – if not, the vote will not be repeated. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] The exemption from parliamentary procedure was approved by 69 votes to three, with no abstentions. Go on... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Let's continue, therefore, to give a deadline to submit exams, which will end... [[Widow's remorse.]] We'll donate a... [[Widow's remorse.]] We'll give up to one hour to submit papers, up to two-quarters of three. And, therefore, we shall now continue with the order of the day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The memory that has already begun the process to submit reviews, yes. [[Widow's remorse.]] See, Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.74.0	Mrs Forcadell, I wanted to ask you for the word to explain my group's non-vote. [[Pause.]] To say it very clearly: we cannot participate in a vote which, in fact, is to certify the loss of the rights of Members and opposition groups. And announce that in defense of these rights our parliamentary group will immediately file an appeal against the Constitutional Court. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.75.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.76.0	Madam President, the rights of all Members of this Parliament and of the people we represent have been completely violated once again. Look, the Board of Statutory Guarantees itself, when it failed about the Rules of this Chamber, said that, in summary..., they cannot be ignored..., in application of Article 81.3 of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia, cannot be ignored the process of going to the Board of Statutory Guarantees. And this was said by the same Council of State Guarantees, which cannot, with Article 81.3, dispense with this procedure, which is not a regulatory procedure that Parliament can agree to skip, but is a law – a law – which I say, moreover, the articles that are in violation of the Law of the State Guarantees Council, which are..., Article 16.1b, Article 23.b, Article 25. And the effect of the presentation to the Council of statutory guarantees of opinion, which we have already presented here today by registration, and therefore the Bureau should meet to transfer this, the effect is to suspend the processing of the proposed law in question. And, therefore, this presentation that has been presented not only in Parliament, but before the Council of Statutory Guarantees itself, which tells us in its resolutions that Parliament cannot override this process, and in the law that protects the Council of Guarantees, you have to stop processing under Article 26.4, which says that the request for an opinion to the Council of Statutory Guarantees suspends the processing of the law. So I ask you to stop, please, acting as the management of the government of Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, and to respect the rights of Catalan Members and all Catalans. I ask you, Madam President, to speak with the ANC. [[remorse of the voice]] and hand in the Parliament of Mr Puigdemont. You are driving at your liking to the highest institution in Catalonia and you are setting aside most of your population. You are committing an abuse... – this whole half of the Chamber, which represents less votes than this other half, are committing an abuse against democracy and Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.77.0	Your parliamentary group has already spoken, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.78.0	The chairman of my parliamentary group made an explanation of vote, and I wanted to do before this strange vote, a cry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.79.0	This strange vote has already taken place.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.80.0	...to the observance of the Rules. Yes, yes, but he wanted to make a call to the observance of the Rules, of which article 88 of the Rules provides, and, in concrete terms, to demand the observance of article 81.3 of the Rules, which is bringing us to all this debate. Because, look, he's been commented on, but I want to underline some of the arguments. Article 81.3 of the Rules is not an article that allows you to set up a unique reading procedure to process law proposals. It is an article that allows, at the request of two parliamentary groups or of the Bureau presidency or of two or five parts of the Members, to introduce a point which is not foreseen in the agenda, and, in fact, the last indent of this Article 81.3 provides that certain parliamentary procedures may be exempted from the assumption that they must be supported by the plenary, but not all parliamentary procedures. In the first place, for which it has already been commented that it gave the opinion 7/2017 of the Council of State Guarantees, which says, it does not only respect the qualification and admission to court, and respects the publication and respect the transmission of documents, but, above all, also respects the question of being able to request the advice of the Council of State Guarantees that these are required to identify themselves with the essential core of the right to political participation through representation; and I would like to remind you that the Council of State Guarantees is a statutory body that has been elected for this Parliament, and I would like to remind you that the possibility of requesting the advice of the Council of State Guarantees is not merely a process in the parliamentary process, but also a procedure for the legal configuration of the State Guarantees. And, according to the term, it is not only because of this that the observance of Article 81.3 is required, but because, as I said, 81.3 does not allow us to interpret that this is a single reading process. 81.3 brings a debate to a totality, and after proceeding to this debate to a totality it should follow the ordinary processing of the law's proposals, therefore, open the time to submit papers to the joint, open the time to ask for appearances and why it is substantial, open the question, that the petition makes its report, that the relevant committee makes its opinion, and then it is when we should be able to go to the Council of State Guarantees. However, as you have not taken advantage of the rights of this Member, of the remaining Members of the Opposition and of the parliamentary groups to be able to go to the Board of State Guarantees, I announce that our parliamentary group has submitted directly to the register of the Board of State Guarantees the request for an opinion on this proposal from the Law. [[Don't worry, I'll give you some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.81.0	Mr. Pedret, I remind you that 81.3 does not exclude any transit when it speaks of its possible exemption by an absolute majority. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] And don't shut down any of it, no one. Thank you. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.82.0	I suppose for the observance of the Rules. See, Madam President, Members and Members, this is not just about the Rules, it is not just about the observance of democratic rules, it is about the essence of democracy. The majority, the majority, in the democratic parliament of the world is unlimited. The majority may agree that it leaves Parliamentarians' rights as they have already done. You can interpret Article 81.3 in the most flexible way you want, I think it's overly flexible, because the Council of State Guarantees said it, but you said it, Madam President, the warning note that the letters came to you, that I assume that's why you don't want to read it and that the deputies are listening to you. He told him that, from the point of view of the way... – this note says to him – that, from the point of view of the way – from the point of view of the way of the way of the way of the way of the way of the ordinary procedure of extraordinary urgency – can be done, not by the one way of reading that supposes the disappearance, as you are trying today, of all the proceedings of debate – all of them. And that they invented a procedure that I don't want to qualify as a buccaneer procedure, that's to say, I don't like it, I shoot it and fuck it. From this point of view, let me tell you something else, President – let me tell you something else – it is that I think it should be easy to explain that the rights of citizens, the rights of political parties are not available to the majority. [[Widow's remorse.]] I mean, the right to the aversion of... [[Greetings.]] And for whom they want to try to manipulate these applause, I say I'll never have a problem matching with who is in defense of democracy. The right... [[Greetings.]] The right have the citizens, they have their representatives in the political groups. They have them, they are not graceful; with parliamentary rules they are not graceful, in democracies they are not graceful. Any right, he explained to the journalists, the right, for example, of abhorrence of the woman cannot be suspected by an absolute majority either of this Parliament or of the Congress of Deputies. So, well, the right to submit a request for advice from the State Guarantee Board is not – it is not – available for the majority, in no democracy of the world. This can be done by absolute monarchs, cannot be done by parliamentary democracy rules. It's something that should be pretty clear. Look, you can change the order of the day, place the things you want, but there's one thing that can't happen at all, and it's the right that establishes the Catalonian Autonomy Statute and the State Guarantee Board that some groups vag... And we haven't introduced it and we won't, but they have the right and the right to respect it, because, if not, from now on the majority of this chamber will be able to do exactly what they want with the rights of the rest of the deputies and deputies. And, then, from this perspective, we enter into an absolutely delicate dynamic, into an absolutely perilous dynamic. So, I ask the president that this is more of an explanation of the non-vote, because as she has seen, it turns out that there was no vote, because this procedure of "if you vote or vote... I ask the president to separate things. The alteration of the order of the day has already been incorporated, it is, it has already been voted on. Well, all right, but I can't underestimate the fact that there are groups that can submit an opinion to the Board of State Guarantees. This cannot be arranged by us, nor can it be arranged by most of the 99_per_cent of this chamber. It's a right, from this point of view. And, please, I don't know... it's that, if not, the precedent we generate is brutal. Everyone, in the end, will end up paying for this country. I mean... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.83.0	Mrs. Rovira... why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rovira...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.84.0	To do the voting position, as all groups have done. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.85.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.86.0	Miri, I suppose the citizens of Catalonia, all of them, will be aware almost after these four hours of discussion about whether we can debate a certain point or not we can debate, with the standards of the Rules of Parliament, I suppose all the citizens of Catalonia will be aware of what we are carrying for two years in this Parliament, trying to put this point of debate in the appropriate committees, in the procedures they are looking for, in the way that we would have considered worthy. These four hours that today are public, clearly public of filibusterism, of stretching the Rules for all bands, of requesting reports, of... [[Widow's remorse.]] I'd ask you to respect my intervention, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.87.0	Go on, Mrs. Rovira. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.88.0	Follow me? Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you. That's exactly what we've lived and heard. We were going to start the legislature proposing to hold this debate in a joint debate. Some groups directly told us that this was already jumping all possible limits and directly appealed to the Constitutional Court because these charges were suspended. Then, if it were to turn out that maybe it was good to start a little bit more soon and propose a study commission, just to start studying, as we did the last legislature in a study commission for the right to decide, so to start studying how it could be a process that constitutes our country. Here some groups timidly came to participate in the debate, but neither did we be able to reconcile how correct and how ordinary it is in this Parliament its conclusions, because this provoked a thousand incidents another time promoted for opposition groups before the Constitutional Court and with the prosecution's action complaining to the President and opening a thousand warnings and other incidents to other members of the Bureau. Then, I ask myself – I ask myself –, I ask myself after all this, after these two years fighting because we can complete our duty and responsibility, which is to debate what the citizens who voted for us with a mandate representing seventy-two Members in this Parliament, the question I am asking is: where did they think we would end up? Or is it that they thought that in order to be using all these procedures, challenges and suspensions we would resign from our responsibility and our political representation of those citizens who voted for us to be here in Parliament and to do this job? So we're where you're going – we're where you're going. We are using a path, which I said to the beginning when I proposed that we take this vote, we are using a path that is not the way that we would have wanted to use. We are doing the debate on the conditions to which you have brought us, it is not the conditions that we wanted to have debated, an aspect, a debate as substantive as the exercise of the right to the self-determination of Catalonia. And why do we have to do that? Why have we been forced to propose this debate under these regulatory conditions? We have a way, Rule 81.3, huh? We offer guarantees, as many as we can. But why are we here? Because we can't quit – we can't quit. Where are our rights to freedom of expression? Where are our rights to represent the citizens politically? Where are our rights to political initiative in this Parliament of what we think and believe to be a debate and vote? I just wanted to say that we're here because some of you have made a clear point of us. And we know... we know that there are, here, and still more when we have the dilemma that lies on the table, with all the instruments of the State and the opposition groups, it is if in this Parliament we have to defend the right to vote of all the citizens of Catalonia, if that is what is at stake, we will use 81.3 in the Rules of Parliament, as much as there is, because the citizens of Catalonia, all and each of them, can vote in a few ballots, exercise democracy with a reference to the future of this country. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.89.0	Thank you, Mrs. Rovira. I have the word Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.90.0	Thank you, President. In 1978 the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish self-determine by mass voting the Spanish Constitution as free and equal citizens. What we did with that gesture was also to pick up the founding spirit of the European Union, to which we aspired at that time to be a part, and which pointed out, that this founding spirit, that the great nations of Europe – the great nations of Europe – are not forged in identity or language, are forged because free and equal citizens with multiple languages and multiple identities we freely decided to constitute ourselves as a nation and to constitute ourselves as a state. Well, that, which is now so disastrous, had the support of more than 90_per_cent of Catalans – more than 90_per_cent of Catalans. We were the autonomous community that most supported the Spanish Constitution and that spirit. Shortly afterwards, in the year 79, we voted on a statute of autonomy which was governed by the same principles. And this sum of self-determination of the citizens of Catalonia is the one that has caused the period of almost forty years of greater well-being, progress and coexistence of the history of Catalonia and the rest of Spain. Is it really worth breaking for defending an identity concept of the nation? At that time, with the Statute and the Constitution, we have as Catalans and as Spaniards some rules of the game. And you are violating and breaking those rules of play without even respecting the reform mechanisms that the Catalans themselves possess to be able to do so. Is it really worth breaking the best period of coexistence that we have had for your partial and absolutely partisan vision? I therefore wish to make an appeal, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, to serenity and confidence in democracy and the rule of law. In Western Europe it is what always triumphs, what does not triumph is what you do: neither are shortcuts, nor legal subterfuges, nor deliberate concealments of information – as you have done these days – nor flagrant violations of the rights of the deputies of the democratic opposition. I would like to point out to you, since we are talking about Members, that the 135 Members present here swear or promise to comply precisely, and to enforce, the Statute of autonomy and the Spanish Constitution. Some swore, others promised, some did so with some sui generis forms, but we all did. Today we are talking about laws, but it would also be worth talking about the value of the word given, as the last refuge we have in dignity in our vocation as representatives of the popular will. Because you, in altering how you are doing the agenda, obviously break the statutory framework, the constitutional framework that you swore or promised at the time, but when you do not only violate the law, you are denigrating, as has been seen today in this shameful spectacle, the very quality of our democracy. That what you are doing violates the Statute and violates the Constitution is evident, says the ruling of the Constitutional Court 259/2015, Resolution 306/XI, which further states that this Parliament has an obligation to prevent the development of the paragraphs annulled in that resolution. Also the decision of the Constitutional Court 24/2017. In this respect, and at the end of my speech and by appealing to Rule 86.2 of this Regulation, I would ask for the first and second paragraphs of this order to be read, and I hope that this time, as is common practice in this Parliament, will be done. I would also like to ask for the extraordinary meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, because the flagrant violation of the rights of Members is also that the plenary has a series of powers that are not its own. It should be recalled that Rule 37(3) of our Rules of Procedure states that Parliament cannot take decisions which require the organisation of parliamentary work. 37.3 went further, he said that he could not decide whether to proceed with proposals for legislation, in accordance with the rules laid down in the Regulation. What has been done here does not fall within the competence of Parliament, and the Bureau must meet immediately and extraordinarily. I would like to end one last appeal. Make it clear you're not going to break Spain. Spain will continue united, strong, as one of the great, four great, engines of Europe, which is the chair that we all occupy right now as Catalans and Spanish. But what they're breaking is Catalonia. The show they're provoking is here – here – in Catalonia. They are already marginalising and violating the rights of the democratic opposition, which we have fewer deputies, but we represent more votes, and they are creating a real risk to coexistence. That would be your legacy, Mr. Puigdemont. And I use verbal time well: "It would be, if you got it, because you are very clear that we are not going to allow it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.91.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. In any case, we will make one last intervention by Mr Fachin, because all the groups have made two interventions, and therefore Mr Fachin... And then, then, we'll start with the questions to the government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.92.0	More than with the group, he asks for the word for allusions. I'm telling you why you're talking about Members' rights here, like Members, right? And I thank Mr. Carrizosa and all the rest who talk about the rights of the deputies who are trying to defend my rights, but I understand that this is an allusion. [[Widow's remorse.]] Rights... It is on the rights of citizens – it is on the rights of citizens – that is debated about everything that matters to citizens. Ciutadans has said this many times: "Hey, let's talk about what matters to the citizenry. We give an answer to the one who worries the citizenry. I believe that today, in the three hours we are carrying, we have not given a response to the citizenry. We've made a disgraceful spectacle. [[applause]] To look at another band that's the real debate. I don't agree – I don't agree, and everyone knows it – and I won't give back the proposals they make to us together for the Yes and the CUP; I'm announcing it right now. Now, the show we're giving is unfortunate. I want to discuss together for the Yes and with the CUP, I want to oppose even what they propose together for the Yes and the CUP. And do you know what's going on? What am I sure there are a lot of people looking at us saying, "What are these people talking about? What are they talking about? People don't care about the Rules, gentlemen. People are concerned that this society has a debate – has a debate – to which neither we nor the Congress of Deputies are giving an answer from years ago. And we don't collect this parliamentary majority's project, but it shames me, as a representative of the people, to spend three hours here debating what people don't care about. So far neither the Congress nor Parliament has been on the rise. We've just listened to the Lord of the People's Party. He was talking about « the word given, he was talking about « breaking up Spain. If anyone – if anyone – is responsible for having arrived here and not being able to debate and not being able to give an answer to the rise of the Catalan society you are. And when you talk about breaking Spain, what better way to break Spain is to refuse to listen to 80 percent of the citizens who live in Catalonia. When will you stop taking refuge in the Constitution to give a political response to Catalan society? Even from Catalan society like me who doesn't want an independent Catalonia. Please stand up as rulers of the Spanish State. I'm done. The word given, the word given is also: « The rescue of the banks will not cost the Spanish a_euro, sir. And you have not stopped cheating on that and everything that has to do with Catalonia. If you really care about the unity of Spain, look at Catalan society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.93.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.94.0	No, it's on a point of order. Before I asked him to speak, he didn't give me the floor. Now it allows Mr. Fachin to hold a rally. And I don't know if you give the floor depending on whether a group like We Can is split in half, but to parties that are not broken in half give us the floor too, Mrs Forcadell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.95.0	Now you've got it. Now the tea, Mr. De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.96.0	And in any case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.97.0	Now the tea, the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.98.0	In any case, we depend on whether we have the word or not depending on whether the Lords of Podemos speak first. I would ask you to respect the rights of all Members throughout this plenary session and when...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.99.0	I've always respected them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.100.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.101.0	Always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.102.0	Madam President, when Members raise their hands, regardless of the parliamentary group, be it the Socialist Group or the Group of the People's Party, I would ask you to give us the floor. Nor has it been given to the second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr José María Espejo. Be equal with all the deputies, she is no longer the president of the ANC is the president of the house of all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.103.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.104.0	For Mr. Fachin's allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.105.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.106.0	No, just to tell you that, of course, I don't intend to make gasoline so that you continue with your remarks doubting about your place in the world. So, you, absolutely quiet. I would like to address the President because I have made two very specific requests for reading a... – resolution, no – a record of the decision of the Constitutional Court, and I have also made another request to her, for the holding of an extraordinary table, appealing to 37.3 of our Rules of Procedure. I would like you to take a decision on that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.107.0	The full agreements I think are not reconsidered. He voted and decided. For these reasons, full agreements are not to be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.108.0	Time for talks and time for intervention, that's not what we've given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.109.0	Yeah, yeah. We have given, we have given... Yes, yes, we have given a time of exmenes – forgive me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.110.0	And that's not...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.111.0	He voted – he voted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.112.0	It's just that this isn't the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.113.0	He voted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.114.0	81.3 is not the object of this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.115.0	Yes, it's been voted. He voted, we gave two hours of exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.116.0	Can I ask for the word for a moment?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.117.0	No, your group has already intervened twice. [[Widow's remorse.]] In any case, let's continue with the next item on the agenda, which is questions to the government. The first question to the Government is about school segregation, formulated for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.118.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.119.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.120.0	We have told you and we have shown you the request for an opinion to the Council of State Guarantees and I understand that, as you know, because it has been submitted to Parliament by registration, that this request has entered, I believe that the President cannot decide anything about this request that we have made and that she must meet the Bureau. And the Bureau must agree whether or not it will continue with regard to the request we have made.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.121.0	Mr. Carrizosa, we voted for it. Mr. Carrizosa, I've read them out. You asked me concretely what kind of errands—what marches—were the ones that were being expelled, and I told them all the less, huh? And I told him all but one list I told him, that it was the admission to transit, huh? Then I told him about the publication, I told him about the presentation of papers and the debate and the vote. It's been voted on. Therefore, there has been a decision by the plenary and the plenary agreements are not to be reconsidered.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.122.0	No, no, And another question is that we have..., we are seeing that there is a member of the Bureau, who is Mr José María Espejo-Saavedra, who is..., who is also a Member and who is asking for the floor. And as a member of the Bureau and, in view of the procedural and regulatory issues that are being clarified here, we believe that the floor should be given.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.123.0	Mr. Carrizosa, here we are at Ple. Therefore, we are not at the table. The vice president has the word when we're at the table, but when we're at the plenary... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, you can speak in place of a spokesman for your group – in place of a spokesman for your group – but in any case, if you intervene, you will not intervene in any member of your group. Why not? So, because they've already done all... – forgive me, you've intervened – all the parliamentary groups, all of them, have intervened twice, all of them –: Catalonia Yes, it's Pot, Citizens, the Socialist Party and also... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yes, Mr. Fernández has intervened twice. Therefore, all groups have intervened twice. If he intervenes, you have no more intervention. [[Someone said, "Let me go down, let me go down. The second vice president leaves his place at the table. Greetings.]] Mr. Fernández, who has asked for the word, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.124.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ... President, we have allowed time to table amendments, we call for the suspension of the plenary because I assume you will not expect us all to meet here in corridors to draft them. Therefore, I believe that the last time an abbreviated procedure of this nature was used, which was when the Palau case was discussed, which was half an hour, if I recall correctly, of amendments, the plenary was suspended during that time. It is logical and normal, that the exact same thing should now be done, so that groups can study what they do. Thank you. [[José María Espejo-Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.125.0	Yes, Mr. Mirror.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.126.0	Yeah. As a Member – as a Member – for a regulatory issue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.127.0	Rules, all right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.128.0	Yeah, a regular, orderly question, tell him what he wants. I, if I want to, I'll... [[Widow's remorse.]] For a regulatory question relating to Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.129.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.130.0	All right, yeah. If you let me do it des del Faristol... [[Pause.]] Thank you very much. [[Pause.]] Well, thank you. Now... the agenda has been changed and the rules of the debate – the rules of the debate – have been decided, in an arbitrary manner and which does not correspond to rule 81.3. How it will be done, how long there will be amendments... That is not the object – that is not the object – of the agreement that has been taken, of changing the agenda and of admission to this new item on the agenda. Article 37.3 expressly sets out the functions of the Bureau. Admitted as it is – with the opposing vote of many parliamentary groups – this new item on the agenda, it is necessary, it is necessary for the Bureau to meet to discuss and adopt, where appropriate, the rules governing the debate on this new item on the agenda. Why? – Why? Because the agreement that has been taken by the plenary neither collects them nor can collect them; that is strictly a function of the Bureau. How long will there be amendments? Two? Why? Why did Mrs. Rovira say that? – Why did Mrs Rovira say that? [[Greetings.]] Two hours? I mean, the agreement that has been made is what Mrs Rovira says; this is what I thought I understood. Nor has it been explained – nor has it been explained – strictly and explicitly, as required by Article 81.3, the formalities that are abolished. Those who are respected have been said, but those who are suppressed have not been said, among which – which is not a regulatory procedure – is, as practically all parliamentary groups have said, the right to request an opinion. I therefore, as a Member, if you wish, not as a Vice-President, as a Member, I ask that the Bureau meet in accordance with the Rules of Procedure to carry out the duties assigned to it. Because what this House cannot do is to put itself above all the governing bodies of this Parliament for the performance of its functions. Also, as you know, there has been the clandestine publication of this initiative – the clandestine publication of this initiative – after the Legal Services of this Parliament have given express order that this could not be done by the officials of this Parliament, because it is forbidden, because we have a resolution that prevents us from processing this law. Well, there's been a clandestine publication. But what is this? Where are we going? What institutional world are we getting into? What's this? Therefore, I ask you to at least respect a function of the Bureau which you have not trampled on in this agreement, I ask you to respect that, which is to set the rules of the debate. Is there a full discussion? Are there partial amendments, or are there no ones? How long are we going to argue? When will it be published? When does Mrs. Rovira say that? Please, I ask you and I ask you, Madam President, to call the Bureau at least to decide these matters. We're getting into a very dangerous terrain – very dangerous. I absolutely agree with Mr Coscubiela, from the most absolute ideological discrepancy, and neither do I have any problem in agreeing with anyone, even Mrs Gabriel, when it comes to defending any kind of rights: we cannot do this – we cannot do this – we cannot trample the institution of Parliament, we cannot trample the institution. And I ask you, Madam President, not to contribute to this, and I ask you to summon the Bureau of Parliament to carry out the functions that the Bureau, as the governing body of this Parliament, has entrusted to it. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.131.0	The House voted, as the supreme organ of this Parliament has already voted, and we voted that it would be a consignment of items, that it would be a consignment of items of two hours' time and that after this presentation of items the debate and the vote would begin. I mean, so, that's what happened, huh? , the process of articulating issues. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] That's what this House voted on, that's what it voted on. I read them, didn't I? , I told them that..., qualification and admission to trial, that has already been done; the publication of the initiative; the trial, which we have left, we have said – was voted –, two hours, and after the debate and the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, here... it's all right, we're talking about everything you need, but that's what we voted for, and so what we're not changing is an agreement of the plenary, because I do believe that the plenary is the supreme organ of this Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.132.0	[[The speaker begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...we don't know at this point how much money it's about. Because Mrs. Rovira asked him two hours; when some have been able to vote – because others have not been able to vote – you said it would be an hour, and now he's telling us that it's two hours. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.133.0	Two hours, yes, because they voted two hours.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.134.0	Yeah, but you said an hour. Then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.135.0	I said it later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.136.0	...you must understand that confusion is important, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.137.0	Yeah. It's a mistake, I'm wrong. So, instead of two-quarters... I... I was wrong, huh? It's true, I said one hour, it was supposed to be two-quarters of three, but it's going to be two-quarters of four, because I was wrong, that's true. We had voted two hours, and I said one hour; it was my mistake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.138.0	Then, I'll ratify the petition made by the spokesman of our parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.139.0	So, they're...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.140.0	...in the sense of suspending the Ple...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.141.0	... four-quarters back...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.142.0	...so we can see if we have to prepare papers or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.143.0	No, the Ple continues. [[Widow's remorse. Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.144.0	Yes, to, first, ask that while..., if it is going to be two_hours, the time we have for amendment to the whole, then, in the meantime, the plenary will be suspended. And then for us to be specified – because in my group, the way this has been voted on and carried out, it has not been clear to us – what kind of amendments we have: if it is an amendment to the whole, if we have partial amendments, the deadlines and how everything is going to work out. So, at least, in order to avoid the definitive defencelessness of all the Members who are here, to explain to us what they want us to vote for, when and what rights we have left after we have all been wanted to be violated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.145.0	Okay. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.146.0	Yes, President; also one of order. We believe, in the first place, that after all the confusion we carry, with the hours we carry, we should clarify a little where we are...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.147.0	We're at the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.148.0	... and, therefore, precisely, the rights that remain with us in opposition, as we can exercise, those that have decided that we can exercise. I mean, we're talking about items, he's given us two hours... I understand that the plenary should be suspended so that we can work out these items, because, if not, I don't know how groups can do the job you've decided we have right to do. And, therefore, I appeal to you, and to see more of the time that it is – they are the two of the late ones –: President, suspend the plenary, let us decide if we present papers and, if we decide to present them, how we draw them up. Secondly, I also want to take advantage of the Rule that says that who orders the debates are not the spokespersons of the majority, but that it is the Bureau of Parliament. I, therefore, observance of the Rules...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.149.0	No, she's the president, not the Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.150.0	...and we want a meeting of the Bureau of Parliament, because I ordered this confusion. I think they're good at doing this. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.151.0	To do the control session, it doesn't have to be that all the deputies and deputies are here. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] We do the control session; they can submit papers. [[Xavier García Albiol asks to speak.]] Mr. García Albiol. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.152.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. Madam President, on a point of order, I would like to point out that we are certainly living the most sceptical plenary that this Parliament of Catalonia has experienced since the restoration of democracy. It is no longer a question of whether it is published, so, well, proposals without public fedatari in faith; it is no longer a question of detailing the possibilities of control and work that we have the opposition, but rather the later – and it seems to me that it is even surrealist – it is, Madam President, that you give us a two-hour period to submit papers, and you decide that opposition parties must keep us here, in the plenary, which is quite incompatible with the realization of these papers, because we have for a serious political group and the papers we have to talk about, the papers must be written, the papers must be printed, the papers must be signed and the papers must be registered. And that you make the last reference, as you did, Madam President, saying that we don't need to be all Members in the House, it seems to me that it is a lack of consideration. First, it is a lack of respect for the organization of how political groups are organized. We're the ones who decide if we all have to be here, there's got to be a... home, our obligation, I understand, to the control session, is to be present, as we've always been. We, and the rest of the political groups, at the control session we've always been present. And the second question, as I said, and no less, is the fact that you, therefore, are holding this freedom, this right that we have the deputies to organize ourselves as we think fit. Therefore, we ask you to suspend the Ple, in ladies two hours, and the groups will decide what we do and stop doing, with minimum democratic conditions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.153.0	I remember that in the case... when the other alteration of the order of the day was made, the Ple was not suspended, and they also submitted papers. But, anyway, we can suspend the ple for an hour, only. And two-quarters of four ends the term of the exams. Therefore, on the three of us we will return to the beginning of the Ple. [[Widow's remorse. Marta Rovira and Vergés ask to speak.]] Mrs. Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.154.0	In any case, to make it clear that you from our group seem good to us: if the groups consider that there must be a suspension... in any case, in the interests of guaranteeing the exams. In no case will we accept that there is confusion; it is to say, we do not suspend because there is confusion. We have explained very clearly – and I think the terms of the debate have been fixed – which vote we have made. We are at the final debate and vote; the items are in this final text. So... but we agree, say, with the proposal made by the other groups, that we suspend the session because we can do the papers. [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.155.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.156.0	Thank you. Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.157.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.158.0	...I think it's essential... And it's not a formality question, it's a question that groups have to organize our work, and we don't know with what rules of the game we can do it. Because we listened to Mrs. Rovira and we listened to the president. So, I suggest, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.159.0	Mr. Coscubiela, I made it very clear that we would suspend the Ple, when I had just spoken to you and the other, an hour, and then..., and the term of the statements ended at two-quarters of four. I think that's pretty clear, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.160.0	Yes, yes; but I'll make you a proposal, see if I can help. See, we need to know, the groups, what kind of papers we can present and how they can...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.161.0	Look at the joint, it seems to me that this has already become very clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.162.0	No, it wasn't clear. Miri, Madam President, it turns out that until now all the laws are approved with some standards of the game that are approved in a regulation. I only ask, if you please, that someone from the Bureau, that the Bureau let us know by writing down the procedure that this law will follow. [[remorse of the voice]] And that the term – and the term – to start presenting ideas begins when the groups know who the rules of the game are with which we have to act. Because so far we know, they're in the Rules, they're clear, they've got precedents, they've got a series of that... you've imposed on us some more, I don't argue with the procedure anymore, I've already tried to explain it, but, as a matter of fact, we need to know something so basic. Is there going to be a debate of totality first and then issues in the joint? Are there two interventions? All this, we need to know, because we need to organize it, President! And I think it's reasonable enough. So, please, Madam President, please let us know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.163.0	Mr Coscubiela – Mr Coscubiela – the debate will be normal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.164.0	No, normally it won't be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.165.0	...like all the other debates. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.166.0	President, tell us about this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.167.0	Two-quarters of four ends with the deadline for submission of papers. You can submit papers to the joint, and when you're done talking we'll stop the plenary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.168.0	President, may I ask, please...? [[Widow's remorse.]] They ask you to communicate by writing the standards that have been created expressly for the debate of this law, by writing. He's just asking for this. After you do what you want, but can I ask you to write that the standards are clear, as are the standards for other laws in the Rules? Is that too much to ask?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.169.0	The standards are those which have been granted to the Ple, Mr Coscubiela...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.170.0	No, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.171.0	...that I'm there – I'm there. [[Widow's remorse.]] Two hours of exams, which will end at two-quarters of four. And now we're through with the plenary, when you're done talking.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.172.0	President, let's see...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.173.0	Articulated statements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.174.0	Can't they submit statements to the totality?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.175.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.176.0	Well, can you write that down for us, please? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.177.0	It's been granted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.178.0	No, no, no, I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.179.0	I'll say the Minutes – I'll say the Minutes. [[Widow's remorse.]] The Ple is suspected until one hour, until three o'clock and god.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.180.0	It's part of the session. [[Ask the Government about school segregation]] [[310-00274/11]] Very late for everyone and everyone, we will start the first point of the order of the day, which is: ask with oral answer. First question to the Government, on school segregation, formulated for Ms.Jéssica Albiach, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.181.0	Thank you, President. My group abandoned me. Good afternoon, Counselor. I think that historical days are also important to talk about education, and above all public education. The October of last year we approved in this Parliament a motion against school segregation, and one of the points he drew forward – and, moreover, with Junts' favourable votes for the Yes – is what makes reference to the real gratuity of the system, and in concrete terms a point that spoke of the obligation to inform families of voluntary payment of allowances. And this information had to be visible on the website of the Department of Education, at the different educational centers, and also deliver it as a paper to families. And we raised it because the syndic, in his one-year report, had denounced the illegal collection of quotas from families. Moreover, now, as you know, the national pact that is being promoted and of which you are a party has been rejected, and, moreover, it has also been overwhelmingly demonstrated that the real gratuity of the system is one of the pillars of equal opportunities. And so, now that a new course begins and we have the opportunity to do things right, we want to know if you are informing the families of your rights and also if you are punishing the different centers that are not complete with this compromise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.182.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. It has the word Mrs. Clara Ponsatí, Councillor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.183.0	Good afternoon. Thank you very much. As you know, we are working very intensively and working with the Greuges Syndicate on the issue of the imbalance between the various students. And you know that because you attend the meetings we have with the syndicate, and indeed this Parliament has spoken on this subject several times. Solving the problem of school imbalance takes time and calls for the involvement of all parties. And that's not a job we're doing tomorrow. I want to point out that we have been working on this issue since the syndic wrote his report and that we have already taken steps to reduce the size of P3 groups to twenty-five, and especially P3 groups to high-complexity schools. I'd pray I'd let us work a little longer, and I assure you we'll be accountable.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.184.0	Thank you, Counselor. It has the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.185.0	Yes, thank you, Counselor. But I asked him a very specific question and he didn't answer us. And he didn't answer us because the answer is no, he's not informing the families of his rights. And, besides, we've just listened to it, now, and we were also able to listen to it during the course initiation wheel. You're trying to sell us out as if it were a success the reversal of the retail outlets you've made in the past few years. That is to say, first try to dismantle the public education system and then they want to fix their ills and present it as if it were a success. And in any case the success is not his, the success is of the educational community and his struggle in the street. Because you're the ones who still don't set up a euro at the Bressol Schools, you're the ones who have recovered funding from the school agreed on at 2010 levels and didn't do the same with the public school, and you're the ones who are allowing centers that have public money to publish to their web pages the results of the evaluation tests, which is a long way from the fight against segregation and, on the contrary, what you're doing is benefiting from school segregation. And to finish, you told me that it's working; in the end, we listen to many words and few facts. And in case you have any tempt to make any reference to the lack of presupposition, I'll tell you that the measure I was asking you for is a matter of political will and it's cost zero. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.186.0	Thank you, Mrs. Albiach. I've got the word Ponsatí Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.187.0	Thank you very much. On the measure for which you ask me concretely, we are in contact with the employer of the concerted centres and, effectively, to which you ask, the parents have all the right. And, therefore, on our part, obviously we are in favour, naturally. In any case, it seems to me that it is worth considering that the many resources that are being put into public school in this assumption, which are very important, are being put in place with criteria and with attention to favouring the centres with more complexity. And I think it's very important that we take into account that we're going back a few bits, we're going back them with great effort, and we're doing the best we can, because that favors students to the most complex schools. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.188.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the deployment of its own heritage]] [[310-00278/11]] Second question to the Government, on the deployment of the own hisenda, formulated for the lady Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.189.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, last July, a few weeks ago, we presented here to Parliament the Tax Code, which was approved; the law that must be the foundation of the Tax Administration, with the Tax Council, the Board of Tax, the Tax Research Institute and also the Tax Agency of Catalonia. An instrument designed to have a model fit for the city and that recognizes the contributor as the city and center of the entire system of tax administration; a model of collaboration that must combat, with all its tools and instruments, tax fraud. Therefore, we want a modern and efficient administration. As I said, a structure of state in the service of people, different from a model of threat, of por, of coercion to which we are accustomed in the last few days, hours or minutes ago, to which we are submissive or which we want to subservient on behalf of the Spanish Government. A government that uses the whole system with impunity and abusively, everything, even everything that is supposed to be independent, to consider us subjects and not citizens. A government that is a short time ago, a few minutes ago... the vice president of the Spanish Government said that our part, let's say the part of the Parliament of Junts for the Yes, we want to impose our ideas. In this she was totally wrong, because who imposes ideas not letting the citizens of Catalonia vote..., because the only one we are allowing to vote, that people individually expose their ideas. Not us, but they want to ban us; it's an exhibition of this Spanish government that he doesn't do or let do. The unfolding of the story is very important, therefore, to demonstrate to the citizen that the Government of the Generality, our country, is prepared. A show more than we're prepared. And we have demonstrated the last few weeks with work done, very well done, and above all for the ability to coordinate many institutions and many people who have dedicated themselves to making the Catalan heritage a good instrument. That is why, Vice-President, we would ask you to keep up with the situation of the deployment of the Catalan heritage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.190.0	Thank you, Mrs. Senserrich. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.191.0	Good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. About a year ago, we set ourselves up as the object of the deployment of the Catalan agency, the tax agency. It was a deployment involving a huge effort, an ingenious effort in a very short period of time. So much so that many were the visions that made all sorts of apocalyptic prophecies about the inevitable failure of this modernization project, of this inn project to the day of this tax agency, and fortunately, the effort of many people, therefore, has shown that these apocalyptic prophecies were absolutely unfounded. In fact, the effort was basically focused on three areas. One is the increase in the number of people working at the agency. In this sense, a very important effort has been made to incorporate persons who were linked to the offices of the registers of the property, who are persons who have a remarkable formation and who, if in doubt, will work effectively with the Catalan agency, with the Catalan heritage. The other was the deployment from an information point of view, from a technical point of view, and here we have a new program, which is Espriu, which is a program that is not only capable of managing non-periodic and very individual character taxes, of very legal character, such as donations and heresies, and which, in turn, is capable of managing mass and periodic character taxes, i.e., repeated over time. That, obviously, is very uplifting. The other element of deployment was territorial deployment, and here, therefore, we have gone to some fourteen offices, more than thirteen shares, plus a total of almost two-hundred unique windows, where the citizens, where the taxpayers can interact with the tax agency with a territorial capillary and with a proximity to the citizen and to the very relevant contributors. And, effectively, as you say, this history, this tax agency, this Catalan agency wants to relate to the citizens from these principles of trust, collaboration, transparency, convinced as they are that it is the most effective mechanism to be effective in the fight against fraud. We have raised more than €360 million of fraud, we are convinced that this money is much better served by the schools and hospitals of this country than in the pockets of fraudsters; we will continue to work in this line and in particular with a new unit that will fight the international tax fraud. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.192.0	Thank you, Vice President. I'm guessing I've been asked for an extension of the deadline for submitting papers to the law's proposal... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, they asked the Bureau, what happens is that the plenary voted. The House voted to do two hours of discussions, and then I would ask the House if it could extend this presentation until the end of the control session. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I've been asked by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. If by consent it is possible to approve the extension of the deadline for the submission of statements until the end of the control session..., given that the Ple has been the one who approved these two hours of statements, then it is to the Ple who asks if we can extend it until the control session is over. [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] Therefore, it is extended until four o'clock approximately, which will be the end of the control session. Thank you. [[Ask the Government about the beginning of the 2017-2018 school year]] [[310-00279/11]] Now we can continue: third question to the Government, on the beginning of the 2017 and 2018 school year, formulated for Mr Bernat Solé, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.193.0	Thank you, President. Honourable counselor, the next 12th of September begins a new school year. In fact, the master and teacher cloisters are already working intensively at each of the educational centers, since the 1st, to get the students and thus start the new course. The economic crisis of the past few years has also affected our schools and our institutes, and it has precisely been our educational model that has allowed us to reduce existing inequalities and thanks to the work they do, day after day, educators, the Catalan school has been a backbone of equal opportunities in the system, and has always endowed our students with tools, values and skills. Despite everything, we can't go through the hard times our country suffered on August 17. Precisely a few days ago, you yourself referred to the press wheel, and explained the Department's meeting with the Central Board of Directors in order to coordinate the actions that last for the term and the materials that will be delivered from the same department during this school year. Since the parliamentary group I represent, we believe that the Catalan school is, and I want to continue to feel, a model of reference. And, therefore, we want to highlight the importance of these initiatives, as well as all those that are needed to ensure social cohesion in each of the municipalities of our country. For all the talk, counsel, I would like to ask you about which will be the main axes of action, on behalf of the Department that you encapsulate, for this course 2017-2018. And let me, too, take advantage of it to encourage and wish our students and educators a very good start to the course, as well as to thank them, once more, the essential task that they have to do at the end of the day. Many thanks, President; many thanks, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.194.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Solé. In response, Ms. Clara Ponsatí, Education Advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.195.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. The storms of August 17th will mark, with a sense of doubt, the beginning of this course. These facts invite us to make a common reflection between the whole educational community and we have already given to know various actions in this sense. Getting straight to the question you ask me, the course starts with 5,514 teachers nous. We have increased the teaching template by a 7_per_cent– deu-n'hi-do, a 7_per_cent. We put in a lot of resources and assign them to increase the fairness and quality of the system. Therefore, in the school year that has now begun, we will follow five main strategic lines. First, we will consolidate the autonomy of the centres. Since the past course, the centres have been taught with specific profiles for their educational project. The novelty of this course is that it is now the management team that makes the proposal for a teaching appointment. It does, of course, with publicity and free competition. Second, we will consolidate the skills learning at all stages and levels of education. It is recommended by experts and international bodies and the results are strongly positive. ESO's graduation has increased from 78_per_cent to 89_per_cent in two years. And the premature abandonment reached the 18_per_cent, and we came – remember-ho – of the 30_per_cent. Third, the quality of the education system has its foundation in the quality of its teachers. Therefore, our third strategic line will be teacher training and educational innovation. Fourth, the FP: we will continue to expand the dual training offer, which has already reached more than two thousand students, but it must not attract much more. And, finally, we have a lot of people with science, technology, engineering and mathematics. We propose to deploy the Stemcat plan with the highest ambition. We have a good system and last year's policies are in a good position, but we can't fall asleep. The course begins well prepared, I am confident that it will be a great school for everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.196.0	Thank you, Counsellor Ponsati. [[Ask the Government about the modulated frequency emission dam of the iCat channel]] [[310-00280/11]] Fourth question to the Government about the modulated frequency emissions dam of the iCat channel. The question is posed by Ms Teresa Vallverdú, from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.197.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, today is an important day and it is an important day for the culture of our country. After a _month of August in tests, iCat returns to the FM. As you know, iCat was born in 2006. In 2012, the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans decided to renounce its broadcast for the modulated frequency due to the reduction of inputs and adopted a multi-channel model online through the web and mobile applications. In five years out of one, the audience, the music sector and many different actors have maintained the vitality of the broadcaster and also the constant willingness to return it to the place where we went out. And, so, today we're holding iCat back to the FM. A step, however, that does not abandon digital space, but strengthens it with a new web, integrated into the portal of Catalunya Radio and a new mobile application. Today, iCat pulls with a bunch of dissette programs, which aim to enhance our country's music and to increase the offer of cultural programs. The Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation and the Department of Culture, Catalonia Radio and ICEC, have worked together because this object was real. Since it cannot be otherwise, we value this return very positively, the return of a public musical radium, which wants to enhance the Catalan musical scene and which is on the side of industry and artists. That it wants to value Catalan music production on the international side, that it wants to create musical success and be the launch platform for the country's nine bands and musicians, and that it wants to spread music live from concerts and festivals. But together with the great programs of the broadcaster, along with directs and a presence at most concerts and festivals in the country, this new iCat does not have any new thematic proposals on music, cinema, series, scene, books, comics, because iCat passes to the FM with an ambition objective, with the clear objective of serving as an impulse to the country's culture. Promote the consumption of theatre, cinema, video games, comics, books, series and creation, especially of emerging artists. Working together with the main agents, festivals, cultural centers, theatres, halls, promoters, and being the indispensable space at the time of adding new audiences to the music, to our parent, very responsive and much needed. Therefore, counselor, we would like to know how you see and how you live, from your department, the return of iCat FM. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.198.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vallverdú. The word "Mr. Lluís Puig", Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.199.0	Thank you, President. Indeed, honourable Member, we see, from the Department of Culture, that we are a country that every time the creators are more and better. The sum of the model, of the formation, the production and the exhibition, is going more and better; iCat FM was a broadcaster that demanded all cultural sectors, and especially the musical, for some time. That is to say..., and I want to quote my predecessor, a company of uncertain travel, the honourable councillor Santi Vila, as, from a participatory process with all the musical sectors, which are very plural and very diverse, it was possible to make a whole..., it was possible to finish an integral plan of Music, and the complaint that it was returned to antennas this broadcast was one of the main axes, therefore, accepted everywhere. For this reason, through the ICEC, as you, a Member of Parliament, has begun a work so that today, at the end of the morning, the analog broadcasts of the antenna have begun. Surely we will not be able to fulfill all the expectations of the cultural world, because we really are missing communication media, public or private, that yes..., that have this vision about the culture of the country. And so, we'll thank all the energies, the dialog and the work, the colza to rape, with the senders, and we'll really expect it to be a leading broadcast, precisely because it's been able to maintain, these five years of digital world, let's say, resisting, working and reflecting on everything, as it should be. So let's just say, if we're past this digital age and now it's back to antenna, it's going to have the effect of adding more and better. Therefore, let's hope that with this help to reflect this antenna, this broadcast through the antennas, we can give real sight, from the most emerging sectors, to the most professional, with special dedication to music in catalá, not to say, but also with daring programs like..., if you look at the graella you can see, at all, a program that is called iCatKids, dedicated to children, dedicated to that of very small, so, at home also..., the fact of listening to the radio, listening to music in catalá at home can be a normal thing. Which seems very normal, but so far, it's total and absolute abnormality. Therefore, they will look for all types of public fringes, specialized timetables and we hope to give consistent response to this long complaint. So, today, this morning I took a tweet that said: "Good morning, iCat FM!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.200.0	Thank you, Counsellor Puig. [[Ask the Government about the communicative management of the Interior Department in relation to the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of August 17th.]] [[310-00272/11]] Five questions to the Government on the communication management of the Department of Interior in relation to the Barcelona and Cambrils storms of August 17. The question is posed by Mr Alberto Villagrasa, of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.201.0	Thank you, President. First, we would use the question to make a recognition to the security forces, both Mossos d'Esquadra, Guardia Urbana, local police of Cambrils, Sant Sadurní and Guardia Civil and National Police, firefighters and emergency services, for their work of the attack of the 17th and subsequent days. Counselor, you, on the 25th, wanted to appear and give explanations of what had happened during the 17th and the next days, before dismantling the terrorist cell that attacked in Catalonia. To this day, we don't know anything else. We hope that you, by your own decision, would like to appear in order to explain how it was managed, and some doubts that arise, about the 17th and the subsequent days. And we look forward to their attendance so that we can go into depth on some issues that we believe are important. But yes, we will ask you how you managed the information: we want you to explain to us why the contradictions and continuous denials during those days that, in the end, in some way, also leave people and all Catalans with some uncertainty, such as, for example, denying the Belgian police's warning about the Ripoll magnet, or when you denied the CIA's warning about a possible attack on the Ramblas in Barcelona, among others. Can you explain to us why the Government of the Generalitat i del Departament d'Interior continues to contradict and deny these contradictions?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.202.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Reply by Mr. Joaquim Forn, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.203.0	Thank you. Well, in any case, in the first place, thank you, so..., the gratitude that you have made and of recognition to all public services, in a special way to the Squad Mousses, to the Urban Guard and to all services..., Civil Protection, Emergencies, etc. I think it's just doing so, and it seems to me that you've also made a proposal in this sense. In second place, the appearance. I asked her to appear right away, and the chairman of the Security Committee knows that, because I asked him if he could compare the sale, he does..., I think it's a good couple of days. Therefore, my will was to compare. Finally, he did not accept, he considered that he had to wait and, therefore, we would wait. Contradictions, Captain. Precisely, I believe that we, and the communication policies that we were going to have, recognizable all over the world, and including for Catalan society, for all the foreign communication media, was exactly the opposite of what you say. It was possible to act in a clear way, through different channels, through the..., face-to-face, in which I compared myself, personally, and the very major of the Squad's Mossos Cos. I think we didn't just compare, but we've always accepted all the questions from all the media; therefore, contradict what you're reporting. And then, through important channels, also, in this case, as are social networks. And our intention, basically, was to inform with rigour, to give information, to avoid rumors and, above all, to make a lot of false information that was running at those times. From Twitter's point of view, we made 320 pelagics. The first, at 17.10, thirteen minutes after the overrun is produced. And we've also done an important task of empowering citizen collaboration through these means. I honestly believe that you have nothing to do with the information that you say with what really happened and which has been of great recognition on the part of the citizenry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.204.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.205.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Forn, I want to think you weren't lying, but someone was misreporting you. And surely he did not inform him of the Director General, who was missing, not only for the political groups, but also for all the agents of Mossos d'Esquadra. But we are also surprised by some of his statements, when asked, and in the end he acknowledges that there were contacts about the Belgian police, he said it was an informal contact. When someone comments that this person, Ripoll's magnet, could be close to jihadist terrorist groups, that ceases to be informal, what has to be done is to investigate and be on top of the issue. Or, for example, about the CIA communiqué, the most important thing is that you lied. You did not tell the truth, did not tell Mr. Trapero, major of the Mossos d'Esquadra, nor did the President of the Generalitat say it. And the CIA is no one for you to be explained and told, to you, and to the Mayor of Barcelona, that the Ramblas of Barcelona are a critical point that can suffer a terrorist attack at any time, on alert four, terrorist. And this, you had to know and the CIA wouldn't have to tell you. We'll wait for your appearance, Mr. Forn, because there's a lot to explain. Because on August 17, at 1650 in the afternoon, the Ramblas of Barcelona were totally unprotected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.206.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. There's a word for Councilman Forn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.207.0	Yes, I agree that there is much to explain, and the one who will have to start explaining many things is the minister, who has certainly not asked for any appearance..., and is denied to give his face, because in the appearances he does in public media he never answers questions. Therefore, the first question we will have to ask the minister, and he will have to explain why since the year 2005 [[applause]] – since the year 2005 – the phone of the imam had been tapped and this information did not appear in the Squadron Moss. But this and many other questions are what your government will have to answer, as will another: all the disinformation campaign they have generated through some media to discredit the work of the Mossos. You'll have to answer that, too. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.208.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about LGBTI activities]] [[310-00275/11]] Sisena asks the Government about the actions in the matter of LGTBI, formulated for Mrs Naomi de la Calle, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.209.0	Consellera Bassa, just a few days ago you publicly applauded an article in which the concept of "homophobia" was trivialized, comparing the situation of a gay man in Morocco with that of a Catalan man in Spain. Not content with it, he took the opportunity to attack the Observer against the Homophobic, questioning his neutrality, and questioned his character as an observatory. More than 20 Catalan LGTBI entities, harassed and opposed to their statements, have signed a manifesto and asked it to rectify or resign. You have a chance to do that today, Counselor. Will he rectify and side with those who contribute to the eradication of one of the greatest social scourges that exist or will he follow alongside those who contribute to trivializing it? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.210.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. Next is the words of Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Social Affairs and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.211.0	Thank you, President. Before anything, like we're a government that we believe in for equality, I wanted to give all the support to your president of the parliamentary group for the tweet she received yesterday, who knows that we've already said it personally as much as I do other advisors, and that I'm doing it now on behalf of the whole government. [[Greetings.]] Referring to what you explained, I gave the support to a journalist, Empar Moliner, in an article that said "Tactic Trump, and she explained what time back had done..., she had written: "Being Catalan in Spain is like being gay in Morocco, saving distances, and explaining that there were times when the same laws in different places represented very different things. I said, compare, for example: "If you are Catalan in Spain, and the Statue falls; if you are valence, a similar statue is drawn forward. And then she said, "That the observer accuses me of this Trump tactic, because he says I make insults when I don't do it, he means to tell me what insult I've done. My tweet was: "Anims, Empar Moliner; your opinions are often raw but they are real, referring to the theme of català. Then, when someone asked me, I said, "The observer entity has a subsidy, so for the first time we have given it recollection; it is an entity, beyond its name, and this is the opinion of an entity. Beyond that, as I understand it, we have set up the national board of entities, we have gone from twenty-five to thirty-five, and will not find any insult or anything against LGBTBI people from either this government's or my parliamentary group's deputy. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.212.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for the street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.213.0	Madam Counselor, we have already seen that you are unable not to talk about the process. In his tweets he praised and supported both articles, and in them you, with it, have supported the thesis that the observer instrumentalizes the LGTBI collective to bring down the Department of Social Affairs, but who is causing your counseling to fall is you and your management, or the lack of it. Mrs Bassa, please note that your statements have further joined the LGTBI collective, regardless of your political affiliations and sympathies, in a manifesto condemning your statements in which you even get to ask for your resignation. And the criticism of his management does not come from two days ago, not only the observer has been pointing out what fails, other parliamentary groups, the Synod of Greuges, associations, activists... As far as Citizens is concerned, our parliamentary group has tabled this legislature two proposals for the effective deployment of the law, and we have also twice requested his appearance to explain why the law is not being properly deployed, and twice the vote against Junts pel Yes has prevented you from giving explanations. The criticisms received by his council are due to the lack of political will to effectively deploy the law that guarantees the rights of the LGBTI collective to non-discrimination in Catalonia. The thing is, this government can't stand the criticism. And I'm going to tell you one thing: there's something worse than criticism, and you know what it is? The truth. And what happens in Catalonia is that when someone dares to put the cards on the table and tell the truth about what you are doing or not doing, about your inaction, about your lewdness, your only reaction is to disqualify professionals and despise entities and those who stand ahead, because you are always right and others are not. You, instead of being on the side of equality, are on the side of inequality, because at the moment when you stand in front of the victims instead of at your side you are no longer the social affairs adviser becoming the councillor of inequality. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.214.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.215.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. It looks like the way I answered and started the answer... you don't really see what you were wearing for writing. Tell him the observer is an entity that does a great job. Yesterday, in fact, she rocked, and she herself... they explained the position she has in relation to the department, the coordination with the Mosses, the performance, and she was very critical of the current sanctioning regime. I'll tell him I'll take it, too. Therefore, we are working to improve it, together with the observer and the other thirty-seven more entities that are working with LGBTI people throughout Catalonia. Thank you for giving me little to explain.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.216.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the management of the protest right]] [[310-00276/11]] Seven questions to the government, about the management of the protest law. The question is posed by Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.217.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Counsellor, at the demonstration held last August 26th, in revulsion against terrorist attacks, we had to regret the display of party symbols and banners, disrespect, bulging against all those who were not part of the secessionist universe. With the help of the ANC and Ómnium, this demonstration against terrorism became a demonstration against Spain and its institutions. See, this question I think I know... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is it clear to you who I am addressing? Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.218.0	Quiet, please; yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.219.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.220.0	Go on, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.221.0	Is that you, Mr. Turull? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Who? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Inside? All right. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Good, good, good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, shall I go on, then?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.222.0	Yes, yes, I continued.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.223.0	This demonstration became, as I said, a demonstration against Spain and its institutions. I ask you, counselor: Did you like the image you gave yourself? We have not heard the Government demarcate what happened there, and now you have a chance. Do you censor the partisan use of this demonstration?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.224.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr. Joaquim Forn, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.225.0	Well, it's nothing to do with the question they asked, but, well, it's still... I'll answer it, too. We... first, I did not attend this demonstration that you said you had participated in, in which it was a demonstration against Spain. I believe that the 500,000 people we were there went there with a very clear motto: to reject terrorism and to demand a living and peaceful society. [[Greetings.]] This seems to me to be the will, the will of most of the people there. And, second of all, this will, I felt..., about the first people I heard talking about the radio was Mrs. Inés Arrimadas, and it was precisely about a small minority that there was..., she said that they were rude, but it was about the vast majority of people who precisely attended this demonstration for this reason. So this is where I went. I can't say anything more. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.226.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.227.0	Look, Mr. Counsellor, at the demonstration you attended, it must have been the one behind all these "strategically distributed stellates by your ANC and Cultural Ómnium partners." It seems very curious that many of the tens of thousands of people were not using organized banners and "organised stellates," and this surprises us, and it does not seem like a coincidence. You, with the ANC and Ómnium, prepared everything, Mr. Counsellor, and don't deny it. President Puigdemont appeared yesterday, and acknowledged it at a press conference, saying that he had commented..., the press conference concerning Mr Mas and his payments to the Court of Auditors, had commented it with ANC and with Ómnium Cultural. Now acknowledge that you are also preparing the politicization of anti-terrorism demonstrations with your ANC and Cultural Ómnium partners. Where was not the hand of you, of your Government? For, look, it was not noticed either in Ripoll, nor in Cambrils, nor at the Mass of the Holy Family, where all the attendees were respectfully those who gathered outside the temple of the Holy Family without making use of symbols or politicized banners. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.228.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.229.0	Neither did the use of this misfortune, of this terrorist attack, nor was it made use of in the Ramblas, where the citizens deposited their memories. Where the Government's hand was noticed was where the institutions of the rest of the State attended. Fortunately, Catalonia is much more than what you organize by orchestrating together with the ANC and with Cultural Ómnium and with... ; it is much more than what TV3 shows in its programs...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.230.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.231.0	...obeying the dictate of the government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.232.0	Thank you. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.233.0	Well, I, listen, it's been a long time since I think people can go to demonstrations with what they want, with the flag they want and what they want. Maybe you're the ones who decide... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, these are the ones that deleted some communication medium; all these flags are the ones that deleted some communication medium [[applause]] , effectively – effectively. People have the right to go with the flags they want, people have the right to express what they want. Let's see if we can learn that. Because so much talking about democracy a moment ago... democracy is also this, that people can express themselves freely. Organizers. We're not the organizers. I deix'm telling you something. There's one thing the politicians have to do. I've been misled. And you can do one thing when I say, you can say that pains that are my friends, and another thing, that I think is intelligent, is to think, "Why do I say that? Why did this happen? [[Greetings.]] And maybe—maybe—you'll understand something: you'll understand this country and why a lot of people don't understand the paper you're making and a lot of other people. So, that's the explanation, that's the explanation that I can give him about this. But think, it's not a complaint, it's not the people's fault, it's not; it's the people's fault and it's a lot of thousands of other people. I'm not wrong. And that's the reality. Ask 'cause what's going on? Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.234.0	Thank you, Mr. Forn. [[Ask the Government about the rights of the LGBTI collection]] [[310-00277/11]] Let me ask the government a question about the rights of LGBTI collections. The question is posed by Mrs Mireia Vehí, from the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.235.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, good afternoon. Today we also ask about the rights of LGBTI people because we are concerned that at the gates of October 1st we have to make a negative balance of the legislature in this sense. It has already been mentioned earlier in this Ple, this month of October will be three years from the approval of Law 11/2014. It has also been explained that his Government has not yet deployed the rule, which is essential for establishing the sanctioning regime, and, moreover, which has not yet been mentioned, but the body created by him has only one sanction and the application of precautionary measures on the Hazte Oir bus, while only the Observer against Homophobia has recorded more than 260 cases of possible discrimination. It is not the first law in the area of rights guarantee to be approved and is not implemented. In fact, with the Law of Equality between Men and Women and the Law to eradicate male violence against women has passed the same. And we are deeply concerned, obviously, that, at the gates of the republic, his government gives a little compromise with the rights of women, lesbians, gays, transgender and all those people and gender identities who suffer from patriarchal violence. What value does it make, you?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.236.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Answers Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.237.0	Thank you, President. MP, if it refers to what value in fact, of the law, the law was approved in Parliament and, therefore, very good value. Now, you know as well as I do that this law passed in 2014 – therefore, 11/2014 – had a regulatory aspect, a rule to regulate. We started this generation in 2016, and, according to the press and the legal advisor, we still have six months to go, due to bureaucratic problems, not our problems, but we were going to start immediately when we started as the government. Meanwhile, the law said that the common sanctioning regime had to be applied. This is a rule that can only be applied to insults, harassments, verbal assaults; therefore, all that are physical assaults and threats must go through criminal channels, and that is how we are regulated. I believe that we have improved many things: we have opened councils, we are in all trades, we have integral centers to be able to present all the contributions and all the complaints of the people, and, despite that, we need to be able to finish this rule; rule that in six months it will be much better. But also with the new law, which you know is in parliamentary air and, therefore, of equal treatment we can pose many fears that we have not been able to punish now. So, it's not what we want, it's what we can do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.238.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word Mrs Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.239.0	Thank you, President. We didn't just ask him about the law, which is an instrument and which should be deployed, but we asked him a question a little deeper: about the policies his government has deployed. Precisely you said: "Physical attacks. One of the most recent data from the observer's report presented to the Igualtat Commission yesterday is that the largest discrimination is physical assault. And the physical assaults that you send to the penal path – and that is correct – are not only solved in this way. Miri, male violence, in all its futures, is only the tip of the iceberg of a system of relations, values and patriarchal practices. Moreover, violence is never a casual event, nor is it a thing of people who are lame; it is the logical consequence of an approved and supported system throughout the society that discriminates and educates to discriminate. Only the year 2016, this same report that we have quoted, has collected eighty-four cases of discrimination. Imagine'sels not arriving. What has your government done, in the matter of LGTBI, to eradicate the violence from its background? What has your government done to fight against the patriarchy that murders and systematically attacks all those people who come from the boss man? Look, we, the republic, we want to be feminist, and in the process, we are going to put all our part and all our determination. What have you done so far?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.240.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Counselor Bassa responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.241.0	Thank you, President. I believe that, as the government, we have given very clearly that we are for the themes of equality. From a good beginning, for example, a general direction of equality, which previously did not exist. And this allows you to double the premise on all themes of equality. But we are talking about LGTBI, I answered before: to the National Council of LGTBI, 28_per_cent more entities than there were in the last legislature. Therefore, we have continued to improve all these themes. You were talking to me about eighty complaints or lawsuits; of these eighty, fifty-three are from the department. So, I think that yesterday, when the observer was made, there were numbers that the observer answered, that you do not complain – you know that he only advises – and he can point out that there are fears; the complaints are fan by the administrative way – therefore, the Generality –, or by the penal way, or by the prosecutor. Fifty-three complaints: twenty-nine administrative complaints, fourteen criminal complaints and five labour complaints. We could have done more; and here we lack the rules. We will continue to develop the rule, be on the side of all equality issues at all times and do as much as possible so that we can reach a feminist republic, just as you want. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.242.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on democratic guarantees]] [[310-00273/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on democratic guarantees, addressed to Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.243.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, "this goes from democracy, they say, while they violate the Statute of Autonomy, while they retaliate the rights of opposition, as they spent this morning in this Parliament. "This is democracy," they say; "but you, counselor, know that democracy is not just about putting the ballot boxes, voting, but it is about fulfilling all the conditions for voting to be expressed with all the legal and political guarantees. The government has announced several months ago that they want to make a reference – that, as the people of this Parliament and the Council of State Guarantees say, it will be illegal – on the independence of Catalonia. Could you tell us what the electoral cos is called to vote that day at the polls? Do they have cents? They're sending out censals? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.244.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.245.0	Yes, thank you very much. Mrs Granados, as we have been explaining for a very long time, as you have explained this morning the Marta Rovira, as Members and Members have been explaining the territory, there is a clear determination to make a reference, there is a clear determination to resolve democratically a question of a great complexity but that demands an immediate answer, and the guarantees will be all, as they have always been for the last thirty years; from the point of view not only that we have already explained many times, but also from the point of view, as we are obviously on conditions of doing already today. Guarantees are there and will always be.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.246.0	Thank you, Counsellor Romeva. There's the word Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.247.0	Thank you. Counselor, twenty-two days are missing, and maybe they can't fool you any more. I should be able to tell us what the electoral cos is; I should be able to tell us if they're going to make censuses. The other day the president was asked in an interview and he didn't answer either. Is there going to be a mail vote? Is there a vote on the foreigner? Will there be booths to guarantee the vote? Is there going to be fair months? Because only two things can be happening to these lifts, counselor: one, that there is nothing, and therefore they are very late, and therefore they are deceiving everyone; or that they are building a hundred without the law that they take. In the first case, obviously, it will be a scam, because if you want to do it the way you always do, then we need to know how many people have to vote to know their percentages. If they wanted to do it the way they always did, the hundreds would have to close two months before they celebrated this reference. Because if they want to do it the way they always do, voters should be able to consult the census and rectify it. And so, if..., it's very likely they're not doing anything at all. But the second case concerns us even more, because if you're making a hundred without the law you're getting them, then, counselor, I want you to tell us if you're moving our personal data. Because they didn't want to do Mr. Vidal's commission of inquiry... And again I ask: are you violating Catalan, Spanish, European data protection standards to create a list of data of more than 5 million Catalans? Are our names, addresses and IDs being used to put them on lists for this reference? The lists of these personal data will go to these presidents who will end up with NCA speakers, who will preside over these electoral pseudo-months if they come up? It would be very dangerous that you are making a false cents and that above you are willing to violate our intimacy, making the protection of personal data of the citizenry fly through the air, to which you have the right and the obligation to protect. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.248.0	Thank you, Mrs. Granados. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.249.0	[[The counselor begins to speak without using the microphone, which is why the first words have not been recorded.]] ...to remind him that the year 2005 was a revision of the Criminal Code in which the references were decriminalized. It's an objective fact, it's a democratic fact, and it's a legal fact. Therefore, from the point of view of the way, I can say that what we are doing or what we want to do is illegal. Point number one. Point number two. As we have explained very well this morning, it is clear that the international environment, both from the legal point of view and from the practical point of view, makes it perfectly possible to do what we want to do, which is the exercise of the right to self-determination. Since 1991 there have been fifty-three references. We don't think we're doing such an extraordinary thing. But let's get to the concrete. If you talk about concrete, very simple measures: when we have the law, there will obviously be the decree of complementary measures, that what you will do is establish wire as it is done. If you have a lot of interest, there is a web site, which is absolutely public and knows it everyone, which is called Guarantees. That is why all these developments are perfectly explained. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm not talking about the guarantee. cat, that this is another – this is another –, and this precision is not in the line that I think is asking us for citizenship. Guarantees. Cat, plural. This is an absolutely clear and clear place from the point of view of what we want to do. But from a political point of view, we have done everything with the guarantees that the State has allowed us so far. Or wasn't it done with guarantees, the Statute of Catalonia? And where are we now? We are precisely there where those who have violated the democratic guarantees of the state of law, that until now we believe that we could allow the right of free expression of everyone..., it is not so, and therefore we must do things in the way democraticly, peacefully and legitimately do things in the 21st century, which is asking, listening and responding to these answers. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.250.0	Thank you, Counsellor Romeva. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the defence policy of an eventual independent Catalonia]] [[317-00186/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. The question is posed by Mrs Gabriela Serra, from the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.251.0	Good afternoon. Unfortunately, like many other cities before, Barcelona suffered a brutal terrorist attack this past August. And we've seen as the pocket of the security units, the Urban Guard, health personnel, emergency units, firefighters, taxi drivers..., together with a serene and exemplary citizen response, and also a political action overworked people, given that the army was not deployed, was an extraordinary response. Sense of doubt, it will be better; much better from information, coordination, prevention, social cohesion. All right, it'll be hot. We've seen it before in one of the answers the Inner Councilor had to make. And we've also seen, by other side, like terrorist attacks, those that have already suffered and those that are still being painted in other countries of Europe, they're not faced with conventional armies. Then, President, I ask you: why did you, speaking of this terrible time, make a reference and relate it to the indispensable need for the independent Catalonia that we want to build an army?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.252.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.253.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good afternoon. Good afternoon, Congresswoman. To contextualize exactly the answer I gave: it was in the mark of an open session through a chat and via Facebook Live. One city asked if I thought Catalonia had to have an army or not, and it seemed to me that there were two things to say. The first is a defence policy. That today's defense policies, in the countries around us, give them term armies, but modern armies. And I pointed out as one of the threats– I think we agree here–, plus, that we have as society– not as the country, but as society–..., it was the threat of radicalism, of Gihadist violence. And that, therefore, before that, it is necessary to have defence tools not only to defend us, but to be able to contribute to the effort made by other countries in the fight against what is, indeed, a global threat. I said exactly that and I'm ratifying it. And I also agree with you that, from these experiences, we need to get better and learn, we need to have a long look and we need to understand that we are not getting away from this threat. Whoever thinks he's safe from this threat is wrong. And, therefore, assuming that we are an object of threat, I think it is coherent to think that, in the planning of the future, a country must have..., must have its own defence policy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.254.0	Thank you, President. There's the word "Mrs. Serra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.255.0	Certainly, President. There are many security problems on the planet: bile conflicts; families; humanitarian crises; the environment; the poor; refugees fleeing from all this; cyberattacks; mafias; organized crime. There are still threats to engage with many new policies, but there are no better people for a conventional defence policy with an army, military industry, arms trade, etc. I mean, don't get better with the use of institutionalized violence to end arms-based violence and war negotiations. As CUP - Crida Constituent, we believe that precisely the creation of the Catalan Republic must serve us to define which must be the responsible and solidary contribution of our country in promoting a global human security aimed at promoting the culture of pa. And precisely, the creation of another army will not go into this perspective. Let's hope and strive because in the process they constitute that we succeed in phoning this new republic into the force of reason, justice, equity, diversity, respect, solidarity, and not in the cause of force: militarism, exploitation, discrimination, racism... Arrive at this moment, President, for what purpose will you choose?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.256.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.257.0	Thank you very much. First, I repeat what I have said and what I have always said in referring to this question: I have never spoken of a conventional army – conventional army – I have often referred to the nine threats that modern societies have. I think you don't get away with it, and most people don't get away with it, that the main attacks and the main vulnerabilities that most countries now have don't come through conventional weapons or conventional armies, but from a space where every time there is more importance of security concepts like cybersecurity, cyberwar, cyberspace. Therefore, it is clear that we must have a defence policy as a minimum in this area. Now, in any case, who will decide how this defence policy should be, whether the citizens decide that Catalonia should be an independent republic, how it should be related to the other countries, what kind of military structure – whether or not it should have it – will be the citizens. And my opinion will weigh just as much as yours and that of everyone at the time of defining and expressing how we want this defence policy to be. In any case, I'm sure you and I will defend different ideas, but you and I work so that we can defend these different ideas from freedom and democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.258.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about his statements regarding the need to detail the speaking time and the rights of Members of Parliament's opposition.]] [[317-00184/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.259.0	Thank you, President. Mr President, this morning we had a session in which very clearly they violated and violated the rights of the Members of the Opposition. And I have to tell you that for us this is not a casual event; it is not a casual event because a few days ago you were in an interview in a very clear way that you had to hide, that you had to cut down on the debate time of the Members of the Opposition in Parliament. In short, a list of rights that we have members of this Parliament's opposition. Seeing what we saw today, Mr. President, what we experienced this morning, did I maintain this statement that the time and rights of the opposition deputies should be extended?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.260.0	Thank you, Mr. García Albiol. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.261.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. García Albiol, if you need me exactly in what place and in what terms I have made this statement... because you're all alien and you're all stranger to me, but I'll appreciate it, that maybe for some transcriptional error or some interpretational error someone has put something in my mouth that I don't think, that I don't think absolutely. On the contrary. In fact, I... have heard myself say here that I invite opposition groups, that so far they have prevented us from having the process and the parliamentary debate appropriate to this type of law, that they have done so. Therefore, I would be in contradiction with what you say I defend. On the contrary. And just because we feel so much about parliamentary processing is because today we just have to make the wording that you know and this Parliament will end up defining, because we want it to come out of this Parliament to task the government to do the things that it has purchased to do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.262.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.263.0	Madam President, the president asks me to explain it; he asks you not to run the time and I will explain it. [[Widow's remorse.]] He made reference..., he made reference to an interview of the Diumenge past in the La Vanguardia diari, when asked: « Will you guarantee the rights of the opposition in the Parliament? And you said: "If we gave them more time to debate, they would say that we should not discuss it, and they would deny us this right. Mr President, this is a violation, it is a reflection of the rights that we have members of the opposition. And I ask you, Mr President, is this the republic... these are the ways and forms of the Catalan theoretic republic? A Catalan republic to which in a very clear way is to detail the rights of the opposition, is to question those diaries that do not follow the official version of the Government, to initiate boycott campaigns in these media of communication, is to terme campaigns through the public television of Catalonia on some laws that the Parliament has not yet approved, say that they did not accept the resolutions adopted by the judiciary, that they have partners of the government, the lords and the lords of the UPC, who say that the opposition is not going to settle and that some of us are already taking photographs between repositories, I understand that in prison. In all this has become what is Catalan politics and the independence project that you defend. I don't want to think what I'd say, for example, President Tarradellas if you raise your head. Today you intend to start, in the long run, the worst institutional crisis that Catalonia has experienced since thirty-six years ago, since the coup d'état that was the month of fever. And I want to make it very clear that if what you are asking us is all that you are teaching us, that it is the worst face of politics, the worst face of democracy, I can assure you that this project will not come forward, because neither this Parliament, nor the People's Party, nor the Government of Spain will allow it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.264.0	Thank you, Mr. García. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.265.0	Thank you very much. I'm glad you've spelled out exactly the paragraph you're not saying what you attributed to me. You'd give me the chance to detail the time, the rights and the possibilities for Members to intervene, which I didn't say. What I said to him is one thing I keep: whether it's for the right as if it's for the reverse, whether it's for a procedure as if it's for the other, what you don't care about is that there's a parliamentary debate about the right of Catalans to vote. That's it. They'll lose after talking about working, talking about illiterates, talking about guarantee councils, talking about parliamentary regulations..., all this is very important, but what is really important, and what gives the job to working, to parliaments, to illiterates, to guarantee councils, you know who they are? They're the citizens. And do you know what the citizens are asking for? , not today, not as a consequence of a fever, not as a consequence of this manipulation that you repeatedly accuse the public media of Catalonia, for which they demand that they have much more respect than they do not, but as a consequence of a long, long, persistent claim of respect– of respect– of respect– of respect for democratic rights; I would say more: of respect for human rights. Because in human rights there is the right of peoples to their free determination. And Catalonia is a people that has right to its self-determination. Catalonia is a nation and has sought to be recognized as such in the framework of the constitutional pact. But this constitutional pact you – especially, you certainly weren't the only ones, but you especially – got carried away. And I will use an expression that said a constitutionalist who is not a Catalan and who is not an independentist: that day the Constitutional Court gave a visit. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.266.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the Government's efforts to preserve the Squadron Cos de Mossos from political controversy and to present it in international security agencies]] [[317-00185/11]] Dotzena questions, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.267.0	Thank you; thank you, President. President, given the tension we have experienced in this matter and which is still present in many questions, in many debates, the question I would like to ask is whether we are in time, if you think we are in time, to leave certain aspects, certain things to the margin of political controversy, as is the case with the security of Catalonia, in which, therefore, we have seen these last weeks the relevancy that you have for the life of our citizenry. It is true that we are entering into a few weeks of high political turn, and that all the debates will be politicized, and it will be very difficult to preserve a thing like the one in Mossos d'Esquadra of the political controversy that will be passed on to all Catalan society. But let's think, and I think we share this idea, that it would be irresponsible for everyone– for everyone– to use the police as a triggering weapon for party purposes. We have experienced times when the clocks have somehow put us on time, which have made us see until what point our country is also an objective of the terrorists, and a few weeks that have put the Catalan police to the test; proof that it has passed – I think it is not our opinion, but an opinion recognised at international level – with note; with note from the point of view to appear as an operational, efficient and communicative police. And perhaps this image of the Squadron Mosses has made some think that discrediting them could affect the band in a political debate that we think needs to be resolved and formulated in political terms. And perhaps, as I say, contraryly, there has been no lack of visions that have sought to use the prestige of the Squadron Mosses perhaps to situate certain political theses. That's why I was asking him if you think we're in time to deactivate what could be a perverse dialectic; if we're in time to restitute the real priorities, which we think are the intelligence coordination of the police forces, which is to situate the Squad Mossos in the organizations that surround them in order to be able to perform their function. We think about the issue of Europol, which is an old demand for our political space many years ago. And we're not naive, president; we know that dancing must be two. But, we insist, what efforts do you count on to make your government, beyond the same Department of Interior as it does, to lengthen, somehow, to subsist the Mossos of political controversy and to situate them, to try to situate them, if not, by far, in those organizations that are close to them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.268.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.269.0	Yes, thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, you share your entire statement. In fact, I thank him for all of this, because I have no intention of doing it in what you ask for and with the intention that this government is also trying to pursue not only this tragedy that we have experienced – and which, by the way, I take advantage of to thank all parliamentary groups without the exception that they have made themselves available and that they have supported each other since the first moment – but long before. Fixed, you will remember, that this government, the former one too, had to compare more than once before situations that were being used to discredit the Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad's Squad. There were people who were in the mood to introduce him to a law enforcement officer. And maybe the people who were in the mood to present the Squad Mosso as the law enforcement officer didn't understand why this police officer who wasn't supposed to act so professionally had this performance at the height of the circumstances. It is true; security, among others, should not be part of the agendas of the party debate. Yes, there has to be a political debate about security, about security models, about how we articulate the modern, transparent, accountable police that makes their citizens feel secure. Security is a foundational pillar of the right state. And, therefore, as a fundamental pillar of the state of law, this Government, the former, and this especially, has fought – you are witnesses – because the Spanish State, which is with whom we must coordinate and we must agree for the struggle, let us say it, for threats and for the..., in other words, to share as much information as possible in the face of threats we share, in the first place we must open the doors in those coordination spaces in Madrid where the Mossos are not born because they are not members, and sometimes not alone as guests, and because they are allowed to be present there in other substate polices already present, as well as in Europol, for information purposes. This was part of the Security Board's agreements. And we gave ourselves a time..., with a mixed committee, with a work agenda that must begin to win, through which there is not only representation of the Mossos to Europol, but there is adequate funding, that there is payment of the arrears that are already beginning despite a few hundred million euros, that is withdrawn the prohibition to summon the five hundred square places and that effectively we have the material necessary to be able to carry out our responsibility. We'll find each other here. I thank him for his proposal, for his reflection, I think he's very cautious. And in any case, this government will count, I know I can count on its group to be able to shield and preserve security, security policy, outside political speculation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.270.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the creation of an expert committee to prevent and combat terrorism]] [[317-00183/11]] Thirteen questions to the President of the Generalitat on the political situation for the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mr. Miquel Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.271.0	Thank you, Mrs. Forcadell. And, believe me, I didn't hook up with my friend Lluís Rabell, but my question is also about this. Mr President, if there is a concern that we should all be united with a common effort, it is the concern for security. And I wanted to take a step further than Lluís Rabell did, in the sense of making a concrete proposal to put it at his disposal. Do you think that it would be possible, necessary, for you to convene us to the chairmen of the parliamentary groups and the Councillor of the Interior in order to hold a meeting on these questions? And I would like to make a suggestion as to what one of the conclusions of this meeting could be, if you consider it, that it is the creation of a committee of experts that can work with full independence and discretion to assess the combination of mechanisms that we have at our disposal in the Government of Catalonia and the Catalan administrations to prevent and combat terrorism. We believe that this mechanism would not, in any case, undermine the Government of parliamentary control, that it is logical to have other paths, but it could give a gesture, a signal to the Catalan citizen that there are fears that we want to place on top of the political debate, that there are fears that we want to work together, and, despite the fact that the political climate sometimes does not accompany or favour it, make this a real country issue, and that with the leadership of the President of the Generality we can, among others, contribute to improving conditions for fighting and preventing terrorism in our country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.272.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.273.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, I appreciate your proposal, I think it's on the right track, I think that's what it's all about. We are looking forward internally, through experts who usually advise the Government and the Department of Interior, to the question of security; but I believe that their proposal is timely. I believe that the idea of moving forward in what we could say to a national security pact, which you have with different actors, is good, because a country that shares the security strategy, which makes a political debate, but in the noblest sense of the term, on a foundational pillar of the state of law such as security, I believe that this also strengthens democracy. And I think that as more participated and more open it can be this debate with the leaders of parliamentary groups, I think it's positive. Therefore, I take the word from him, I thank him for the invitation, and in the very weeks, in the measure of our possibilities, and in agreement with the Councillor d'Interior, we would contact each other to make the proposal... – I see that time does not circulate... – because the parliamentary groups, with the Government, and, if necessary, later, evolving it. [[the president says: "not the mark]] With the right experts, we can first have a map of the situation: where we are, where we come from, where we are at these times, what conclusions we have from all sides and where it seems to us that in a shared way we can lay, let us say, the foundations of our security policy. Just one point: this Parliament has a parliamentary committee that is already dealing with security policy, and therefore we should be able not to do the jobs that we would like to do in the Parliament of Catalonia and try to be much more, let us say, executed or much more complementary to country policy in terms of security, than, perhaps, the debate – law – that every political sensitivities can relate to a question as delicate as this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.274.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about his opinion on campaigns against politicians and journalists not like the Government]] [[317-00182/11]] Fourteen questions the President of the Generality, on the political situation. Formulated for Mr. Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.275.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in recent weeks we have seen things like campaigns by your government partners that encourage you to point out certain politicians; we are seeing how entities that have gone with you on your own electoral list encourage you to point out journalists who are not related, or members of your own government and your own parliamentary group who call, textually, ‘to take the street if they cannot carry out their illegal plans on 1 October. My question is: as President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, what do you think of all this?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.276.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.277.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, I understand that your question does not form part of the control activity of the Government of the Generality, because the Government of the Generality neither assigns it, threatens, nor organizes citizen mobilizations outside the Government. And, therefore, you understand that I have to ask for my personal opinion – you have to ask for my personal opinion. If you ask for them, let's say, partners that you can have a parliamentary group or for citizen entities that sometimes accompany parliamentary groups, you have some that accompany you very narrowly and of which you would also need to know some of their internal realities; but I will never ask you for that. You ask me, like the President of the Government, what I think, I understand that as a personal opinion, there are entities that are manifesting, that organize activities... Miri, taking into account that in some of these events, especially that of the Diada, and in the nearby Diada, that I hope it is massive, I have taken part, you have to understand that in some of these mobilizations, like the city of Catalonia, I feel, tell us, how to be there. Now, you're telling me, is it when I'm assigned a political leader? So, I don't like it. Because I've been checked many times. And if you look at the doors of some diaries you will see how they view us in a very ignominious and innoble way. And as in some Twitter profiles, they don't just point to us with insults, but with days and balls. And as all this happens, I don't like it. I, when it happens to someone else who doesn't think like me, I don't like it either. And, therefore, whenever there is doubt, do not worry, we will be on the side of whom you are threatening – if it is you, it is you, or if it is a collectible, it is a collectible – and this government on this has a single attitude and a single grasp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.278.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.279.0	Thank you, Madam President. Look, we haven't introduced ourselves to an electoral list with any entity, and if you have more information than I do, then you tell me. I ask you not to frivolize with the questions I am asking you. I'm not talking to you about a threat on Twitter that we've all received. I'm asking you about what your government partners, your government partners, members of the government – which I suppose you will also have to explain – and about entities that have gone with you. I say this because there are many Catalans who are concerned; they are concerned about the increase in social tension in Catalonia. Why? Because what you are proposing is not only that it is illegal – that we have already seen it this morning and have seen it all over the world, that you do what you want – it is not only because you do not have a majority, it is not only because you do not have international support, but because what you intend to do violates the rights of Catalans, the rights of Catalans represented in this Parliament and outside this Parliament. For example, you intend, for that supposed October 1st, to take the personal data of Catalans illegally, that is, to make an illegal use, without legal protection, of our addresses and our DNIs, and also with concealment of where that census is. You are also trying to force citizens and officials to wet themselves publicly and to be pointed out. I mean, no, it's not mandatory to participate, but citizens who receive a letter at home will have to tell the Administration that they don't want to participate in their illegalities; I guess then you'll make a good list. Moreover, they are disrespecting those who are not going to participate in their illegalities, saying that if we are subjects and I don't know how many things. Mr Puigdemont, you are having absolutely irresponsible statements and actions. Besides, they're saying that making a coup... or preventing an illegal referendum is a coup d'état. Well, in 2014, when I was President Mas, the Mossos d'Esquadra withdrew ballot boxes from a multi-party referendum. I guess you don't mean that the Mossos made a coup d'état or that the entity that asked for it did. I ask you one thing, Mr Puigdemont: instability, citizen confrontation and the taking of the street is only the stage of the CUP. You have to think of 7_million_and_average Catalans. And I'm telling you... I know you have little time left as president, but you're about to make the biggest and most serious democratic mistake in Catalonia's democratic history. And of all that happens, Mr. Puigdemont, all the responsibilities for that mistake, you will be the first to be responsible. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.280.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.281.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, if you want to see what a threat is, rewind the press wheel of the Vice President of the Spanish Government, and his ally, who just made a few hours ago. That was a threat and an insult to all the Catalans that we have as much right as those who don't want to participate - to want to decide our future. And insulting all the Catalans, those who legitimately represent a majority of Parliamentarians, those who represent an absolutely legitimate aspiration and which Spanish, European, and international laws believe is illegal to do, which is that the citizens decide our future..., if you want to see what a threat rule is, wander and look at their parliamentary partners in Madrid and you will understand something. In the hands of this political culture which you defend, political pacts such as that of the State have been carried out, political leaders have been disqualified for encouraging participation, quarrels have been filed against the President and the Bureau of Parliament and this Government has been threatened to disable it. Who do you think the threat camp belongs to? This government, of course, does not practice the threat, this government practices democracy. And against the threat, against the « threat of racism that represents its rule, we, democracy. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.282.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the measures of the Government why the right to decide whether to follow the Catalans and not the Government of the State]] [[317-00187/11]] Fifteen questions to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.283.0	Thank you, President. President, this morning, we actually witnessed an exercise in surrealism and parallel reality. There was a collusion of parliamentary groups that were talking to us about guarantees and about rights violations, when all these months, and these two years later, what they have done is to prevent us from discussing the right to decide, to file complaints, to file appeals with the Constitutional Court to avoid regulatory reforms, and they were talking now about rights violations. Obviously, you have to hold a lot of bars to say all that. All this was a smokescreen, and what's missing is actually courage to defend the no, you don't have courage to defend the no, and that's what we saw this morning. The other thing that happens is that they don't get the reality, the reality that we've had respect for the Government of the Spanish State. Yesterday we also witnessed a new notification of a state organ, which is the Court of Auditors, an organ that has practiced nepotism repeatedly and continuously, an organ with an absolutely politicized composition, an organ that has made a summary judgment, an organ that has no guarantee, an organ that is judging something already judged; this organ expanded the responsibilities for the organization of 9 November. And this week, here in the Parliament of Catalonia, we will also see the so-called 'Operation Catalunya'. When it comes to the conclusion« Nature of the operation of the Catalonia operation, it is said: « The Catalonia operation is a conspiracy to try to stop the political dissent in Catalonia, and particularly the independence movement, conspiracy that ended at least during the years of Jorge Fernández Díaz and which is attributed to the whole government of the PP. This operation has authorized judges, prosecutors, journalists, police officers, media outlets, to go against the process here in Catalonia. Moreover, we have two general cases opened by the prosecution: one against the government and the other against this Parliament. This is the reality we have, not what you tried this morning. And all this is precisely – precisely – because they cannot vote. We, President, have a citizen-based movement, which is peaceful, which is in place and which they simply claim is to be able to vote, to decide the future of Catalonia. In the face of this attempt to commit this kindness also to which we do not want it, what is the capture of the president and the government of Catalonia because we follow the Catalans who decide our future and not the government of the PP without voting? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.284.0	Thank you, Mr. Corominas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.285.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Corominas, the warranties are absolute. The guarantee that the citizens of Catalonia who legitimately want to vote that not independence is given to them by the Government of the Spanish State, not by the Constitutional Court, not by the Court of Auditors either, nor by the parliamentary groups which oppose such a debate. The guarantee because that city of Catalonia that legitimately wants to defend the relevance to Spain gives it to this government by putting the ballot box on October 1. First guarantee. Second guarantee: the main guarantee in democracy, I said earlier, it is not the procedures, it is not the public servants, it is not the procedures, it is the procedures, it is not the public servants, it is the procedures. The phonetic guarantee for which this whole system has heard is because the citizens can tell it theirs. And it's not a crime, it's not just because it's been decriminalized for a long time, in 2005, the law's reform, let's just say, of criminal prosecution... It's not a crime, it's clearly the law, I repeat. Calling a reference – the law, the Spanish law – is not a crime; let's see if it is understood that this government is not perpetrating any crime. So what is the attitude that this government will face at this moment of decision? In view of the fact that in front of the only alternative that people can sort differently from independence will be to stay in a state where we have already seen exactly what was the capture of their leaders, a few hours ago, in the mouth of the Vice President; how is the use of the State's keyposts to achieve party ends; how is there no separation of powers; how is it a partisan of the institutions... If this is the alternative to the construction of a new, modern state, done from low to high and not from high to low, where you can sort not only your head of state, but can participate actively in the drafting of the constitution, it seems that the act that is heard in this historical moment is that at the very least it is firm, the very least, the most serious thing. The hope of making a country among all, where everyone says his own; the hope of a country that does not run away from you, that does not make it a very well situated and well communicated political elite, that does not have a pressure from the army, that does not need there to be a constitutional article that says that the guarantee of democracy of that state will be the army, but a country made to measure and to the liking of the people who want to live there. And this will never – never – be a crime. Therefore, despite provocations, despite, in short, all kinds of obstacles that will oppose us, despite licit discrepancies, sereneness, firmness and, above all, much hope. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.286.0	Thank you, President. [[Change of agenda (continuation)]] As you know, we have reached a unanimous agreement to extend the deadline until the control session is over. Now we have seen that there have been presentations to the whole, when the full agreement was that we would only present presentations to the joint. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If it looks like them – if it looks like them – we'll let them – we'll let them – give them more minutes so they can convert these items to totality into deletion items from the law or suppression items from the joint. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'll leave them there if they want to. Because, if not, as we have voted in full agreement, the papers to the totality we have said that they do not accept, that they only make papers to the joint. Okay? [[Pause.]] So let's leave that term, these two minutes, and we, anyway, from here to these two minutes we'll start the debate and the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Sir..., Mr Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.287.0	First of all, let me explain to you who these items are. And, second, if there is any type of agreement, in relation to the requests for reconsideration that we have put forward by the parliamentary groups, on the part of the Bureau, because we have no awareness of any type of agreement on this. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Reasoned resolution, actually.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.288.0	The review agreements that all the parliamentary groups have called for this morning have reached... the Bureau's agreement; so there are, and now they're passing, they're making them and we'll get them there, huh? But Mesa's deal is already there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.289.0	Yes, but we cannot continue if we have not yet been notified. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Of course, it's just... [[Widow's remorse.]] Anyway, I think this is also from Sesame Quarter, or so it's not... [[Widow's remorse.]] Before, after, right? It's just that in the end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.290.0	Mr Fernández, the reviews are resolved – the reviews are resolved. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.291.0	But they don't know! I don't know what you've solved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.292.0	We'll get them there – we'll get them there. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.293.0	But I insist again: we cannot continue processing if we have not been notified. Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.294.0	Yes, yes... the reconsideration is resolved and we do not consider the reconsideration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.295.0	Could you notify us, please?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.296.0	And, therefore, the exact content is now being made and will be distributed in due course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.297.0	I remind you, President, that the resolution must be motivated and it must be written.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.298.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.299.0	So, before we continue processing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.300.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.301.0	...please, they'll get us there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.302.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández, you're motivated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.303.0	It's the fourth time you've told me yes this morning and there's no way, then. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.304.0	Yes, yes..., you're motivated to Bureau, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.305.0	In the end...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.306.0	We have made a reasoned resolution to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.307.0	I'll think hard.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.308.0	We'll get them there, yeah. [[You see "When?]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.309.0	When? We can't go on, it's just... president, he's asked the Bureau, we're going to ask him again here. So, please, ask him to notify us before we continue with the whole process. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.310.0	The review is resolved, I repeat, has been motivated; it has been done to Mesa, which is to the organ to be done; you want a copy, we will get it there. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.311.0	On a point of order, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.312.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.313.0	Let's see, we have submitted some writings..., some amendments to the whole and now we are told that – by whom, by the Bureau or by the plenary? – are not admitted. I just don't understand who's saying what, now. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm sure whoever's looking at us doesn't understand anything either, and citizens don't understand anything. Did Mrs. Rovira say so? Has she said what is admitted and what is not? Who said so?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.314.0	The House has said that it voted, Mr Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.315.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.316.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.317.0	I have tabled some amendments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.318.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.319.0	My amendments have been evaluated. Who has valued them? Has the Bureau considered them?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.320.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.321.0	Who valued them, then? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.322.0	Mr Carrizosa, the House voted this morning, in accordance with Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, that only statements are admitted to the joint. As there are some parliamentary groups that have submitted papers to the totality, we have asked them..., we are saying now – we are saying, as the president I am saying –, I am asking them to convert them into suppression papers, so that they can be admitted and can be dealt with in the plenary, because, if not, only the papers will be dealt with in the joint, not in the totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.323.0	But, with all due respect, Madam President, you are now inventing...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.324.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.325.0	...a faculty...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.326.0	It's a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.327.0	...to decide...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.328.0	It's a vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.329.0	...what kind of amendment...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.330.0	He voted, he voted in the House.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.331.0	You're making it up! This...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.332.0	No, no, You voted, Mr Carrizosa – you voted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.333.0	No, no, But my amendment was not voted on, no one voted on my amendment. [[Widow's remorse.]] No one voted for it. You've seen her, you've seen her...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.334.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.335.0	...but the one who has to see it is the Bureau. And the Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.336.0	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. [[Funnel veils]] Admittedly, it's possible to do an act... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.337.0	Well, then, if the Bureau..., if the president does it in place of the Bureau, to that agreement of the president, which must be notified to us, as was said before, I will have the possibility to ask for a reconsideration...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.338.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.339.0	...and that you're grounded in law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.340.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.341.0	Well, then, we ask, I'll let you know. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.342.0	Okay. You can ask for reconsideration of the admission to court, obviously you can. I can ask for reconsideration because you asked..., you submitted a statement to the totality, and I assume you don't want to convert it into suppression statements.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.343.0	He's already introduced. We...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.344.0	No, I know he's introduced. But I give you the possibility that you as a totality cannot be accepted, because the Ple has not voted, I give you the possibility if you want to convert the totality to the totality of suppression. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.345.0	And I thank him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.346.0	Tell me you don't, then, okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.347.0	And I thank him for his...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.348.0	You told me you didn't.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.349.0	...good anti-regulatory arrangement...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.350.0	Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.351.0	...and improvised, but I would like Parliament to function as a parliament... and not as...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.352.0	Yes, it works, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.353.0	... a table of ex gratia management, in which we are all at the dawn of what is decided at every moment and we understand nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.354.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.355.0	That's basically what... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.356.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you're telling me, no, I don't want to convert my item, or the item of my totality group, I don't want to convert it into a suppression item.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.357.0	I don't say that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.358.0	Okay. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.359.0	I'm telling you, I've introduced a message and I want to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.360.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.361.0	...that the Bureau is pronouncing, and if I admit it or not I admit it, this thought.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.362.0	No, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.363.0	And that's it. And I... decide...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.364.0	The Bureau has made an act of presidency and its statement cannot be accepted because it is a statement to the whole and the House has voted that only statements are admitted to the joint. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.365.0	If you notify us, Madam President, we will ask for reconsideration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.366.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.367.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.368.0	You have all the right to ask for it, Mr. Carrizosa. [[remorse of the voice]] He's got the whole right. We'll make Table and we'll make Table. [[Alejandro Fernández Álvarez asks to speak.]] Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.369.0	What kind of gift that you are unable to lie in this room and say that the motivated resolution has already been adopted and will pass it on to us, could you read it to us right now? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.370.0	No, no, [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.371.0	Oh! [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.372.0	We don't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.373.0	But if you say you've already been adopted...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.374.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.375.0	...you could read it to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.376.0	He's been adopted. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.377.0	I thought you were incapable of...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.378.0	We don't have the record, sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.379.0	...that he was incapable of lying here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.380.0	Mr. Fernández, we don't have the record. And here, in the Ple, it's not read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.381.0	Not with what? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.382.0	Reconsiderations, no. The reviews are made by the Mesa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.383.0	Article 86.2...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.384.0	...and is presented to the Bureau. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.385.0	Article 86.2 I can ask you on behalf of my parliamentary group to read any agreement...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.386.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.387.0	... including the Bureau's. I repeat: you just said a few minutes ago...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.388.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.389.0	...that this motivated resolution had already been adopted, that they would get us there. I'm saying, what kind of gift is it that you're incapable of lying, why don't you read it? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.390.0	Mr Fernández, the Minutes have been drawn up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.391.0	No, that's not what... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Oh, isn't it? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.392.0	And the record... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Fernández... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The minutes are being drafted, and the resolution... and the resolution has been motivated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.393.0	Resolution is not the record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.394.0	He read it, and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.395.0	The resolution is not the record, you must agree with me. That's where we both come in. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.396.0	Yeah. It's happening...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.397.0	Resolution is not the record.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.398.0	Mr. Fernández, I told him it was happening.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.399.0	You said the resolution was drafted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.400.0	Yeah, yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]] And let's go... it's done - it's done. The record is not done, the reconsideration must be included in the record. Okay? [[Pause.]] Anyway, I already told her we'd get her there – we'd get her there. We'll suspend the Ple, we'll go find her.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.401.0	I'm asking you..., I'm asking you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.402.0	...and I'll get her there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.403.0	I ask you, precisely, to speed up the debate, since you have said that this motivated resolution has been adopted, but that it would send it to us, that you read it and we will be satisfied; if you read it, you will not need to send it to us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.404.0	It's just something...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.405.0	But you said you were adopted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.406.0	Mr. Fernández, you don't make me repeat it any more, please. It's the Bureau that's solved, and it's the Bureau, there's a record and they'll get it. Please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.407.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.408.0	Mrs. Rovira... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.409.0	President, I also have the floor to speak as a parliamentary group, since an agreement was reached here by an absolute majority in this Parliament, which I think was very clear because it was explained how fifteen times, clearly, in what point of time we were in the process. We were in the debate and final vote on the law. And it was explained that the items that could be presented were items in the joint. It's obvious that... I certainly think you're not right, Mr. Carrizosa, the citizens see perfectly what's going on. They see it perfectly. [[Widow's remorse.]] They see it perfectly! Because that's what you've done before it never happened. Never in a final vote on the joint did you make a mistake and submit a statement to the totality. His parliamentary group, so rigorous and so professional, had never been wrong. And curiously today, that it remains very clear that we are in the debate and final vote of a law, that it remains very clear the type... – because we see the citizens –, the type of issues that are to be presented which are to be presented, which are to the articulate, which are the partials, which are the specifics, you went and how they were never wrong, never, ever, ever, in all the history of the Group of Citizens in the Parliament of Catalonia, but went and today they are mistaken and present the wrong issue, which is the other, that of the debate to the whole. You all see why they do it, that's what they do. It is again the same filibusterism as ever not to pass to the parliamentary debate, to the political debate. And what we're complaining about is that, look, if the president or the Bureau decides to give them two minutes to change the puzzle so that they can come out here and do the debate, we're totally in favor, and that's also very strange, so to speak. But we're in favour. Okay. Two minutes, changing the message, presenting the deletion to all the text that has the same effects that it conveys to the totality, but that is well written for the point of transit that we are and come out and defend and make the debate. We're doing the political debate. Go on, what do you think about discussing politically whether or not we have a right to vote? Home! [[Greetings. Santi Rodríguez i Serra i Carlos Carrizosa Torres ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.410.0	First I had asked for the word Mr. Rodriguez, Mr. Carrizosa. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Then I'll give it to you, for allusions, I suppose, but now I had been asked by Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.411.0	Thank you, Madam President. Precisely, as we are already hoping to finish this debate and try to make this debate as soon as possible, we would like to see it done as well as possible. We, so far, feel that you are talking about some issues, but we do not know which issues you are referring to, because you have not been qualified, have not been published and, therefore, this parliamentary group is unaware of what you are talking about right now. Therefore, we believe that it is essential that, before we talk about something that we don't know about, because, in principle, it doesn't exist, these items are published and whether they have qualified or not.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.412.0	They're handing out the papers, huh? They're leaving. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Fernández, it's over now, as you'll understand, we can't split them before it's over now. It seems to me that everyone can hear it, I think. They're split. [[Someone said, "Yes, yes.]] We've done an act of presidency to admit them to transit. I have proposed to convert the items to total items into items in the joint. It seems that they do not want to do so, and Mr. Carrizosa has requested reconsideration of this presidential act of admission to the papers. So now we're going to be the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to do this review and then we're going to start the debate on the law. Okay? [[Pause. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Carrizosa, you're right, I had to give you three minutes for allusions. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.413.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Rovira, what has never happened in this Parliament is that the groups should be deprived of the possibility of submitting an amendment in its entirety. [[Greetings.]] What had never happened – what had never happened – in this Parliament was that we had to vote on a law that had been published clandestinely by four members of the Bureau. It's never happened before, either. [[Greetings.]] What has never happened, either, Mrs Rovira, is that the Bureau of Parliament avoids meeting to rule on parliamentary initiatives. Nor had that ever happened, Mrs. Rovira. Look, we fear we have none, fortunately. Others are afraid, others keep for months in a drawer a law so that no one knows it, and then, when they process it [[applause]] They do so by destroying the rights of the other half of the chamber; they unanimously complain that you are violating the rights of the entire chamber. There is no fear, Mrs Rovira, in this part, of genuine democratic elections. And you seem to be afraid of that. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.414.0	I call on the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen to reconsider the issue. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Carrizosa... Mr. Carrizosa, I am told by the secretary general that they have not submitted the reconsideration. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] They suspect the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.415.0	It's part of the session. [[Self-Determination Reference Law Proposal]] [[202-00065/11]] We will proceed to the debate and final vote on the Self-Determination Reference Law Proposal. To inform them that all parliamentary groups have submitted papers. We shall proceed to the debate on the points of the joint. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall proceed with the intervention of the parliamentary groups and the non-attached Member who have submitted papers. In the first place, the non-attached deputy, Mr Germà Gordó, has the word to defend the presented emena. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] A couple of... a minute, Mr. Gordó. Mr Carrizosa, let us proceed to the debate; why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.416.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.417.0	Yeah, say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.418.0	Yeah. A meeting of spokespersons was held a moment ago to analyse, on the one hand, a review paper on one of the amendments, which we do not know how the Bureau resolution was left, and then also a meeting of spokespersons was held in which the Bureau was asked to deal with the papers that we submitted in request for an opinion to the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, which, as is well known, the Council of Guarantees Statutàries, in an act of militant democracy that must be thanked to them, has run to tell Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.419.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.420.0	...that the rights of Members pass because of the requests for opinions that we have asked for, this has been put to the Bureau...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.421.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.422.0	...and now...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.423.0	...that was talked to the Bureau and talked to the Board of Spokespersons.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.424.0	Yeah. And what I'm asking you is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.425.0	And yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.426.0	...the resolution that has fallen on the Bureau, about the admission to procedure, or not, of our application papers to the Guarantee Board, as the Guarantee Board itself is not protecting us by saying that we have the right to ask for them. So I ask the Bureau whether or not Parliament is going to proceed with the writings before the Board of Statutory Guarantees as the Board of Statutory Guarantees itself is asking for this to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.427.0	Sir..., Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.428.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.429.0	...there was a vote in the plenary that exempted from this process. And, therefore, the Parliament is the supreme organ; it has been discussed at the Bureau, and therefore it has been decided that the Parliament, the plenary of the Parliament, has already exempted from this procedure.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.430.0	Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.431.0	And for what he does to... And that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.432.0	I therefore believe that what is appropriate is that the Bureau should notify us in writing of this resolution so that, in its case, we can assert the right that we are being assisted and that the Guarantee Board recognizes us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.433.0	Mr. Carrizosa, we'll do it, we'll get him there. Now we're going to proceed to the debate, and Mr. Gordo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.434.0	But it's just... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.435.0	No, it's the table... it's settled – it's settled. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Already... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa..., Mr. Carrizosa, the Table has already resolved... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr Carrizosa, let's proceed to the debate... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr Carrizosa, let us proceed to the debate, because the Bureau has already resolved. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, the Ple; the Ple... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I have already said this: the House voted on the exemption from this procedure; the House voted on the exemption from this procedure. Therefore, they do not reply to the Bureau, they reply to the plenary, and the plenary has already voted. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Carrizosa, there you are. Thank you. We'll proceed to the debate. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.436.0	Call for compliance with the Rules and for reading a document that I consider relevant to the issues we are discussing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.437.0	It's the president's power. And we'll proceed to the debate. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.438.0	On the left, on the left, on the left.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.439.0	I already observe it, the Rules. We are observing it, the Rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.440.0	I understand it's the president's power to deny reading...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.441.0	It's the president's power to decide if he's reading or if he's not reading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.442.0	Yes, yes, indeed. I understand that it is the President's right to deny, in effect, the reading of a document that I consider not to be appropriate, but it is that I have not yet explained who the document is, have I not? [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.443.0	It just seems like he said it before. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.444.0	Therefore, in the first term, for what it is to see with the reading that I ask for according to Article 86.2, it is necessary to read only the final part, which was entitled "Acord, of the writing..., therefore, two parágrafes, of the writing that we have received from the Council of Guarantees Statutes to the parliamentary groups and to the Bureau of the Parliament. And, according to the term, for the call to the observance of the Rules, because you insist on explaining to us that a vote of the Plenary of the Parliament has exempted from the request for an opinion to the Council of Guarantees Status in the processing of this Proposal of the Law of the Referendum. But what happens is that this request for advice from the State Guarantee Board is not just set up as a regulatory process but is also a right of legal configuration of Members and Groups of this Parliament. And I insist that in democracy the rule of the majority is very important, it is nothing if it does not follow with the guarantee of the rights of minorities, and that, therefore, this is channelled through the guarantees of the procedure, also of the procedure of elaboration of laws. And lastly, remember that the principle of submission of public powers to the rule of law and, therefore, also, for example, to the law of the State Guarantee Board or to the State, is also to the legislative power and to the institutions that govern it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.445.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.446.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.447.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.448.0	In fact, there are two of them; one has already been repeated, but we want to reiterate it again because we consider it important. There have been some requests for reconsideration that have been dealt with at the doorman's meeting and at the table that must be resolved but that this motivated resolution has not yet been communicated, neither this morning nor the one we have just had, to the parliamentary groups. Therefore, we formally do not have the knowledge of the reasons that the Bureau has argued for the negative resolution of these requests for reconsideration. But I wanted to make a few observations... if you listen to me, which is related to the order of the debate. In accordance with Article 114(2), debates on legislative initiatives should begin with the presentation by the proposing groups and, in any case, with the submission of the papers, but not starting from the papers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.449.0	Let's start with the presentation of the papers because the proposing groups have given up making the presentation, and anyway... [[Widow's remorse.]] The proposing groups have given up doing the... that is, the two groups that have interested, that are Together for the Yes and the UPC, have given up making the presentation. And, therefore, let's get to the discussion of the papers. And in the first place, Mr. Gordó will speak, who already has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.450.0	Thank you, President. President, advisors, advisors, deputies, deputies, very briefly, because if he has tied me up for a minute – I expect a little more generosity – I would like to say a few things and very telegraphically. In the first place, he asked to forgive the citizenry for the image that we have projected during the day of today; surely we, like Members and Members, cannot be happy with the image that we have projected to the citizenry of Catalonia. Second of all, we shouldn't be happy to get where we are the way we got there. In fact, the same spokesman for Junts for the Yes, Mrs. Marta Rovira, said that we would certainly have wanted to come up with this proposal in another way, with some other "times" and with some other forms, and certainly with some other majorities. I am absolutely convinced that if we had done our job better from a point of view of the dialog, we would all have gotten better at today's situation, at least today's debate. It has not been possible, all must be few or very co-responsible. Third place, and now directly, the papers I've submitted. I've made a..., the first item that I simply ask for is the most dialogical. In fact, it was said that every effort had been made; I say: 'Home, we replace it with'very much effort' – 'all I suppose we must not be humble,'very much effort', and not leave the side of the dialog closed; in fact, it was a point and end, and therefore I ask: 'However, the Catalan government and institutions will continue to dialogue with the State in order to try to reach an agreement. Secondly, asking a more inclusive, more open question, asked to change it, and, therefore, in Article 4.2, asking that it be: "Do you want Catalonia to be an independent state in the European Union? Among other things because the form of state always corresponds to an assembly constitute. That shouldn't be in a question. There may be a willingness to have a state; the way this state has to have it must be decided by citizens and citizens through a process [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] But also through his representatives. Finally...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.451.0	Mr. Gordó, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.452.0	Madam President, I'm done. Thank you, for your generosity. And finally, in the same way that at this stage until October 1st they will have the right from a point of view, so, from the point of view of the parliamentary groups, which also this Member does not attach the right to hold. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.453.0	Thank you, Mr. Gordo. Next is the representative of the Parliamentary Group of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.454.0	To announce that before you started Mr. Gordó already confirmed to me that the writing of reconsideration of the resolution was presented and, therefore, would have to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.455.0	The resolution of what?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.456.0	The resolution... [[The timer laughs.]] From the resolution of the Bureau which agrees that it will not give delay to the writings requesting an opinion from the Board of Statutory Guarantees. You should have called a table...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.457.0	It's that there hasn't been a table deal, Mr. Carrizosa. It is precisely the Bureau that we have said that we are not close to the Bureau, because we had already voted in plenary. That is to say, what we have said is: "There...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.458.0	So, this...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.459.0	«... near the Table...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.460.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.461.0	«... because it had been voted by the plenary. Therefore, it is not a process and there is no reconsideration of this, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.462.0	This agreement is under review...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.463.0	There's no reconsideration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.464.0	And I'm just saying, it's not to be delayed, that's all. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] to be able to go to the Constitutional Court, when toqui, for violation of the fundamental rights...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.465.0	No, Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.466.0	...of the deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.467.0	Mr. Carrizosa, there is no..., there is no reconsideration, because this has not been..., this simply the Bureau has said that they do not correspond to it, simply. I have the word Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.468.0	Yeah. Hey, nice late. I would ask the Bureau to make a single intervention; of the fifteen minutes we will accumulate what you have to see with the presentation of the papers, with the presentation on the law, and even a point of order that we have not previously expressed, but that we want to start right here. We must regret the attitude of certain Members and spokespersons in today's plenary. Don't pretend to open up controversy, don't pretend to open up a reply: we just want to record the lack of respect that today is manifested to the President of Parliament. Above all, on the part of those who attach the prerogatives of the Members, from whom they so strictly defend the compliment of the Rules of Procedure. Secondly, we believe that it remains to manifest that the unwillingness to approach a fundraiser is in the form of a debate. I think you're tired of confusion in the way of regulation and parliamentary. I don't know if you're even more willing to discredit this Parliament; you probably wouldn't have behaved in the same way in a state representation chamber. Thirdly, this is not a question of legality for us today, it is a question of legitimacy, and we have the feeling that, despite the fact that there is an extreme pulp and generosity demonstrated by the Bureau and by the President, you will not have enough. You're willing and I'm complicit in your suspicion. Therefore, the question, we insist, is not legality; it is legitimate. In the last place, we also want to explain that we have not repeatedly intervened in matters of order, we believe, for a question of responsibility, which contrasts, grows, insists, with the attitude that other Members and spokespersons probably have had. Lucky we were ourselves, the anti-systems! In any case, I've made myself clear today more than ever before than we are in the world. [[Greetings.]] I mean, because time is running, and it's important for us this intervention, and the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, but also this morning company company of the municipalist group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, we say this week is special for us, it's especially important. And we did, moreover, remember what our objectives were from this legislature. We recognize, in fact, that, in terms of employment and combating social emergencies, and also in terms of the activation of the process, we probably have not managed to articulate the major needs that we need in response to existing requests; some badly too urgent requests, to which we believe this Parliament has not been able to pay much attention, and we regret it. But we do say and say that we can celebrate bringing today to debate and approving this Law of Referendum. The time we have to intervene does not allow us to deal with such heat, we understand, as we have come here, but there is a couple of essential questions to put on the table. First of all, the goal of the independenceist left has been, and will continue to feel the exercise of the right to self-determination in the Catalan Countries. A right, that of the self-determination of the peoples, that contrasts the power of the peoples, the popular power, with the power of the states. And more so in the case of some states..., inserted into a club of states like the European Union, which has demonstrated so far what little interest it has in the right collections. The Catalan Countries are our mark, they are our political project, and therefore we assume that the reference we would have liked to promote is the reference to the Catalan Countries. But nothing will prevent us from continuing to work for national construction, which must be supported by the cartography of the 78th Regime, that rule which saw, as you know, forced separation and the impossibility of federating between territories, as also saw the impossibility of articulating social projects alternating with capitalism and patriarchy. This is our true and complete horizon: Catalan countries free of capitalism and patriarchy, with the rest of the world's free peoples. The next one has to see with the necessary recognition that we also have to make a lot of people. If it is possible that today we are debating and approving a law of reference, it is not for us: it is because there has been a large number of people who have made institutions have to give a democratic response to a democratic conflict with the Spanish State. We cannot remunerate all the struggles that we would like to recover, but we do want to make a special element of the people who have already fought against the 78th rule and who have been tortured and undertaken to do so, and also those people who promoted popular consultations for independence to their villains and their citizens. They are probably the most decisive recent predecessors to explain that today we demand and materialize the legal conditions for the possibility of a self-determination referendum, as a democratic instrument to resolve the plethora of the people of Catalonia for access to their political sovereignty. A record, therefore, today, special for the people of Arenys de Munt's consultation, for all those, until later in town and city, which allowed, we understand, that today we are presenting and approving this law. This story, in fact, which we begin to write as a political subject today, has its main role in the people: with it it starts all and with it will continue everything. The people, the popular determination, have gone forward. In fact, today's elected bodies, institutions, what we do is listen. And that's why we're proud. And that's why we think that everyone has to feel the responsibility that surrounds him, depending on the position that I hold. That said, and even if it is only a short time, let it also make some reference to the debates generated around the compliment of the Rules, the adequacy of the Statute of Autonomy, the violation of the incidents of execution of the Constitutional Court's judgment, a short reference to those who permanently appeal to the rights of Members, to the rights of minorities in Parliament – which, as a minority, the support of the judicial organs and of the State that you have is not bad; whereas many minorities would like to have the support that you have – to those who criticize unilaterality, to those who think that the reference of today is not what we need, because it is only for the sake of a party. Look – to all – the Constituent CUP - Creed has come here to make political, the Constituent CUP - Creed is an independent, socialist and feminist political party. And we want to do politics, which is not autonomous parliamentaryism. We know, moreover, that to do politics in the Spanish State itself, as in the Spanish Constitution, with its execution, with its judiciary, with its practical powers, is to say, all that forms part of the 78's rule, is impossible, because they are a limit, they are a wall, they are an impediment. They are an impediment to the recovery of sobrieties, all of them: the national, the food, the economic, the cultural, the residential; and we must also, therefore, go beyond the wall, the limit, the impedance. They're a wall to defend right collections. They're the same wall that existed when the women didn't have a right to stand and, fortunately, one day we overflowed that wall. The legal limits that existed when homosexuals were not allowed to marry, these were also overflowing one day. Impediment to decide about our divorce, one day he was also overwhelmed. These days – and there are many – are the days that last for years. As of today, let us begin to overflow a limit; a limit that was imposed by 78 people who did not represent us, by people who were political in a context of for and, some of them, who carried many dead to the scenes and many dead to their hands. What we can't hear is how you accept these limits, how you can feel comfortable with these limits. You know why? Because you don't just want to deny the right to self-determination; your refusal went much further. The State, the executive, the judiciary, the facsimile powers, the representation in this parliamentary chamber of the 78th rule, those who do not want social justice or an economic system that ends up with inequalities are the same ones who also want to deny us the right to self-determination; those who do not want the right bases of the franchise to be trolled are also those who do not want us to exercise the right to self-determination. For the power and those who subordinate themselves it is essential to deny the right to self-determination, because they know that it is a right that opens doors to many other rights and, above all, opens doors to the power to hold people. Although you repeat it and repeat it, this law is not a time of state, this law does not violate the right, this law does not drink of totalitarianism or of willful annihilation. Although you've repeated it a thousand times, it won't be right. Mr. Coscubala, the right to self-determination is not defense in theory. The right to self-determination is not to subordinate the will of a people to some major parliaments that are given in the State that constitutionally denies us the right to self-determination. The right to self-determination does not consist in transforming this State that denies us this right, nor does it expect it without changing laws where we do not, of course, have the capacity to modify them. We just don't reject the alliances with the low-income people who are just in favor of the right to self-determination in Catalonia. To the companies of Andalusia, to those of Galicia, to those of the Basque Country, to those of Aragó, to Castellà, to Asturias, to all the lands that legitimately and with us also want to build their own present of pau, justice and freedom, and find in the exercise of the right of self-determination in Catalonia a possibility because they are more in favor of this justice and freedom. The best way to contribute here, now and here, is to break the chain of 78, no longer for Catalonia, but for the rest of the people of the State as well; so precisely his companions and companions defended their foundation. Marcelino Camacho said that "the right to strike is achieved by strikes, that "the right to assemble, to gather; the right to associate, to associate; and all these attributes of freedom, it is only mass action that can end up imposing them. I did today, without waiting for the permission of the Rules or the Board of Statutory Guarantees. We did it today, because the only permission we can expect is from our people. So we understand the right to self-determination; not in theory, in practice. This, therefore, is not a legal debate. And even if you wanted to turn it into a legal debate, we would ask you to understand that the right is something that went much further than that which strictly regressed the Spanish Constitution. Allow us to view the right as a conflict resolution tool. Allow us to understand the right as a tool, as a tool to give solutions to needy, and not as a tool to help most people volunteer. He gave one of our references, a sardine who died eagerly for Italian fascism, that the only way to predict the future is to organize and make it happen to what you want. So today we are doing exactly this: building the tool that can make it possible for the future to follow what we want, or, better said, what people want; also the electorate of political parties that today claim to deny the right to debate and exercise the right to self-determination, to whom you are indirectly also denying the right to vote "yes or" cannot express yourself. It is a law instrument, but it contains all the necessary elements: the date, the question, the electoral union and the combination of the guarantee mechanisms. It is a law that for us it would have been good for us to have extended the right to suffer in the conjunction of the citizenry that they live in our home; it was not possible. But in any case, it is a law that means that Parliament is taking a very important step, because we are moving from autonomy to sovereignty. And it's not any step, nor is it any law. For us, in fact, it was one of the main commitments of the legislature. Let us reiterate that we may not have been on the rise at the time of other legal and political challenges that were also in this legislature. Because the situation of social emergence, poverty and injustice that suffer a good part of the popular classes of this town has not been resolved, for lack of courage of some, or surely for the shameful links that have some of you with interests on your part. In any case, the approval of this Law of Self-Determination, the Law of Referendum, opens the doors to many changes, we hope that to profound political, economic and social transformations; we open the door, in fact, to a process constitute. And, we insist, we consider fulfilling the main parliamentary mandate that we had in this legislature, a mandate that was indefatigable and that should give us a place, more than that, to a new mandate: the mandate that the ballot box gives on October 1. Now, Mr. Puigdemont and Mr. Junqueras, the responsibility is yours. You are at the head of a government you know, we know you have a Spanish state ahead of you that will oppose legal, political, repressive means, so as to prevent the polls from being held on October 1. It is in his hands that there are collegiates, that there are ballot boxes, that there are papers, that there are census marks; that, in short, we convert this reference into the binding reference that the country is waiting for. Before a prohibitive state, we can only owe obedience to people; and we know that we will need institutional and social disobedience to the prohibitions of judicial bodies. If you assume your responsibility, there is no doubt that the people will take over their vote on October 1. And it's that, while there are alarms and exceptions and the permanent threat of the Constitution, we are willing to go out on the street to defend our rights and prepare ourselves to win the referendum. And while the threats of the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Ciutadans last, we will talk about life. Let's look at the future with the conviction that, whatever comes out of the ballot box on October 1, the people of Catalonia, as they will one day do together with the Catalan countries and all unceasing humanity, we chose to self-determine ourselves, because we chose to take sides, because we chose to rule. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.469.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next is the words of Mr Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.470.0	Thank you, President. I also want my first words to be recognizable for the office of the Bureau of Parliament, not now, today, which has been very complex, for the office of the President, of the Carme Forcadell, of Joan Josep Nuet, of Ramona Barrufet, of Anna Simó and of Lluís Guinó. Because they've defended parliamentarianism one more time. [[remorse of the voice]] , have defended once more that it is here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, that it is possible to debate everything, that the Catalans follow the ones we decide, that they do not follow from outside those who decide. [[Greetings.]] And they did it – and they did it –, yes, with a few bits of entanglement from the very first moment, almost the rest of the parliamentary groups that we are not the promoters of this bill. And the evidence we've had now, on this Board of Spokesmen we've just done, that there have been two parliamentary groups that have said that if we passed the reference to November 1, with normal processing, they will come. Why don't they say that later, here? Why don't they support him? Why don't you defend it before the Constitution, before your references to the Spanish State? Why am I being dumped? [[Greetings.]] I have a lot of bad news to give them. [[the orator shows a full to the chamber]] : this is the law proposition of the Catalonia Self-Determination Referendum. And today we vote for it. After everything you've done, we'll vote for it today. [[Some applause.]] Our parliamentary group, as you all know, Together for the Yes, has presented itself to the 2015 elections with a clear aim: to drive politically a grassroots movement to achieve the independence of our country. We have worked on this law and the Law of Transition with two objectives: the Law of Referendum, to have a legal mark to be able to vote, and the Law of Transition, because those who vote yes, those who have the option of yes, we also want a mark for the Day, a mark for the Day 2 of October. The content of this law is simple to explain: we made a law to be able to vote. It is sad enough that we have to do this, but we have to do it, and then I will explain that it is not precisely because of our unwillingness that we have not been able to do it in any other way. The procedure has been as secure as possible. Before he referred to my carrier, Marta Rovira. We've tried to do it all the way because it's more guaranteed. The only way that we have left the State and the only way that you have left us, that today you have been guaranteeing for life, the only way has been this. And, therefore, we have passed it here through Parliament, this Parliament will approve it, which is what has the legitimacy to do it. Of the debate that has arisen around this law on legality and legitimacy, I would now like to refer specifically to what is being said about the preamble: in what we are trying to do to bring this law forward. We'll try, from the beginning, that this was a plea bargain. And we need to make this clear to the international community, and also to the people who listen from our home: we have tried everything to make a deal with the state in this process. We've exhausted all our lives because this was a process agreed with the Spanish State and do so according to the Spanish State. And it couldn't be. And it wasn't because it was banned, it was due to a lack of political will from the Spanish State. And today we also want to say again: the Spanish State has not had the political will that this process, this process of asking the Catalans who want their future to follow, was in an agreed way. In not being able to agree with the Spanish State the exercise of the rules of international law and the emperor of this international right is what we are going to seek, which we have demanded and which I will now explain. We have the will of the Catalans to exercise the principle of self-determination collected in the international right from the Charter of the United Nations, and we have done so, I repeat, in a democratic and peaceful manner. This process of self-determination is the answer that a good part of the Catalans give to a situation that we believe is unfair, and this answer is concretely voted on, exercising a right inherent to any nation. We're talking about human rights, people's rights and people's rights. We find that unilateral exercise is not prohibited in international law and is permissible with the sole limit of the use of force, illegitimate, and the heavy violation of international law standards, which is not the case. Therefore, exercising the right to decide in a democratic way that they have all the peoples and that is inherent in Catalonia as a nation is our goal. We are despots of a sovereign and want to exercise it peacefully. If we cannot do so in a negotiated way and have exhausted all the lives of the Spanish State after the loss, attacks on our competitions, systemic discrimination at fiscal, linguistic and cultural level, before the realization that we have never wanted to put relations on an equal footing with the Spanish State, we are exercising this way with the international right-holder. Before this finding and to put an end to this situation that we understand unjustly, we exercise, through this Law of the Referendum, our right to self-determination to achieve the full national recognition and the level of self-government we desire. A comment..., after seeking this legitimacy and this legal employment, a comment on the content: it is a law to be able to vote, as it said before, and it has all the guarantees that Catalans can exercise their right to vote. We have created, yes, an electoral union only for this time, for the reference of self-determination, an ad hoc organ to ensure, together with international missions, transparency and also the impartiality of the votes. It is a reference that is obviously binding, is to determine the effects that have both yes and no, and, therefore, the citizens will always know what the effects of their vote are. We have also presented some point-by-point reviews – that like all groups have them today is not the day to talk, precisely, about these reviews – that are basically technical. With regard to the procedure, before the hostility shown to us by the State at all times, we chose this procedure: that of 81.3. It is the tool that has allowed us to arrive today in the plenary; it is the tool that allows us, too, to follow the deputies and the deputies of Catalonia, all of them, who today vote, and it is the tool that will also allow, on October 1st, both those of yes and those of no as of abstention, to exercise their vote in a free manner. If there was any other, any of you, who in repeated debates we asked them to help us get here, they could have made any proposal. It's not worth the fact that they made us at the Spokesman's Board today in a way that's obviously out of place and out of line. Let no one take up this argument to justify anything: it is the State that has not allowed this procedure to be done in another way. But I don't want to spend more time, because the harshness of the state's performance, the abscess of the instruments it has in its abyss, the lack of empathy, the lack of knowledge of which is the situation in Catalonia, the lack of knowing exactly what a great majority of Catalans think – or perhaps because they know it so well they act exactly as they do and so do not let us vote – this distance between what the state government thinks happens in Catalonia and what actually happens to us has led us to exercise this initiative in order to be able to vote on October 1. But I don't want to devote any more time to this justification, either, because, in the end, as I said before in the question I asked the president, in the end what they wanted, it is also that this movement, which was an illusion movement, which is an illusion movement of hope, changed; that you change with this to all that they wanted us to install, of constant threat. Today, the Bureau of Parliament is holding another execution incident with another complaint. We've been at all times with our hands stretched out. They have put the judiciary and all the instruments of the State against us. We're not on the same level plan. We're trying to exercise democracy, we're trying to vote, and some political parties have lost the opportunity to stand next to democracy and have stood next to the PP. Some parties with a long democratic tradition that, today, have returned to the side of the PP, the Government of the PP, in accounts of being at the side of democracy. They don't get us out of here. They don't drag us out of this illusion and hope. And I'm done. Today's not a vote more than we're gonna do. As I used to say to the beginning of my intervention, Together for Yes it has been and is a political instrument to complete the independence of Catalonia. It has been and is a sum of volunteers, of people, of parties, with a common yearning: the full sovereignty of our country. In these two years, the Members and Members of our parliamentary group have voted on hundreds of resolutions, laws, proposals that have been made from different groups, motions, etc. We have pressed the button of yes, no and forbearance on many different issues affecting the day-to-day lives of our citizens. We'll do it too. But today, when we press the yes button, we will realize that we do not do it alone. Today, who takes the button of our escons are all those citizens who have trusted us two years ago because we are the political instrument that you allow them to regain dignity as a country. We have heard all those people who showed up every September 11 with a smile at the door and with the illusion of working to get a sovereign Catalonia. Today, companies and members of Junts for the Yes, we value politics as a tool to improve our society: politics well understood. And we thought, when we thought that this moment would come, that we would defend yes, that we would defend independence. And today it was up to us to defend democracy in our home, because they have given up defending it. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, today, we also constitute guarantors of all those who will not vote for independence, but we hope that October 1st, in a massive way, will be put at the expense of all the people of Catalonia, at the expense of democracy and the vagina to vote. Today nothing ends; today, in fact, everything begins. Companies and fellow Members and Members, we have certainly been and are an instrument for those who trusted us, and today, by pressing the yes button, we will feel the shock, the support and the pride; we make a name for those citizens who with our vote will feel well represented. Companies and companies, companies and company members of Junts for the Yes, make us worthy of this moment, make us worthy of this representation. And today, the sixty-one deputies and deputies of Junts for the Yes and our Muriel... – who today would be here with us, with a certain amount of confidence that he would have nothing to see with what we have seen – our Muriel will also vote with us today. We press the yes button with the tall head and with the pride of voting... [[applause]] I'm proud of you. [[Perlongats applause.]] We press the yes button with the pride of voting a yes to democracy, a yes to our future and a yes to a free and independent Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.471.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. [[The applause continues.]] Next is the representative of the People's Party. The words of Mr Xavier García Albiol, of the Popular Party.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.472.0	President.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. They have worked in favour of parliamentarianism. They have made a defense of democracy, plurality and freedom. And that's why I want to congratulate you, because you've lived up to the circumstances. [[Greetings.]] Let me begin my speech by highlighting the crucial moment that is coming to us to live in this plenary session. And for this it is necessary, I want to emphasize an evidence, or, rather, an unquestionable truth: the Catalans we have been, we have been referenced in the political and social transformations that contemporary Spain has experienced. I'm going to talk to you without any complex about what you don't like to hear, about that word you hate, I'm going to talk about Spain. And I'm going to talk to you about Spain, because when we talk about Spain we're also talking about Catalonia. And I will do so as it has been spoken of for centuries by the majority of Catalans, from respect and also admiration. Spain, ladies and gentlemen, is not a foreign subject to us, nor is it a foreign entity or a prosthesis imposed on Catalans; no. Spain is our home. And it is our home because we Catalans too have participated in a very active way in the construction of this great nation. Today we are the majority of Catalans who do not want us to be bordered; we refuse to make our opportunities small, to deny our history, to untie our emotional ties and, finally, to break our identity in a thousand pieces. In short, we do not want a political elite to kidnap us from the country that we have built among all. We do not want it and, moreover, they can be absolutely sure that we will not allow it. Ladies and gentlemen, the episode we are experiencing, regrettably, we will not be able to register it at any of the moments I have described. It is clear that Catalonia does not currently go through times of fullness, exemplaryity or concord, as we have seen today. We do not live moments of emotional construction that..., but I have to tell you, and this is very important, that we are not living a tragic moment either. The tragedy has its dignity, and what we are living now is far from the dignified and heroic drama. Unfortunately, Mr Puigdemont, and Mr Junqueras, you have moved us to another kind of event, to a fraudulent and perverse representation; fraudulent and perverse to maintain the illusion of a few and divide us all. If President Tarradellas raised his head today he would be deeply saddened to see the profound damage that a political and irresponsible elite has done to his legacy; a legacy of covenants, a legacy of concord that you, the independence elite, do not understand or respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the best authors of our history have always highlighted as distinctive and distinctive features that are the most outstanding of Catalans the spirit of covenant and seny. Today, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras are tearing apart the best of our tradition. In recent years, because of all of you, Catalonia is further and further away from itself. Thanks to you, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, the most successful face has been erased as a modern society in Catalonia; you have turned the institution of the Generalitat and the Parliament – and you have done so in record time – into the smaller, weaker, less secure and less respectable version of the European institutions. The Law of the referendum now before us is a political deception of the first magnitude – a political deception of the first magnitude – and they know it perfectly well – than a few hours of self-congratulation. It is, in short, a very serious irresponsibility that would place Catalonia outside the rule of law, outside the law and, therefore, outside the European democracies of the 21st century. Just, as I tell you, a perverse deception and irresponsibility. That is why neither of you is worthy of the high dignity of the office you hold, neither of you. His attitude is the reaction of the coward, of whom he does not know how to recognize the error, of the one who is not able to rectify; in short, it is the way forward from the proud and irresponsible, it is the best mirror that reflects you two. Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, you are responsible for the worst institutional crisis in Catalonia and Spain over the past thirty-six years. They are trying to strike democracy, but be sure of one thing: they are not going to get away with it. The democratic institutions of this country, which guarantee the freedom of Catalans, have the strength and legitimacy of democracy to stop them. From the People's Party we are not going to close our eyes to a reality: we are fully aware that a part – not a majority, but a part – of the Catalans follow them enthusiastically in the democratic trophies they are trying to carry, which they are trying to perpetrate. It is the consequence of many years of discourses of subsidized hatred, hatred against Spain and hatred against everything that this great nation represents. And now they come here with the boldness of trying to break in five years a nation of five hundred years, the oldest in Europe. It won't take long for the generations to come. [[remorse of the voice]] Be aware...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.473.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.474.0	...of the damage they are inflicting on Catalan institutions and society. You are filled with mouths when you speak in the name of all Catalans, but you truly do not respect this earth. And they don't respect her because someone who respects her doesn't break her in two, because someone who wants her doesn't rip her out of her story and doesn't put her out of the rule of law. Because whoever wants it, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, does not ridicule it and discredit it in the eyes of all the international authorities. Because they know perfectly well that no international or European authority will recognize anyone who causes the breakdown of the rule of law by causing the explosion of their legal order. Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, they are running towards the precipice without stopping to reflect on whether what they are doing is good for the coexistence of Catalonia. Frankly, I cannot believe that you believed that in Europe you were waiting for them with open arms. No one will support an ultra-nationalist movement that wants to break the fourth power of the European Union; no one, I repeat, will support politicians who believe themselves above the law, above good and evil and who lead their people to a shock, to a social fracture. Moreover, even if you do not admit it in public, you know perfectly well that, if your ambitions were hypothetically fulfilled, you would leave Catalonia outside the European Union, which would be a major social and economic blow. And when you got here, I'd ask you for an act of sincerity. You, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras, have never wanted to dialogue with the Government of Spain. [[Widow's remorse.]] Its meaning..., its meaning of the word "dialogue" is: "Or referendum for good or referendum for bad. This is the meaning of the word dialogue. This is the real attitude and predisposition to the dialogue that the Generalitat has; there is no middle ground: "You either give me what I want or I break the deck. Instead of the pact, imposition; instead of the agreement, unilaterality; instead of law, arbitrariness of power; instead of betting on coexistence, they bet on confrontation; instead of adding up, they seek division, portal, blackmail and rupture. Gentlemen, it's a sad choice. They know at all times that the Government of Spain does not want or can authorize a referendum to break, because this affects national sovereignty and national sovereignty does not belong to President Mariano Rajoy, nor to his Government, nor to the Congress of Deputies; national sovereignty belongs to all Spaniards, to the Spanish as a whole: Catalans, Basques, Galicians and other communities. Everyone. [[Greetings.]] And what Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras want to impose, and the CUP, is to steal from all the Spaniards, including obviously the Catalans, our right to be what we decided to be, and what we will be will be decided between all and not just a part. That sovereignty resides in the Spanish as a whole is something you have always known. They have always known that we cannot allow a referendum to break up our country. Spain is an advanced democracy and, as in France, Germany, Italy or the United States, a referendum of secession is not admissible, because it is simply undemocratic. Removing the capacity to decide the whole is undemocratic, because it belongs..., that a few can exclude most citizens from democracy. Ladies and gentlemen of the parliamentary majority, which is not social, you all know that this law will never come into force and that the referendum will not be held, and will not be held because it is an attack on democracy and an attack on freedom. The democratic institutions, with the government of Mariano Rajoy at the head, do not have the slightest doubt, will be equal to the circumstances to defend all Catalans that we bet to live in peace and that we bet on coexistence. They will defend freedom, the Government of Spain, against totalitarianism and will do so with force, democracy, proportionality and intelligence. You want to create a great conflict that damages the economic interests and social coexistence of the Catalans and the rest of the Spanish, but have the guarantee that we will not give you that pleasure. The People's Party, the Government of Spain will act calmly and firmly, away from nervousness, rift and inefficiency... which you, the independence elite, are demonstrating. Catalonia is not and will not be an independent republic. We will ensure compliance with the law here, in Catalonia, as we guarantee throughout Spain. And be very clear that not only will the unity of Spain be preserved, but that the rights and freedoms of Catalans will be guaranteed in the face of radical separatism, which endangers them. Spain is not just one of the oldest nations in Europe, it is a rule of law and it is one of the democratic powers of the European Union. And here the law is fulfilled and the law is the same for all. He is obliged to comply with the law, and he is obliged for the neighbor of the fifth and also for politicians. And also for you, Mr Puigdemont and Mr Junqueras. You are not above the rest of Catalans and Spaniards. You, even if you believe it, are not higher beings than justice does not affect you. You, if you continue with this democratic scam, and I repeat, if you continue with this democratic scam, with the deception of the illegal referendum, you must be very clear that you will suffer the consequences. You want the consequences to be borne by the Catalans, but it is they and only those who skip the law who will pay those consequences. No government, nor yours, will fail the law; not in this country. And I'm done. There may be countries with laws and without democracy, but there is no democracy without respect for laws. That is why I can assure you and all the Catalans and also the rest of the Spanish that the People's Party, the government of Mariano Rajoy, will act with intelligence and proportionality, but be sure that also with all the democratic force that allows us the rule of law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.475.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. Next is the words of Mr.Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Mr. Joan Giner, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.476.0	For a point of order. I wanted to ask him if it was possible that in the intervention of the group there were two interventions, one based more on the papers and another based more on the rest of the articulation, so that I could express plurality. If time's up, of course.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.477.0	There's no problem, if there's time, there's two interventions, and if... this, then, if the doorman agrees, because it's the last word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.478.0	Well, thank you very much, President. I'm starting... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Thank you very much, President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.479.0	Yes; a moment, please – a moment, please. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Nuet..., Mr. Nuet, and please. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Nuet, please. See, there may be two interventions if time is shared, but this is the decision of the spokesman, which is the spokesman who decides who is talking. And anyway, the spokesman said that Mr. Rabell was speaking. Therefore, Mr. Rabell has fifteen minutes. Mr. Coscubila, that's it, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.480.0	President, I have tried from everyone that this debate is conducted in terms of normality. It would have been very good if you could have presented the papers, discussed the papers to the totality and so on, and then...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.481.0	Mr. Coscubila...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.482.0	Unfortunately, most of us have imposed a method that makes sense that doesn't really help us to do things. I can feel it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.483.0	Mr. Rabell, I can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.484.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, here we come, here we come... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah? Can I start? Are they interested in the subject? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay. We come to the debate on a bill's proposal – we come to the debate on a bill's proposal – which our parliamentary group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, cannot endorse. And we cannot endorse it from the coherence of a political space that has always – always – defended the need for a reference, until and when you are mocked by this past screen and ridiculed it; a reference that this Parliament, at the general policy debate of October last year, decided [[remorse of the voice]] that was to be included...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.485.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.486.0	... that the full democratic guarantees were to be gathered and that the expected recognition of the international community was to be counted on; all of them were essential requirements for the reference to have legal and political effects. This reference, I insist, voted for the Parliament of Catalonia in a resolution that remains in force, is not, by any means, the one drawing the proposal of law that so abruptly is today's submissive. The most difficult problem is not that the '1 October call with the beautiful opposition of the Spanish State – which, obviously, is not a minor issue, and we will continue to encounter it – but the fact that the reference that you intend to make turns the skeleton to the half of the Catalan society and appears as an outstanding proposal. The reference that you announce does not meet the conditions of the Venice Commission, cap. The rule is approved, or is intended to be approved, three weeks after your celebration, when you had the law from a year ago; it does not guarantee an independent electoral union; we follow, at hours of the day, without knowing the electoral census; it does not guarantee the plurality of communication media; etc. No conditions through which the Venice Commission approves a reference as a binding consultation. Thus, we can state in a clear sense that, beyond the passages that the Spanish Government poses and will pose, but also beyond the citizen's response that comes to the convocation of '1 October, the 1 October will have no place whatsoever that can be approved as a reference, that it is likely to obtain recognition neither from Spain nor from Europe, and still less that it has a binding character for the Catalan society. Allow me, however, to express before our alarm before the deeply anti-democratic form in which this proposal for law is dealt with. What happened today at the length of the day was not a mere incident, a wave of parliamentary harassment or, as has been suggested or said, parliamentary filibusterism. The path for the majority – weighting my words – has set a serious blow, the hardest since the restoration of the Generality, to representative political democracy in this country. We have seen, we are witnessing a degradation without precedents of the democratic quality of this Parliament, a degradation that will cost a lot and which will eventually have very negative consequences for the citizens of this country. The argument is known: "The Spanish government is denied the dialect. Is he denying the dialy? So much so that she's denying the dialy! It has been years since the PP stopped doing politics in Catalonia, which responds to the unrest and requests for self-government of its citizens with negative, threatening, judicial actions; it has been interpreting the Constitution much more as a penal code than as a space for the construction of political solutions, which the Constitutional Court undertakes to move from its arbitral role to a punitive function... All this is true. The PP, in fact, does not have a future project for the multi-national reality of Spain. And the citizenry of this Catalonia that claims national recognition, higher quotas of freedom and, even more importantly, a good part of its society, on the ribbon of independence, the people of this country pay very hard the consequences of this immobilism of the Spanish right. But they also pay – and it is important to remember – – the citizenry and the popular classes of state-arrest, which have suffered equally from authoritarian drifts, law bites, centralism, underfunding of autonomy, austerity policies, and which have seen downsizing labour rights, social inequalities increase, and also increase the poor. It's all gone. But, returning to the debate before us today, the imposition by the majority of an anti-democratic procedure that has violated the Rules, the Law of the Board of State Guarantees and the very Statute of Catalonia also in tea, of negative consequences and frankly disturbing. A law of this transcendence, which they claim, no more or less, not to open to a new state, cannot pass as an exhalation for the Parliament of Catalonia. In fact, we would discuss much less the birth of the Catalan Republic that we have not devoted time, for example, to such transcendent issues as the County Council of Barcelones. Here, let me remind you, in this Parliament, in this chamber, the plurality of Catalan society is represented. The democratic mandate that so many calls for does not represent seventy-two seats, nor does it represent eighty-three seats, but 135 seats in Parliament. In preventing the opposition, seriously, responsibly, from exercising its democratic rights, discussing and qualifying a law proposal, I can make statements on conditions, with an opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, affecting the effective construction of the law, making these debates to the citizenry with the time and depth necessary, in a word, to prevent the groups of this chamber from realizing their representative function, you have not taken over the people of Catalonia, all the contrary: you have tarnished their political representation, claiming the need to be astute, and astute..., well, in the Spanish State we do not believe that they deceive the masses; but to whom they have mocked the city of Catalonia. And the fracture that this Parliament will see today can be transferred to Catalan society. And this is his responsibility, these are the abst and the political consequences of something that is of exceptional gravity and that is not reciprocated and that will not, dissociately, fall between the four sides of this Parliament. The form – it has been said some time, but it is very certain – is indestriable from the background of things. And the method employed is based on the purpose that it is pursued and revealed. And a method as little democratic as this can hardly last any democratic advent. Today it is intended to subvert a legal order such as that represented by the Constitution or the very Statute of Catalonia and which we have absolutely the right to consider inadequate, short, insufficient for the nine aspirations of our society; we have all the right to do so. But what we can't do is replace this legality with another without a new legitimacy. And you don't have it, this new legitimacy. The majority, speaking of the parliamentary debate, can impose their dictates on minorities without denying the deep sense of democracy. But it's that you, even if you have a majority of escons, do not have enough social support to establish this new legality that you claim. Here comes the congenital democratic fever of the proposals of law that are promoted. First, a law of reference, which we are discussing now, without falling within the legal order in force, walk, insecurity for citizens, public and functional functions, without guarantees as elementary as a known and questionable cens, an electoral authority and some colleges that are not on the side. But... Not to mention the clamorous lack of impartiality of public and subsidized media, the involvement of the same government in the campaign, etc. And a founding law of the republic, which we have in perspective, of a new state, which sees a little bit of the motxillas of this first law of reference and which, among many other misproposals – I suppose we will have occasion to speak to it tomorrow or tomorrow, when it arrives surprisingly also to this Parliament –, among other misproposals this law of transition draws an architecture of subordination of the judiciary to the execution that hardly, at hours of this day, would accept the European Union, especially after the precedent of its conflict with the authoritarian drift of Poland. A prestigious lawyer wrote in a diary: "Perhaps a new country, but a worse state. This is not a good wish for the perspective that you are proposing to us. And all this, however, would result from a vote that, in addition to being deprived of guarantees, would oblige Catalan society, regardless of participation. But do you really think this is the answer to the PP's bunkerization? And will this advance Catalonia's aspirations for self-government? Or more recently we're struggling dangerously in a tensile strategy with the State that polarizes positions and perpetuates a conflict? A few days ago President Puigdemont said that there are only two alternatives: accept the current status quo, even all the degradation of the autonomy we have, or pull for the right to independence. Well, then, in our opinion, these two are precisely, among all the unimaginable things, the two most inviable and inverse hypotheses, if not formulated in those terms. Because neither the current situation is sustainable – nor the current situation is sustainable – because of the fact that the PP itself loses its absolute majority, that we are ahead of the exhaustion of the pacts and arrangements of the Transition, because the PP itself loses its absolute majority, that new political forces are irrupting and making clear the multi-national reality of Spain at the same Congress of Deputies, neither is it possible – nor is it possible – to absolve the reference and independence for the way you propose, a way that is setting a deep divide in itself of the Catalan society, an infinite foothold, that embraces us in power and that can end in tremendous frustration. And while this is happening, we are following prisoners of unjust taxation policies, obsolete product and environmental models, huge social deficits that have come in the years of retailing... We need to find a way forward, building large social groups, complicity with the Spanish society, scenes of change of government and democratic decision-making in the country. This is the moment to remember: this was the dynamic of the National Covenant for the Referendum that you have rushed to liquidate in order to reverse the path of unilaterality. Unilaterality that in its approach is not only respect to the Spanish State, but also for what it does – and it has seen itself, has happened in the debate of these days, today – to a good half of the same Catalan society. That is why we will not tire of insisting on the need to recompose that vast majority in favour of the right to decide, the only one that can generate the scenes and the correlations of force that make your exercise possible. We regret that it was not in this sense, when it would be more necessary than ever, to propose the law we are debating. And, as I said to the principle, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot will not support it, this law, with a favorable vote. Even so, despite all the shortcomings exposed, many people, we are not convinced, will want to vote the 1st of October, many people will want to express their hopes of freedom, to face Rajoy's intransigent attitude..., and nothing is more legitimate. This pulse of Catalan society is indefensible. The biggest mistake, in fact, made by the PP government has been to lessen the mobilization and demands of this society, thinking that it was a move set, a pure nationalist device, a breath that would not be enough to deflate itself. So, also, to express the reservations that inspire this law, deep reservations that we have expressed and that we have tried, in some way, to compensate through a battery of statements..., we have tried even a whole question to the totality, substantial ones that were mostly in the sense of opening up the possibility of another approach of a democratic consultation to the citizenry of Catalonia. Despite this, Catalonia Yes, I can understand that in the current context of blocking and threatening to send a connivance message to this city's desire to express itself at the polls, because this is, in our view, the dominant part of the situation. In this sense, finally, the parliamentary group will issue an abstention, despite all the deep reservations that inspire this law and that we think is not the solution to the situation. Because, we insist, it is legitimate and necessary a protest before the attitude of the Spanish government, and sense doubt not little people perceive October 1 as a mobilization in this sense. It is a mistake, on the other hand, to present as referring something that is not, and even more to brandish it as a starting point of substantial changes in the legal order that cannot last this way. Finally, we would like to say that it can still have worse consequences for the democratic procedure for which they have forced the processing of the law, misrepresenting the rights of parliamentary groups. Finally, the Law of the Referendum will have the recourse it will have, but the precedent that has been established today will have far longer consequences in parliamentary life and democratic life in Catalonia. Acting like this, you may want to give satisfaction to the convinced, but they do, dissociately do that much of the citizenry can't share its call, when we just need to be applicating larger social majorities than ever before. On the 2nd of October we will have to assess the situation of the country, the landscape after the battle. And we are convinced that the social and democratic problems that we face today will be fully settled. We hope, if not, that our contribution to such a complex and emotional debate as we have today will contribute, if not, to taking them into better condition. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.487.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Mr. Miquel Iceta, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.488.0	Thank you, Mrs. Forcadell. Ladies and gentlemen, Catalanism has been, and we work because it is still a vertebrate factor of the country, a collective aspiration to settle ever higher odds of freedom, justice and equality. At the length of history, Catalanism has known moments of gloria and moments of difficulty, lights and shadows, moments of unity and moments of deep division. We should not, therefore, be surprised that as a result, there are important differences in criteria in a diverse and dynamic society like ours. From our point of view, however, there are three limits that we should never exceed. The first is respect for all ideas they seek, from very different perspectives, the progress and well-being of the country. It is not appropriate, therefore, to create false and interesting divisions between democrats and non-democrats, good and ailing, patriots and botiflers, subjects and citizens. The second limit is the civilian unit of our people. Never the existence of different political projects – and, sometimes, faced hard – must not involve a division into irreconcilable halves for reasons of language, origin or political settlement. It's not good for the country, it's never been in our history, it wouldn't be in the future or it wouldn't be in the future. The third limit is the permanent effort to ensure that institutions mark what is produced in the democratic debate and the government's action..., it is always everyone's and they must deserve the respect of everyone. It is good the existence of different political projects that can deliver a democratic fight for the assimilation of majorities and different political objectives, but it would be terrible that this democratic fight ended up eroding the institutions and a significant part of the country – which is bigger or smaller – no longer felt to be represented, that there are citizens and citizens of Catalonia who end up considering that the institutions of all are not their institutions. And today I have to say that, from our point of view, the presidency of Parliament has not been the presidency of all. Therefore, I would like to thank the members of the Bureau and the Chamber of Deputies who have defended the rights of all Members and all groups. I wanted to begin with this reflection my intervention in the debate of the totality of the law's proposal that I intend to regulate the celebration of a self-determination referendum, to try to contextualize my words and to warn of what I think can become a historical error of Catalanism. Ferrater Mora defines in his book The forms of Catalan life the four elements he considers decisive in the construction of our collective personality; he speaks to us of continuity, seny, measure and irony. Certainly, the history of Catalanism has been impelled by these and other attributes; it has had long periods of seny, continuity, self-governing construction, and also moments of division and radiance which, in the context of promoting adventurous events, have caused setbacks, disconcertingness and desanimity. I think we are at risk of finally ending ourselves at a stage of disconcerting and despondent – I would like to be mistaken, which I made clear. The generation of unsupported expectations, in my opinion, is bringing us there. When are they going to trial? Do we consider early 2010 or 2012? Whether it's gone, five or seven years; they haven't been years of a great adventure. Certainly, the economic crisis has had a lot to see. But in my opinion, the setting of wrong goals, the misappreciation of forts, majorities and obstacles involved a trio of strategies and instruments that run the risk of perpetuating – and forgiving the apparent contradiction – an immobile, spin-off and resultless movement. If that's it, if that's it, it's bad news for the country. But if, moreover, this deteriorates our institutions, the evil can be profound and lasting. And that's a lot to see with the debate that we're having here today. I will not discover them again if I tell them that our group opposes with all its might a proposal for law that in such an original way – let me be so afloat – they will bring us here today. Our reasons are well known: we, as neither the Council of State Guarantees nor the legal services of the chamber, do not believe that Catalonia can exercise the right of self-determination. And the claim to acquire it in the international right is naive or evil; you know, motieu expositions, in other words, allow everything. We do not believe that Catalonia's options for the future, in relation to the rest of Spain, can be reduced to two: stay as we are or break forever. The very logic of the reference that they propose to us is to resolve a tie that will inevitably leave a deep permanent dissatisfaction to almost half the Catalans. We think we're working harder to find a solution that's far more satisfying for most people than 50_per_cent. I summarize them: more self-government, better finance and federal Spain. It's not a simple solution, it's complex; it's not easy, it has great difficulties. But we think it's much better, from the start, because in no case does the civilian unit of the Catalan people put at risk. We want the governments of Catalonia and Spain to negotiate the requests that the Catalan Government has put on the table. We want to develop the Statute and recover elements eroded by the judgment of the Constitutional Court through reforms of the laws of the institutions and of the same Constitution; we want a better financing that guarantees the regularity and that sets out the tax consortium defined to the Statute; we want to ensure the strategic investments, from which we highlight the Mediterranean Corridor and the rolling services; we want the State to commit itself to respecting the defence and promotion of our language, our culture and our symbols; we want Barcelona to develop without beginning its capitality, that it is not only Catalan, but also that it is Spanish and European, yes, that all this effort culminates in a constitutional reform that makes it possible to accept all of its capitality, that it is not Catalan, but that it is also Spanish and European, and we want, that all of this effort culminates in a constitutional reform that makes it possible to express its political acceptance, that it accepts all of its meaning in a pluralistic sense. You, on the other hand, intend in one day to settle a relationship of more than five seconds without looking at it and illegally; you intend to call a reference organized in three weeks, with ballot boxes that say you have stores and with expenses that you have to camouflage, or perhaps cover with external contributions that I escape to accounting taxation. A process without legal employment or does not have place or will result in very negative consequences for people and for the same institutions. And as it stands, this process does not have any legal effect, we have been unanimously told by the Catalonian State Guarantee Board, many incomplete, but among them the first of the recommendations of the Venice Commission of the Council of Europe, because it is neither for the Constitution nor for a law in accordance with the Constitution. The Constitutional Court has also sometimes told us that it has warned us about the difficult consequences of reaching agreements that flagrantly violate legality, such as this proposed law or the legal and foundational transitory nature of the republic. Allow me, as it is read a little today, to read two points only from the note that the readers today have made public. Please note that the two legislative proposals I have referred to, because of their content and objectively considered, have a direct relationship with the resolutions of Parliament 1/11 of 27 September 2015; 5/11 of 20 January 2016; 263/11 of 27 July 2016 and 306/11 of 6 October 2016, as they present a line of continuity, development and support of the objectives expressed in the Resolutions. Two: that for this reason, the processing of the proposals of law is affected by the compliment of the judgment of the Constitutional Court 259/2015, of 2 December, which declares unconstitutional and null resolution 1/11 of the Parliament of Catalonia and the interlocutors of the Constitutional Court 141/2016, 170/2016 and 24/2017, dictated in the marc of incidents of execution of the judgment before alluded, 259/2015, referring to other resolutions of the Parliament. That's what the casters say. It is not my opinion, of our group, of the Unionists, of Mariano Rajoy, of the Vice President of the Government, of the media cave... No, it is the people of the Parliament of Catalonia who have wanted, in exercise of their responsibility – which I thank them – to warn about the difficult consequences of the act that you today want to carry out here. We cannot and do not want to endorse an illegal, unilateral and unsecured process. We won't. But let me tell you: the first legality with which you fall is Catalan. To reform the Statute as a minimum support of two thirds of Parliament, and you want to liquidate it by an absolute majority. And don't tell me that this will depend on the results of the referendum, because they start to create an electoral union, which also, according to the Statute, requires the support of a majority of two thirds that they don't have. Certainly, a union to which they do not incorporate judgments; surely because they know that they will find well few. You are so aware of how you are climbing the Catalan law that even with these ideas you have not dared to defend yourself from here to avoid the parliamentary evaluation process of candidates to provide the Electoral Union and, moreover, to eliminate the terms that Catalan laws and the Regulation of the House of Commons are planting. [[Some applause.]] Therefore, the first victim of all this – forgive the abuse of the expression – "procedure is the Catalan legality: the Statute, the Regulation of the Chamber and the law governing the Council of State Guarantees of Catalonia". And they want to do so, all of this, today, in a hurry and in a rush, stifling the right of opposition, preventing the Board of Guarantees from issuing an opinion on this law. And allow me..., because it has not been authorized to read, but it is that the Council of State Guarantees of Catalonia today has issued a note which withdraws an agreement by unanimity, which says: "To bring to Parliament the precept, in the case of the legislative procedure, of the opening subsequent to the publication of any proposal of law of the term of request for an opinion to this Council, in guarantee of the right of the Members. We are not talking about an administrative or regulatory procedure, but about a right of Members, as prescribed by the corresponding articles of the Statute and the Law of the Council of State Guarantees. And it says, the Guarantee Board: "According to this, I correspond to the Bureau, as to the parliamentary body competent for the qualification and admission to court of all parliamentary initiatives, the outline of the requests for advice to the council, in compliment of the Statute, of the Rules of Parliament and Law 2/2009. This morning I announced that our group had come – and so it did – to the Constitutional Court for the violation of our rights. You have the announcement that we will send you an annex tomorrow, because there has been a certain breach at this late session, which is further aggravated by the warning provided for writing and unanimity, according to the Catalonia State Guarantee Board. Therefore, you are eroding our institutions. They're detailing the rights of opposition groups and deputies. I'm sorry, I'm trying not to raise the voice or the adjectives, but this is a shame, from our point of view. Because if you say you don't care what the Constitutional Court can decide, why don't you do things right? Why don't you, like at least, respect the Rules of Parliament? Why do they deny the opposition to exercising their rights? And you say, "No, it's that you've been blocking what we wanted. But, let's see, the facts are facts. What day did we know the date and question of October 1st? Mr. President, I'm sure you remember her well and you won't deny me, it was June 10th. Until July 31st, we did not know the law; we certainly knew it in the last day of the session. Why couldn't it start processing before they were the same as the Constitutional Court was supposed to say? They told us they were enabling the second fortnight of August, it wasn't... And yes, yes, on August 15th, many of us were already here, prepared for the 16th, which was to be, with forgiveness of the expression – and allow me the joke – the holy advent. I wasn't like that. Therefore, if you are late and have had to ask for Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the terms, the requests, the procedures and our rights, it is not because there are parties that do not share their political project, that you, who have said that you want to disobey and that they are the same as the Constitutional Court, for what it is – let's just say – have not decided until now. Leave him here. So we can't go with them. We cannot give for good a project which incorporates the germ of the division and which places the institutions, which are of all, outside the law. We can't even legitimize this disarray with our presence at the time of voting. And it's thanks to someone who criticizes us, when our group's rights are trampled, all the deputies, in this way, when they systematically deny themselves and all the legal advice of the chamber servants; that we understand why. Because curiously they seem to coincide enough with the approach we have defended, it doesn't seem that someone with recognized authority and that no one can say that they are acting under the dictate of the Government of the State to tell them that they are perpetrating a disarray. That's why I couldn't know what the people thought. That is why you did not want the Board of State Guarantees of Catalonia to issue its opinion. Certainly, in that chapter I was guarding, which you know, that it is ‘Iceta-prophet' – I said it on August 16th – all this, all this disarray had only one objective: to prevent the Catalonian State Guarantee Board from issuing an opinion on this bill and what it seems to be coming from it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.489.0	Mr. Iceta, you're running out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.490.0	All right. If you leave, I'll finish right away. Not in our name. No, not with our presence. Today's act will have very negative consequences. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] Now, only you are responsible. Although I'm afraid the consequences will cause us all great harm. You've agreed to repeat a 9-N. They won't count on our support. Now they will explain that yes, that now goes well, as they did on 9 November, as they did with the 2015 elections, that you said they were plebiscites, as when you said that in divided Catalonia would be independent. You create false expectations that generate real frustrations. They tell us that this is democracy, but this is only independence, because democracy begins to respect the rights of opposition, the rights that you have decided today to violate in a fearless and irresponsible way. Don't ask us to go with you, we won't. Day 1 will not have the actual reference, binding and with guarantees to which they have agreed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.491.0	Mr. Iceta, I know it's hard, but it's been a long time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.492.0	Well, so, to me..., I wanted to quote..., I know I can't, but... there's a counselor who told the truth, the other day, in an interview published in a media outlet, diumenge. He says: "We already know, that this is not going to happen, but we want to provoke a reaction from the State, to see if it is too much as it is because people are accompanying us. This irresponsibility we do not share in absolute, we denounce it [[applause]] With force...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.493.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.494.0	...and that's why...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.495.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.496.0	...that at this moment I withdraw our message and the announcements...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.497.0	Mr. Iceta...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.498.0	...that the time to vote isn't there. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.499.0	The words "Inés Arrimadas", of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, are followed by the words "Inés Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.500.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, Councillors, Councillors, the 25 Members of the European Parliament representing 750,000 Catalans, we are not going to be involved in an illegality or an abuse of the rights of Catalans. And that's why we're not going to be in the vote on this law, by calling it something. And we are going to do this for two reasons: for a reason of form and for a reason of substance. In democracy, forms are also important, and the way in which the processing and discussion of this self-named law has been conducted has been illegal, irregular, and what we have seen today has been demented. I would like to express my gratitude to the Members of Parliament, who have tried to defend the rights of the Catalan citizens represented in the Members, who have tried to defend the honourability and legitimacy of this Parliament. But it is that today it has gone beyond what the Members of Parliament say, the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. In addition, admission to procedure and publication in an absolutely irregular manner have been made, with a clandestine publication by the Presidency. The resolution of the Constitutional Court, which was expressly addressed to certain members of the Bureau, and also denying Members of the opposition procedures as basic as being able to request a report from the Board of Guarantees. To the Board of Statutory Guarantees, which has given us the reason. He has told us that you cannot rob us of the right to submit the report to the Board of State Guarantees, because it is mandatory. Maybe it's not binding, and it's not, but it's mandatory, and you can't rob us of the right to present it. And it's the Council of Statutory Guarantees, the lawyers of Parliament, it's not the evil prosecutor's office or the Constitutional Court, no, it's the lawyers of this chamber, and an institution that you have chosen to your finger, as is the Council of Statutory Guarantees, because neither yours nor those that you have put to your finger in that institution no longer give you reason. Moreover, today we have witnessed a violation of the separation of powers, because this is a legislative body, different from the executive, and today we have seen what has never been seen in this Parliament, which is that the President of Parliament has acted today as the management of the Junqueras and Puigdemont Government; she has acted today as the government delegate in the Parliament of Junqueras and Puigdemont; she has acted today with one single objective – with one single objective – with one cause, which has been separatism. And it has been embarrassing to have to remind the Madam President that she is no longer the President of the ANC, but must be the President of all Members. And what has happened today is going to generate a precedent that will last much longer than this law will last without being annulled; it is a precedent of how the seriousness of this Parliament can be called into question, how respect for the procedures of this Parliament can be called into question, respect for the political plurality of this Parliament. Today we have witnessed the abuse of the rights of Members, who, by the way, represent more Catalans in the four opposition groups, who have been denied the right to submit amendments, who have been denied the right to submit an appeal to the Conseil de Garanties Statutàries, to those Members who have voted against the way in which this law has been dealt with, to those Members, who think differently and have very different ideologies, but who have been denied the right to submit an appeal to the Conseil de Garanties Statutàries and our rights, we represent more Catalans than the two opposition groups who are going to support this law. You have acted today as an absolutist majority – as an absolutist majority – trampling on with a majority of seats, and from a minority of votes on the street, the rights of a majority of citizens represented in the opposition. I wonder what the concept of democracy you have. When you joined the public office, some decades ago, what were you supposed to have a public office? What was an immunity card? What gave you superpowers? What gave you the ability to choose your judges? What was it that was supposed to sit on a red velvet chair? That they were going to be more than the rest of the citizenry that we're seeing right now? The middle class, normal families, who are watching us right now, know that if a self-employed person spends a day paying his/her obligations he/she can drop a 20_per_cent surcharge. The families who are watching us [[applause]] They know that if you go with the car and you haven't passed the ITV, they can fine you if they catch you. And no one complains. The families who are watching us know that if you don't pay the mortgage you lose the house; they know that if you set up a business and you don't do well, not because you've done anything wrong, but because it hasn't gone well, they can take all your goods away from you. That, the people who are watching us know. And it seems that you have a concept of democracy in which politicians can do what they want. In fact, they can do a very curious thing, which is to announce years in advance that they are going to commit a crime and to be outraged when that has judicial consequences. I mean, it's the worst thing about him is his indignation at the announcement for months that they're going to jump the laws, they do, and they're indignant. What you will have done in your life without anything happening to you to be outraged by the judicial consequences of what you are doing. Where have you lived, gentlemen of Junts for Yes and the CUP? What have they done? What was it that was supposed to be presented on an electoral list? To be gods? To be immune? I assure you, in a democracy, no. And besides you have a double speech, and I will not tire of saying it: you are very brave and very epic here; before the judges you lose all epic. And, for example, we have lawyers from the Generalitat who to defend Mr. Mas say that it is the officials' fault. They say: "Oh! , the expenditure was involved, it was reviewed by the intervention. That is to say, in addition to that double speech, you are also able, in front of the judges, to put in jeopardy also and point with your finger to officials to derive your responsibility. [[Greetings.]] For all this... [[applause]] I do not know what anti-democratic regime you are inspired to defend these things for politicians. But we think that politicians have to lose privileges, such as, for example, strangulation. Don't go having any more privileges like the ones you're pretending to be, doing what I want to do, and on top of that no one says anything and no judge says anything to me. For all these reasons we are not going to participate in this illegality. But neither are we going to participate on substantive grounds, because of the content of this law, because of the approach you are making of this non-referendum. First of all, it's because you are based on a great lie. You repeat: "No, this is a democratic mandate. We are running for election with this and we have an obligation to carry it out. Lie – lie. There is no referendum on secession or independence in its electoral programme. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] Because you, at the time, were so anti-democratic – so anti-democratic – you at the time were so anti-democratic that you said there was no need to hold a referendum on independence, which had already been done. Mr. Romeva, Mr. Junqueras in various media outlets said that, man, secession referendums are not done twice and that they had already been done and that they only touched independence. Do you remember this road map, this maze nowhere? [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] There is no independence referendum here. You are based, for starters, on your approach, on a great lie. And we continue with the content of this law. We cannot support you because what you intend to do is absolutely beyond the capacity of this Parliament. What is the future of Spain, national sovereignty, rests with all citizens. I know that there are two modern democratic principles that you do not like, but in this country we citizens are free and equal. And you do not want to defend equality with the other Spanish citizens, but we do. [[Greetings.]] Moreover, I do not know why they complain so much about the constitutional principle that national sovereignty rests with the entire Spanish people, if they have copied it for their pseudoley of rupture, they have literally copied it and translated it. Was that principle so bad that you want to push it forward? I mean, Spain can be divided, but Catalonia can't. Because you say it, and there's nothing more to talk about. Well, it's a real misconception that it goes beyond the scope of the Statute of autonomy and that you don't have a parliamentary majority nor to modify a single article, a single coma of the Statute and you're pretending to go beyond it. And when I talk about the Statute, I don't just talk about the current Statute, the one that went through the Constitutional Court, no. The original, that, totally surpasses it. Moreover, any draft of the Statute of Autonomy that any independent jurist would have made in 2006 would be surpassed by this law of, supposedly, the referendum. It's a misconception and it's also a legal sham, and I have to tell you as a lawyer. And do you try to sell to the world that this is a referendum with guarantees? Really? I think they're already appealing to the faith. This is like a religious act: you have to believe it. If Mr. Junqueras says so, we have to believe him. Let's see. You say it's going to be a referendum with guarantees. Okay. And the census, where is it? Where did the data come from? Who has the addresses and IDs of Catalans? What are they, hidden in an ANC headquarters? Who's controlling them? Where did you get it? In an election the census is published in time, you can go and rectify it, it is available to citizens. Where are these guarantees? No, they'll probably be in an ANC room. That is already a guarantee for Mr Junqueras and Mr Puigdemont. We go on: the officials. You say: "No, as officials you do not have to participate. No, it's just that if you don't participate in your five-thousand-inhabitant town, you know the whole town that you didn't want to participate in an illegal referendum and you're between the sword and the wall. If I do what the government tells me I'm participating in an illegal act, and if you don't know all my people that I've turned against what the government is telling me. Ah, all right, what a way to point out to officials! We continue with the cods: the members of the tables. I love this. You are supposed to send letters to the citizens, that happens in elections, but because you do not want to stop saying: "No, but it will not be obligatory to attend; those who do not want to attend will tell us. Name, last name, where I live, I don't want to do what the government tells me. And then we do not know if you will make any of your famous lists with all the citizens who have had an obligation to tell you in writing that you do not want to participate in an illegal referendum. These are guarantees for the Lords of Junts for Yes. We're going on: election board. It is also charming, it is tender how you propose democratic guarantees. The election board, instead of having impartial judges, no, you're going to choose it by your finger. And on top of that today you have removed even more paperwork, that is, so that you have more room to choose who you want. Are these guarantees for you? You change things about electoral law, which is also a point that you reiterate. Since they do not have the courage to change the electoral law, because they do not want to lose parliamentary overrepresentation, which with a minority of votes have more seats, the electoral law we do not dare, apart from that they do not have a majority to do it, but I change the things that suit me. To apply the Spanish electoral law, as I told them the other day..., I told them the other day that they were more Spanish than Manolo the Bombo, I tell you today that they are more Spanish than Curro Jiménez. You love this law; you would like to make a republic and with the only applicable Spanish law – it would be the electoral law – because it gives you the power, from a minority, to direct a majority of citizens. Therefore, neither the substance nor the form are we going to participate in this illegality, this parliamentary bochorno, if I may say so, which has been seen by everyone. And, beyond why we are not going to vote and why we are not going to participate in this vote, I want to give you a reflection: since Mr. Mas has taken up the post of President, and then his finger-designate, Mr. Puigdemont, Catalonia is immersed in a stage not of prosperity, not of political challenges, not of consensus, is in a stage of disobedience, of confrontation and of commitment to the taking of the street. And that, gentlemen of Junts pel Yes, and especially gentlemen of the old Convergence, only benefits the CUP – only benefits the CUP. In that field of play you will never win, and above all we will not win the 7_million_and_half Catalans. There's nothing left for you, and it was recognized by some counselor the other day in an interview, that warms up the atmosphere. As you know that you do not have international support, as you know that you do not have a social majority, as you know that you do not have legal coverage, all you have left is to play in the field of the UPC, of disobedience, of warming the environment, and that is very dangerous, because when you play to face up to the Government of Spain [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , which also has its responsibility in all this, of course, they are also facing an internal division in Catalonia. And that's what you're denying and you're gonna find it. I say to you: the government of Mas and Puigdemont has been the worst strategy of all the governments of the Generalitat; you have achieved nothing, absolutely nothing, no better funding system, no more infrastructure, no clarification of competences; absolutely nothing. The worst negotiation strategy ever followed by a government of the Generalitat. You are betting on division rather than the legitimate discrepancy in democracy, and that is very dangerous, because you, moreover, I say to you, are not ruling even for the independenceist lords, for the independenceist citizens, who legitimately want independence. You have been promising independence and binding referendums for years. It was 9-N, we had to believe it was going to be a real referendum. In the end, what happened? Nothing. Well, yes, some people spent their money, but apart from that, politically, consequences, none. After this you promised plebiscite elections. He arrived on September 27, what happened after this? Nothing, that you promised independence in eighteen months. It's been the 18 months. What happened after that? Nothing, that you went back to the referendum stage. You are not ruling either for the independenceists, you are not ruling for anyone, because you are not going to get what you are promising to the independenceists, but while you are doing so you are putting a very serious thing at risk, and very important, which is Catalonia's autonomy; you are putting at risk the legislative capacity of this Parliament, which has been taped for decades during a dictatorship, and you are now putting at risk that it can continue to have legislative capacity with its irresponsibility; you are placing Parliament out of the law. I say to him: those of us who respect democracy, those who are aware, even if we do not live it, of what it cost in this country to overcome a Franco dictatorship of forty years we have so much respect for the ballot boxes with guarantees that we will not participate in any process that violates the rights of Catalans. You are not going to get away with it, because democracy, fortunately, has mechanisms to defend itself...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.501.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.502.0	... – yes, I'm finished right now, Madam President – democracy has mechanisms to defend itself from the rulers who want to abuse it and therefore you are not going to get your solution, your magic solution, your promises. But in the meantime you are doing a lot of damage to Catalans, a lot of damage to Catalonia. I tell you, we'll meet at the polls, at the polls with guarantees. And I am convinced that after this black stage we will be able to have an alternative in Catalonia that thinks of all Catalans, that it values the legislative capacity of this Parliament and, above all – above all – that it regains common sense both in the Government of the Generalitat and in the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.503.0	Finally, the proposing groups have a final turn to indicate the items they admit. It has the word, in the first place, the lady Anna Gabriel, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.504.0	Yeah. We didn't think we'd be back, because we've put together all the intervention in the initial intervention. And if we had known that we had a turn, the truth is that we would have given it to the Catalonian company Yes, it may not have been able to express themselves before. [[Greetings.]] In any case...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.505.0	Mrs. Gabriel, the proposing groups always have a final turn to say the exams they admit. The one that happens, that's a two-minute turn; it's very short, but they have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.506.0	Perfect – perfect. Very briefly. I give up the word to position myself on the items in the Junts for the Yes, and the time remaining, if you can take advantage of it by Catalonia's companies Yes, it is Pot, that they do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.507.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. The word "Mr. Corominas", from the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.508.0	Very, very briefly. We reaffirm the text presented, with the papers presented jointly with the CUP - Constituent Call. And, therefore, we will only vote in favour of these. All right, all right, We give up time, obviously, as the CUP also proposed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.509.0	Mr. Rodriguez is asking for the word. Why ask me the word, Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.510.0	So, it was, precisely, since they were positioned on the exams, to announce that our group withdraws the exams that have been presented. And that's why we thought it was appropriate to do it first. I also take advantage of the word twist to ask for a separate vote. In this sense, we would call for a separate vote from Chapter VII, which is what makes reference to the Electoral Administration. This is because, while the law in many cases assumes modification of the Statute and violation of the Constitution, specifically Chapter VII, referring to the Electoral Administration, we understand that it is basic development of the Statute, which in its article 56.2 establishes that the electoral regime must be approved for a special quorum of this chamber of two thirds. Therefore, asking for this separate vote, what we want is to visualize whether or not this special quorum is achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.511.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.512.0	Yeah, for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.513.0	We have Mr. Giner's pending intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.514.0	Excuse me?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.515.0	That we have Mr. Giner's pending intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.516.0	Yeah. We also want to announce the withdrawal of the amendments and also to announce that we will not be taking part in the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.517.0	In any case, the Lord... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We gave the three-minute turn to Mr. Albano Dante Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.518.0	President, unfortunately we do not have enough time to explain the nuances in our vote. Simply a reflection. After what happened in this Parliament today, I think it's more than ever the day to remember that whoever has to take Catalonia's future at hand is the people and not a parliament that many times is not the height of the situation. So, let's see October 1st. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.519.0	Thank you. Once the debate is over we call for a vote. [[The deputies of the parliamentary groups of Ciutadans, Socialist and the People's Party of Catalonia leave the Sessions Hall. The members of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia leave flags of Catalonia and Spain in their seats.]] We shall proceed to the vote. In the first place, we will vote... Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.520.0	I'm sorry, President, but I have a doubt – it's a point of order – if you could clarify...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.521.0	I suppose that's the separate vote on Chapter VII...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.522.0	Separated. Because, since the parliamentary group...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.523.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.524.0	...that interested him, so it seems that it is not left to the vote, we...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.525.0	We've been asking the secretary general and the caster.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.526.0	Okay. The decision I take will seem right, but it seemed interesting to say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.527.0	Totally fine. You don't feel like doing the separate vote on Chapter VII and so... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Excuse me. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] I've been wrong one more time, now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.528.0	Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.529.0	Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.530.0	...with all institutional respect: once you can be wrong; if sometimes in a day, I already start to think that you're playing something a little special, but go... No, to ask you, if you please, as a function, I believe, of Rule 86 of the House Rules, which you proceeded to read Article 56 of the Statute, which refers to the issue of the necessary quorum that requires everything that affects electoral legislation and specifically the Electoral Union, eh? ; that we're talking..., it's the one talking about the two thirds. And, therefore, I believe that it must be submitted to a separate vote. Well, if you don't want to read it, it's the same. I demand that this concrete apartment is voted for separately, because we are convinced that it requires two thirds, ninety deputies... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] If that sounds good to you, huh? If not, I don't... [[Widow's remorse.]] You'll do whatever you want, I mean... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.531.0	Mr. Coscubala, have you asked for the separate vote on Chapter VII?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.532.0	Yes, of which it refers to the whole issue of electoral administration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.533.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.534.0	I'm sorry, more. Yes, yes: electoral union. I'm sorry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.535.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.536.0	I'm a little..., huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.537.0	All right, then. [[Àngels Martínez Castells withdraws the Spanish flags from the escons of the deputies of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. Greetings.]] Mrs. Martinez... Mrs. Martínez! Please! Mrs. Martinez, please, I left the flags where they were. [[Pause.]] In any case, it must be repositioned. [[Widow's remorse.]] That the Uixers are doing it, please. Let's continue with the vote. The exams... okay, so. Can the papers presented in the section be voted on together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I'm asking if you review them..., taking into account that the People's Party of Catalonia has withdrawn the reviews and also the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans has withdrawn the reviews. Therefore, no, these are not voting. And now: is there any reason that you can vote together or do we vote separately for the registry number? [[Pause.]] In the first place, therefore, we vote for the motion tabled for the Member not registered with registry number 68705. The vote begins. The item with register 68,705_was approved by 1 vote in favour, 71 against and 11 abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He's left... – he's forgiven – rejected. [[The president laughs.]] Rejected by 1 vote in favour, 71 against and 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the joint proposal for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, which has the number 68,706. The vote begins. The statements were approved by 71 votes in favour, against and 12 abstentions. Then we will vote for the slogan of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot with the register number 68,711. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 8 votes to 71, with 3 abstentions. We shall then vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group with a register number 68,712. The vote begins. The item was rejected by a vote in favour, 72 against and 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the rest of the text of the bill, that is, the part of the text that has not been edited. The vote begins. The Proposal for a Self-Determination Referendum Law was approved by 72 votes in favour, against and 11 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats. The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Decree Law 5/2017 of August 1, urgent measures for the ordering of passenger transport services in vehicles to new places]] [[203-00012/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2017, August 1, of urgent measures for the ordering of passenger transport services in vehicles to new places. In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, hereby submits this decree. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.538.0	President, ladies and gentlemen, we are a governing government. I am very honoured to be able to speak after this moment so transcendent of the history of our nation, of the history of Catalonia. But the day by day that affects important sectors of our country continues and, therefore, obviously, both the Government and Parliament, we must be able to give answers at the time of regulating a certain sector. In this concrete case, we present this decree that we ask the chamber that can validate. We are talking about a decree regulating the VT and VTC sectors, the taxi sector and the sector of vehicles of less than nine seats, vehicles of lloguer with driver. The basic element of this initiative is to combat unfair competition, intrusion in this sector, straighten it out, and do it quickly and permanently. And I'll explain exactly what the layout is. First, we must be able to hear exactly what it is that corresponds to the taxi sector, what it is that corresponds to and how the driver's vehicle logger is designed, and, for another band, what is not express, which regulates this law, of collaborative economy. When the taxi does taxi and the VTCs do VTC there must be no conflict. The problem is when these drivers' vehicles pretend or try to do exactly the same thing the taxi does. The main difference is that drivers' vehicles are not subject to any tariff regime, taximeters, or regulation of their journey. In fact, the current legislation establishes that the contract, in this concrete case, must take place before the service is completed. Therefore, this activity cannot last long with cars running and retrieving customers, or for example at ports or airports, unless there is this prior contract. This is the basic element. And, on the other hand, the regulations in force at these times establish that there must be a proportion of a VTC, a driver's lloger vehicle, for thirty taxi calls. Why did we impose a decree on you, therefore, that there is an emergency and exceptional urgency? This is before the existence of a legal emptiness – a legal emptiness. For three years there has been a legal vacuum in the Spanish state, which has meant that various companies have been requesting authorizations from VTC, the settlement of which is now pending judicial decision. We are talking about Catalonia facing the possibility of three thousand new VTC lawsuits, eight hundred of which have been requested for the same company. Not with the will to plan to offer a service in terms of what strictly are the VTCs, but with a will that is purely speculative. What, then, is the settlement of this law? It's very simple. Four objectives. First: the authorizations of vehicles to lodge with a driver domiciled in Catalonia can only be transmitted past two years from their jamming. What's the point, what's the end? That you can't speculate. This is the concrete objective. I mean, if you get these licenses to strictly do VTC, there's no problem, there's no problem. The problem when these claims were obtained with the sole purpose of making a transmission. That's it. And I talk to them, I insist, I return them to give this given: one company has asked for eight hundred lawsuits that by judicial decision they can end up getting. If they operate these lawsuits, no problem; if they want to transfer them, then there is this two-year period that prevents this transmission from happening. The second: it will create an electronic register to which the companies that manage VTC – vehicles of lloguer with driver – will have to communicate the services that they have planned to provide, accrediting their previous contract. Thus, you will have to facilitate the data of the contractor and the service provider, the place, the date of conclusion of the contract, the full route with the time, date, the place of initiation and the end of the service. What's the point? Prevent these types of vehicles from catching passengers while travelling along the road or while parking in ports, airports or train stations. Remember what I was saying? Taxis fan taxis, VTCs fan VTCs. Third objective: to make mandatory a distinctive attachment to the right bottom of the front windscreen of the vehicle. Purpose: to facilitate the task of inspection and combat against professional intrusion in this concrete case. The fourth: we rule, we establish a whole sanctioning rule. The most important thing I would like to highlight is that VTC companies with authority in other territories of the State that offer more than 20_percent of their services to Catalonia will have a penalty of four_000_euros. When there's a big event, it's logical that there's this supply of vehicles to meet with a driver from other territories, but not with ordinary character. These, then, are the basic elements on which this decree is based that we ask them to validate. But the last question we want to share from the government with you, what we want, is also to help make a modernization at the heart of the taxi sector. We ask the taxi that it is modern, but in changing the legislation it is of such an exceptional rigidity that it prevents it from being able to apply, hard to term technological better than in these moments of other plataforms they do due to term. And, therefore, it is not object of this decree, but object of a decree that we are working from the government, a decree with a regulatory rank, that what they claim is to open debates. For example, individual hire and charging; or shared use of taxi services, to be more competitive; integration of the taxi into the public service system; taxi on demand, which is so important in a part of Catalonia's national territory; or the collection of passengers outside the scope of the contract in pre-contractual terms; or early payment and persuasive service; or priority of the health taxi; or the incorporation of new technologies, or – I am looking at what was the rapporteur of the climate change law – the environment of the fleets and the reduction of emissions. This is what we put on the table, this is the reason why we have this decision. Because we have also found ourselves, and I will end with this argument, that these three-thousand lawsuits can come from a judicial decision, but there are some judgments that are already giving, as a precautionary measure, a prior authorization for the duration of this VTC operation, even though there is no firm judicial resolution. And, therefore, we had to make a very quick decision, very forceful, very peremptory, in this sense. That's what we want to do for a living. It's one more step, but obviously it's not the last objective. Among all that we want is that there is a serious regulation, that makes the country mogui in terms of modernization of this sector and legal security, of everyone, of which are the taxi sector, but also the VTC sector, which works properly with the legislation in force at these times. They ask, therefore, on behalf of the Government, that they can endorse the validation of this decree. Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.539.0	Thank you, Counselor. For the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word the deputy Marina Bravo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.540.0	Thank you. Deputies, deputies, councillors, here we debate the desirability of validating a decree law that, as the councillor has well explained, which does so very didactically, moreover, basically contemplates three points – well, four with the sanctioner. The first is the two-year moratorium on the sale of permits, which aims to curb possible speculation, with which we fully agree. Authorizations have to be requested to work, not for anything else. The second is the creation of a register of the Administration to which all the data of each service must be incorporated prior to making the data. In this case, the purpose of this registration is not so clear, since these data, already today, have to be made available to the Administration at any time, and are registered with the service providers. And a third is the mark, the identification of the vehicles, with a badge that allows you to more easily control the intrusion that may be. We don't have a problem with that either. And it's curious, because of these three measures, these three points, we hadn't heard of the counselor before. The Minister for Development has, by the way, spoken about these points, and it seems that he is also going to legislate on this. But since the councillor's office, since the department, they haven't told us anything. We were called before August, yes for other things, for example, to sign as proposals of law things that were to be bills – the next point of the plenary speaks precisely of that – but on 31 July we had not been told anything, and the decree was signed on 1 August. And that is that this is a government that does not have an absolute majority in this Parliament, which requires the rest of the groups to carry out any legislation. And I think it's a good day to remember that not even with the CUP, not even adding the votes of Junts for Yes and the CUP, represent the majority of the citizens of Catalonia. I think it's a good day to remember. And I think that, on its own, makes any decree of law, anything they intend to take out, so it will be good for them to at least comment on it before with the first group of the opposition, or with others, with whom I believe they have not spoken either. It's not the way, we think. The bottom, on the bottom we also have certain doubts. There is a report from the Acco, a couple of days ago, which you must know, which is very critical with these measures. It is critical, among other things, that the Government of Catalonia has not exercised all the powers it has in this matter, which could have legislated much more to try, therefore, to correct, some defects in the state legislation, with which it is also very critical. We too are, we are critical of state legislation; we believe that many of the changes in the first place that have to be made is precisely in Congress. There, in a treatment of a GNP, we already tabled an amendment which said that it should be reviewed in the legal framework for the management of land transport in order to strengthen legal certainty and competition in the urban transport sector and to improve the protection of users' rights. We have already said this in Congress: there is a need for profound reform in Congress, at the first place where we should talk, and many of the aspects on which we can regulate, so you have already mentioned them here yourself. We gave some clues, such as, for example, that the prior appointment of a mediator would be interesting, since it has been allowed to pass the time until the conflict already exists, which could, this mediator, clearly define which benefits are of an exclusive nature of the taxi service. And, on the other hand, it would also be interesting, because, as you said, open up the possibilities that this sector has to be more competitive. Transport is evolving, freight logistics, for example, has changed a lot and urban and long-distance mobility as well. The options are multiplying: new technologies, among other things, but not just them. New technologies open up a world of possibilities. And I'm not just talking about attracting clients that's been motivating this whole conflict lately. There are many possibilities ahead of us. He mentioned some of them. And I'm thinking, for example, about buses that pass near a municipality and that with an app we can get them into it to pick up people. Or I'm thinking, as they already take advantage of us in some countries, in door-to-door services where you pay a single ticket from your door to your destination and a taxi comes to pick you up, takes you to the train, you get to the final station and from there they take you to your destination or on foot or with another mode of transport. All these possibilities are open thanks to new technologies and many other advances. And we believe that the taxi sector can be very relevant in this field, that it is very important to boost what and that there has a chance, not only to be competitive, but even to enhance itself. We go late and work against clocks, as is being done with this decree of law, with the regulations that the government will also take out, because that is where we also believe it is going later, has the inconvenience that it is difficult to analyze the deep and the debate, because we have to take quick steps. We're late and that's bad overall, but it also has some advantages. It has advantages that other countries, elsewhere in the world, have already been legislated ahead of us. And that can serve us, therefore, in some cases to explain how we can do it in places where there is balance and it is working properly: it is working well for the citizens and there has been no loss of rights, neither labor nor social. And it also allows us to see, therefore, other cases to which we do not want to seem at all and that we will have to be very careful so that we do not end up being like them. What we like is what we were saying, the one that the countries, some countries, are taking, in which they are betting on that integral mobility that we were talking about – full tickets, door to door, a la carte services. In this sector, in that type of integrated mobility in which we think the taxi not only has room, but can be enhanced, strengthened, and we believe it is very important that the taxi sector participates in all these changes that have to be made. We cannot give up opportunities for improvement and regulatory legislation must ensure, where necessary, the necessary economic balance. That is why it is important that we begin to legislate as soon as possible and that is why we have already said this in Congress. You're gonna have to listen a lot to the cab sector because he... the one who's most interested is right now for everything he's got at stake. In this case, the decree, this one, to the sector it regulated was that of the VTCs and it would also have been quite interesting to have spoken with them a little more, which does not seem to have been done. We would have liked to have been able to speak before this decree. But, since it has not been done, we will ask that it be treated as a bill. Because there are already some questions on which we have doubts that we would like them to be better defined – for example, in that register. And there are others that we even believe can be improved to ensure more that you do not speculate with those licenses, as the object of point 1. We will not vote against it, but we will ask them to let us be treated as a bill. We hope that we will not be denied this possibility of debate and we can make this decree law an even more useful tool than it purports to be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.541.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. For the Socialist Party's Parliamentary Group, Mr Jordi Terrades has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.542.0	Mr. President... Mr. Counsellor, Members, Members, some... – I will try not to exhaust the time of my intervention –, some ideas around this decree that the government today leads us to validate. I have already announced, from the outset, that we will give support to the law decree and that, moreover, we will not give support to this decree being passed as a bill of law, and I will explain the reasons to the final part of my intervention. We believe that... well, we don't think so, the Catalonian State of Autonomy says, that Catalonia has exclusive powers to regulate the transportation of passengers, and that is what the Government of the Generality is proposing to us at these times. So let's say, counselor, that, before the conflict we've had or have, the government has been slow to react and fix some regulations or regulations on the conflict that we are currently living between the taxi sector, which is a very regulated sector – that even we have a law, in Catalonia, which regulates it – and a new mode of transportation of passengers, the VTCs, and that break out just because society is changing, because the new technologies are also interacting in public transportation of passengers, right? Here we have found ourselves or we can find ourselves..., I think it is certain the measure adopted by the decree of the government to avoid..., because we have a peril, the peril is that through judicial means and through the holes of the norm it is possible to grant thousands of VTC lawsuits that also affected Catalonia, our country. Some with clear ends, from our point of view, speculative, huh? , to have an application and then I'll pass it on, won't I? , to a third. I believe that the future law, which I will talk about later, will have to try to limit these things. Because we are talking about public concessions, in this sector, but also in the taxi sector, and, therefore, like the public concession, what we cannot allow is that it is speculating on lawsuits that bind the Administration. Therefore, we believe it is certain that the Government of the Generalitat intends to prevent, before this possible eruption, that by judicial means we can find, from VTC claims, which can be transmitted to third parties, playing or trying to remove 'economic revenues, from these claims. We also believe that the second point of the decree, which is this electronic management, the telematics of VTC vehicles, gives that they have a function and a regulation different from that of the taxi. And if we agree that this massive burst of this new mode of transport is produced by the new technologies, which cannot be intended to function as if there were no such new technologies. This is the contradiction that we find ourselves and that some of these VTC operators – I won't talk about any name in concrete – so they want to delete, right? So, we're here because the new technologies are a reality now, but we want to function as if we're in the 20th century. That can't be it, can it? What do we think? That this decree does not stop being a joke with a problem that we have; a problem that we will have to address, a problem that we will have to reflect on, because there are not only the interests of the taxi sector, there are not only the interests of the VTCs, but there are also the interests of the users, which we will have to take into account. Counselor, I don't know what will happen in the future, in the immediate future, if there are elections, there won't be, if there is a new government, as a result of these parliamentary elections, when they are. What I do know is that in the next year, year and a half, two years as much, Catalonia, the Government of the Generality and all the parliamentary groups we have of..., and the whole sector, huh? , the taxi sector, the transport sector to new travellers, users too, we will have to reflect and we will have to have a new legislative instrument, a new law that will finally regulate this issue. And it is for this final reason that we believe that the law decree is not to be dealt with as a normal bill, but that what we need to do, already, and address it, is a deep debate on a new law governing the transportation of passengers in our country. Thank you, President, Members, Members.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.543.0	Thank you, Congressman. It has the word the deputy of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, the lady Hortènsia Grau. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He's here – he's here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.544.0	Good night, counselor, deputies, deputies, resisters here... Well, let's go to the issue of validation or not of this decree law, which was approved by the Generality at a time of pressure from the taxi sector. In July, we remembered that representatives of Elite Taxi and other trade unions were occupying the councilhouse, with threats that if this was not the resolution, they would be vague... This was to be resolved, because here we had already gathered all the spokespersons of the parliamentary groups and it was a matter that was hot since the beginning of completion... well, the courts had begun to rule on this matter of the same law that grants the lawsuits. Therefore, I believe that the fruit of this pressure and of this rush and currents, therefore, the department, well done – the counselor said – has had to act and has made this decree. Therefore, this decree, let's say that it does not address the whole problem, it is an emergency, an emergency, to say: "Well, let's go see how we resolve it, but it does not address everything there is on this subject. We consider this positive, that it is intended to give an answer to this problem, derived from when it was attempted to liberalize the sector; because, you see, the VTCs were overcrowded, there were those that were there, and it was from the 2009 bus and the subsequent sentences, right? But, even though, well, it's positive, we think that the decree also has some shortcomings, that it's a first step, and that, besides, that even more in this VTC issue there's a bit of competitive embolism, because it also regulates the State, the State is also laying down itself that it has to regulate... Anyway, we'll try to analyze the articles. You see, from Article 1, that it's about the transmission of authorizations, it's positive, that measure, that it can't be transferred before two years, so it's a little bit what we're talking about that speculation, isn't it? , the companies that will stay many and that now want to negotiate. But we believe that it is only a first measure, which is short if it is not accompanied, I mean, if it is not accompanied by other measures as well; for example, the possibility of revoking authorizations or even the possibility of intransmissibility. And here, of course, the assemblies have a lot to say, and the metropolitan area has a lot to say in this sense. Because in the end we know that there are VTCs that in the metropolitan territory are made of urban services; that is to say, they have origin and destination in the same metropolitan area. Clearly, if that's the case, the assemblies, the metropolitan area, which are the competitions, should be able to tell you something. So – and I understand that I'm studying the metropolitan area – somehow they're falling apart..., not the decree, huh? , but the state regulations are invading some competitions, in urban transport, that would correspond to the assemblies; as at least, when a fan of urban service. So, in this state law, you'll also need to study what paper, right? They'll have to hold the joints and see if there's actually this invasion of competition. And in this sense, in the decree, we believe that in this article it could have been taken advantage of to place for example that when there are VTCs that make urban services with origin and destination to the same people have to ask for some type of law, to ask for some type of municipal authority. In this way the municipalities as a minimum could decide which contingent of VTC vehicles can assume, until where: if three hundred... – well, now we know that there are three hundred pendants–, how many they can assume; because at the end we are talking about vehicles that are in the city, and this also has to do with what we have approved of climate change and with the whole of the transport service. For what it does in Article 2, relating to the electronic communications register, we consider that it is an important advance, but it also raises, as it is here, a pair of doubts or problems, which I believe have already appeared at the meeting of the Català Board of Taxis. One is what we do about confidentiality and the possible violation of the Data Protection Act. That's why we here, counselor, would ask that, since it's done as decreed and it's not a bill of law, as at least there may be some report from the Catalan Data Protection Agency or some advice in this regard. Because, of course, this register that says my name, my address, where I go, where I leave myself, where I win, it's... well, we think it could end up breaking... And then there is another theme: this software, how long it will take us to implement it. Because, of course, it's a technological software that at the technological level has a certain complexity and, therefore, this can extend its implementation over time. So, I think we'll have to look at it. In Article 4, the sanctioning regime. Clearly, to apply this sanctioning regime, and as is the additional one, it will need to change – because it also affects the taxi, the additional one – some aspects of the Taxi Act and the Road Travel Regulation Act. And, of course, there's a part of this sanctioning rule that's a little toast to the sun, counselor, because, when you say this 20_per_cent, you say, "When there's a 20_per_cent that you've done outside the autonomous community... How do we do it? We will need to talk to the other autonomous communities, establish that they will notify us of the others... I don't know, there will have to be some kind of communication with the other autonomous communities to know if these VTCs are actually making 20_percent of the outside services. Therefore, it will be necessary to see regularly, as we wear it or as we do because you are operating. I, lastly, commenting on the additional provision. To us – that maybe it's my problem, huh? , of interpretation – as it is written, it is not clear to us whether the obligation to communicate to the register the collection of passengers outside the municipality – this in the case of the taxi, not the VTs that can go to the port or airport –, which says that it is for the companies holding licenses and authorizations, if here they are included also the autonomes. Suppose yes, it will not only affect businesses that have taxis, but it will affect businesses and taxis. So, for the sake of clarity and legal certainty, it might have been a matter of form, right? , formally, to clarify this, because it is as it is written in the decree– I suppose because it was urgent – says the law-holders and the authorities, and, of course, there have been and have been autonomous undertakings. Therefore, I think that would be useful to clarify. And now, finally, and more political courage, we will endorse the decree, but we think it would be a good thing to be able to improve... Well, I don't know if in the framework of this decree, but we have to touch many aspects, because we have realities – the Navy Bravo and the Jordi Terrades have explained it very well – we have Cabify, we have Uber, we have the shit that has also happened with the taxi licenses... The taxi bill is from 2003. The reality has changed: we have a climate change law, we have a bet for public transportation to the city... And we believe that this may be necessary, first of all, to follow this decree with all the agents, all those who have legitimate interests and who have not felt sufficiently escorted– is to say, VTC, metropolitan area, also taxi–, to do some table or some follow-up commission to see the decree. And, on the other hand, maybe it's time to face... just like we did last year's legislature, right? Which we did with the Transport Finance Act, so now we're dealing with what's going on with the Road Travel Act, which is a law of '87. And, counselor, from '87 there's been a lot going on here. And maybe now is the time, as long as we have this, to clarify it. Therefore, we will give support to the decree. How do we trust, counselor – because at least this has been your country until now, or your department's – that they will do this follow-up with all interested parties, we will not ask that it is passed as the bill of law and we will not vote for it, but we will ask this: the data protection report and that there is this committee, table, follow-up table of all this. And, well, I don't know if this legislature, because nobody knows how it's going to end, or how it's going to end, that we're going to undertake a review of the transport of road haulage passengers. Many thanks, counselor, deputies, deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.545.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Te la parula, for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia, Mr Alberto Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.546.0	Yes, Vice-President, Counsellor, Members, briefly. You bring us here the validation of the decree law that you presented as a matter of urgency, and an urgency that we do not understand. Yes, we can agree that the passenger transport sector has to be regulated, which affects both VTCs and taxis, but it has to be regulated well. And it is true that VTCs and taxis can compete for a market sector that is where the conflict is. And the taxi is true that it has other markets, and in the end the great part of the taxi market is the public road, they are the taxi stops, it is the request on the public road of a service, but they compete in that part where new technologies and computer applications are used. But the problem is not two days ago, Mr. Counsellor, the problem is a long time ago, it is a long time ago, and, therefore, it could have been handled much better and not rushed – which I will then explain where the hurry comes from. Let's go to the cab. The taxi, really, the problem doesn't have it with the VTCs. Historically, the taxi has it with its relationship with the Administration, and, for example, in the case of the metropolitan area, with the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, because the taxi has treated it unfairly. When he had a problem, he was told that he was a private person, a self-employed person, a company; but when prices had to be controlled, the fee market was treated as a public service. And, therefore, the real problem with the taxi sector is that he is a prisoner of the Administration. That's right, the taxi has always tried to have a positive attitude, trying to explain that it could participate in new markets. You were talking about one, the health taxi, for example. They thus offered new market opportunities. And in the end it is true that for them they can have greater economic profitability – something logical and normal – and on the other hand also give greater service to the citizen. And they have also always asked, therefore, to be able to participate in what is advertising, in order to have greater income. We see these positions as logical, because in the end, if they have higher incomes, it is when the Administration can ask for an effort, as it has been asked during all these years, so that the rates do not increase. What has been the result? Quite the opposite. He is asked to make that effort, not to increase tariffs, but, yes, the market is totally constrained by the public administration, and therefore the situation of the taxi is totally unfair. But to you, as an administration, as a government – especially the municipalities, but also in the Generalitat – the problem between the taxi sector and the VTC has gone very well, because while these two sectors were fighting nobody remembered that the real problem came with the Administration. And you in the month of August present a decree, in the month of August, with nightiness and lightness. What is the problem in presenting this decree in August? That you have a problem, that's that you didn't want a taxi strike on October 1; that's your problem. The representative of Catalonia has said it before Yes that it is Pot : there have been demonstrations, occupations of the council..., and you are afraid of the strike of October 1. Therefore, the criterion is political. And they've done things wrong again. Because the normal thing, when a law is processed, is to listen to the parties: the experts, the sector, the political groups. No one has been heard here – no one – and the normal thing is to do what I have explained to you. I'll give you two examples. To buy electric guns, Taser, we've had six months of commission, six months. Or, for example, to pass the law of cannabic clubs and entities, this Parliament has passed the whole cannabic sector of Catalonia and part of that of Spain, and they have been heard. Hey, that's good. But, yes, the taxi and VTC sector has not been heard. And neither do the groups. And this is an important issue, this is an important issue, because we are talking about the future of people transport, a public service, the future of new markets, such as VTCs, and the future of the traditional market, of which I believe we have to be proud as a society, of taxis. That is why, as they do without listening to the sector, experts, or groups, we are going to ask that it be treated as a bill, in order to try to do things right. And, moreover, I have coincided with some of the things Mrs Grau said, that this decree does not well define some very important issues. And I'll just give you two examples, to cut short. They're talking about the record, what kind of record is it going to be? Do you have it in mind? And, above all, who will be responsible for this record? Who will have access to that data? and they don't make any mention of the Data Protection Act when we talk about registration. A mistake. And the other is when you talk about not being able to transmit the licenses of the VTC for two years, which we would agree on, to avoid speculation in the sale of licenses, but without establishing any kind of exception, for example, for reasons arising. This, in any law, is something of a drawer: why not be able to make a transmission before two years because of death, serious illness, home transfer...? He doesn't talk about exceptions. And this, in almost every law, exists. Therefore, you present a decree law by the back door, in August, without listening to the parties, without talking to political groups and with an undefined content. And as we want things to be done right, I say to him: even if we agree in substance, that this has to be regulated, we will propose that it be treated as a bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.547.0	Thank you, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, has the word "Mr Sergi Saladié de la Candidature d'Unitat Popular - Crida Constituent". Are you going to talk about the escó estant? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.548.0	All right, thank you, President. Good night to everyone. Briefly, we announce the negative vote of our parliamentary group on this validation of the law decree, basically because we have collected the position of the most combative sector of the taxi, concretely of the CNT, of the taxi sector, especially of the metropolis. And above all, referring to two articles: the first, in relation to the transmission of VTC authorizations, we seem that the two-year period that is proposed is insufficient. And, above all, bearing in mind that those who buy these claims are normally multinationals who have already made a great deal of pressure on this sector of the taxi and who have already taken a good share of the passenger market and, above all, engaged in legal and subterfuge emptiness, to which from the different administrations we understand that they do not want to face up, until now, in a way, as has also been explained, therefore, urgently and in full August. I, in accordance with Article 2, in relation to the electronic register of communications from the driver's service, do not consider that specific control guarantees are sufficiently and effective for VTCs; they do not detect sufficient means to make these guarantees effective. All that this decree proposes is that we understand that it will not prevent the continued exercise of this unfair competition from VTC companies with respect to the taxi; at the moment the reasonable proportion of a VTC for every thirty taxi licenses is increased, and, taking into account above all that in the current situation they are already operating twice as much of VTC as the same law currently in force, therefore, allows, without any control that prevents it. And for all these questions raised by this decree, which we seem to be clearly insufficient, we will vote against the validation of this decree. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.549.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.550.0	Thank you, President. In any case, and bearing in mind the explanation already, the illustrative explanation that the councillor has made about this decree, we will not be looking at running out of time, but in any case we would like to make a certain explanation of why from our parliamentary group we support this measure, and because we understand that..., despite some criticisms that have emerged from the rest of the parliamentary groups, we thought that this should be done. As the Councillor explained, the situation in the taxi and VTC sectors is a conflict, it is a situation, let's say, that it has generated a certain conflict, as well as initially, when the taxi sector or the taxi fares are intended for a potential public and the VTC charges are intended for another potential public, in principle all this allows for a harmonious coexistence, certainly not free of some episodes, but in any case allow there to be a certain coexistence between the two sectors. The entry of the new technologies and especially the legal void left by the Government of the State in its moment allows there to be three_ thousand potential VTC lawsuits, which generate a problem, generate a concern at the level of the taxi sector. And, therefore, from this point of view it begins to create a certain discomfort at the social level, and we can see, let's say, the conflict exists in this case, which has grown and, therefore, in conflicts, especially when there have been great events in the city of Barcelona, is where this conflict has arisen to the maximum extent, but we understand that it can go further. We believe that the mechanism of the decree was the useful mechanism, necessary to regulate, let's say, this situation immediately. We believe that what has been achieved by passing this decree is to arrive at a point of tranquility in the sector, which fills an existing standard void, as has been said before, and resolves some of the issues that were of concern. Obviously... and here some parliamentary groups say that it is not properly regulated or that, in any case, there are elements that have not been taken into account. And this is the will: it really has gone to touch the slightest aspect, because ultimately the figure of the decree law is an extraordinary legislative figure that, in any case, does not serve to regulate everything, but it has to serve to give way to some very provisional situations that exist. And, therefore, this is what the government has done in this situation, going to touch on those aspects, four aspects in concrete, which concerned the sector and which, therefore, was intended to give a solution. Therefore, let us say, the subject of the transmission of claims cannot be done until two years; the creation of the electronic register for the journeys, as a means of control; and the distinction, and also that sanctioning regime. Beyond that, we are also supporters, and we have shared it and we share it with other parliamentary groups, that this or this decree does not close anything, in any case, gives a timely solution to an existing problem, but what we need to do is a debate, a debate on the merits, a debate that takes into account the various aspects. We need a debate. Someone pointed out that they have appeared on other occasions in different sectors; therefore, this is what needs to be done in this area: debate, which is attended by the people of the taxi, which is also attended by the people of the VTC sector and from this point of view we can make a debate enough to regulate this situation, which has changed over time. It is obvious that there are some questions that change, the uses, the changes in the mobility uses of the citizenry are making there appear to be new needs among the citizens who did not exist for quite some time. Therefore, let's say, from this point of view we need to analyze it, from the current point of view. It is also clear that the entry of the new technologies makes it necessary to rethink this element too, as they facilitate, the new technologies, the contact between the offer and the demand and, therefore, we also have to regulate it. We have to have a margin for regulation. What we can't leave is, tell us, that this is a jungle, as some pretend..., which some have an interest in that there is no type of regulation. Because there's one thing that's important that we think we need to defend, that's users' rights. And these user rights... a good user service can't be done unless there's a regulation that controls these uses. For..., some questions that concerned some of the parliamentary groups, let's say, pointed to a lack of dialogue on the part of the council. We understand that this decree counts on the support of the entities, of the administrations involved in the regulation of the whole issue of mobility and the taxi, such as the Barcelona City Council or the Metropolitan Area. Therefore, here there was an imperative need to give solution, and here there is an agreement. This agreement is also explained to the Taxi Board. Therefore, advertising has indeed been given. He's explained himself to the sector, and anyway, that's what he's been trying to do. It's true, we insist – and the councilman has committed himself to it – and, in any case, there is this will: a legal void has been filled at a concrete moment, but, in any case, the will of the council, as has been shown enough is that there is a will of dialogue to open up and discuss about what the future of the taxi should be in its conjunction and the transport of road passengers from these smaller vehicles of new places. And then, some of the elements that we may also be concerned about and that have certainly not remained well established in the law decree..., in fact, the same decree empowers the Government of the Generality because, from this point of view, you make a regulatory deployment of the same law decree. And some questions that concern the registry, the control of the registry, the Data Protection Act, these sure questions that can be well looked at and resolved through this regulatory deployment, because it is obvious that the Data Protection Act governs, let's say, any action. And what's obvious... what's supposed to be is a control over this performance. VTCs have a very scaly standard_frame, but in any case, it remains very clear that they can't pick up the path to the street. And, therefore, it is necessary to make clear which services you serve are complete and which instructions you have. For my part, nothing more, and many thanks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.551.0	Thank you, Mr. Bloods. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Pause.]] Let us then proceed to the vote on the validation of Decree Law 5/2017. The vote begins. The Decree Law 5/2017, of urgent measures for the ordering of passenger transport services in vehicles to new places, has been validated by 86 votes in favour, 10 against and 35 abstentions. Then, according to Rule 155.4 of the Rules of Procedure, once the law decree has been validated, I ask the chamber whether any parliamentary group wants this law decree to be passed as a draft law. [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa... would you like to? Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.552.0	We are interested in what is being done as the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.553.0	And the group? [[Pause.]] Also. In any case, therefore, with the petitions, we shall vote for the parliamentary groups whether this decree is to be dealt with as a bill of law or not. Therefore, the vote begins. The result was: 35 votes in favour, along with the draft law, 86 against and 10 abstentions. At this result, this decree will not be treated as the bill. Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. Yeah. Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.554.0	I would like to know the schedule of the plenary. Seeing what time it is, the order of the day we have... [[remorse of the voice]] We'd love to know how we'd do it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To the Lords of Junts for the Yes I want to remind them that who changed the order of the day was you, huh? [[Greetings.]] Now the points of the order of the day that was there are being dealt with.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.555.0	Mrs. Granados, we'll move as far as we can, and now we're going to do the next point of the order of the day. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, we have a plan to do this point, which we'll start now, and the next one. Okay? [[Pause.]] [[Proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency (totality debate)]] [[202-00061/11]] The third item on the agenda is: totality debate on the proposal for the creation law of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, and given that it is a legislative initiative signed by three parliamentary groups, they will present their presentation to the three groups who propose the law for a maximum of two minutes each. In the first place, has the word Mr Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence to continue with the order of the day.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.556.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, Catalonia has a close link between people and natural spaces. The take advantage of the territory and its natural resources has been a constant one. We are a small country, and this is the link that has shaped the territory. It is also true that the rapid transformation of the last decades has put territorial balance and conservation of natural heritage at risk. Socialists believe that conservation of natural heritage is a benefit for everyone. It is a natural heritage policy that takes advantage of the enormous advantages that proper management brings, both in the field of socio-economic development and in a good functioning of the territory, which, in short, contribute, both things, to improving the welfare of people. Countries like the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, France, to name but a few, have a powerful natural heritage policy that has turned it into a first-tier economic activity. And why is it necessary to preserve natural heritage and biodiversity? We could list a number of reasons, I will mention only three of them: as a dynamotizer of local economies, and, therefore, avoid the abandonment of the territory; as one of the main sources of goods and environmental services we have, which in terms of national comptability can be equated to the GDP of our country, and because it is instrumental in dealing with climate change. To make politically correct speeches in favour of the environment, in defense of natural heritage values or biodiversity, of the fight against climate change, is easy. Now, when it comes to making concrete policies, when it comes to making decisions, when it comes to allocating resources, there are more difficulties. Just two years ago, the Socialist Group asked the Territorial Councillor about these questions and approved a motion for a large majority. It's true that the legislature is over. But, look, it's been two years, today we find ourselves here starting this debate that has cost God and help. To start a new stage, which I think we need to start – let's hope this is the case – we need to say, for that reason, some things. What happened in the last seven years? Thus, there has been a fragmentation of competition, planning and management; that, in general, there has been a strong reversal and devaluation of policies affecting the conservation of the natural environment, and that there has been a paralysis of the process of drafting and approving natural space planning and management instruments protected when these were under the supervision of the Department of Agriculture. Total neglect and marginalization of the management of natural spaces, and in particular of the natural parks and the national park, which have lost much of the work tools that are essential to them. There have been reductions in assumptions much higher than the middle. In some cases above 60_per_cent. And it's true that in the last assumption, in a very small way, there have been some more resources, but in a very small way. There has been a constant loss of human and material resources, which has given way to a difficult disruption of the management teams which makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to compliment the objectives set for the same standards of creation of parks, the derivatives, also, of the international mark, and the projection of the benefits and services that are socially hoped for. There was an absolute lack of investment. And why, when we get to this point, do we support this proposal of the law? So, because we consider that the current Catalan legislation on natural heritage and its administration are no longer, today, adapted to the environmental reality, to the social and economic reality of the moment. Will you have enough of this? We don't think so. That they are essential, from our point of view, some more things, among them a law of natural heritage and of biodiversity, a law of agricultural areas that is in parliamentary processing, and, above all – a new law of territories and urbanism... – a new law of territories and urbanism: I do not see the councilman here – that I do not lick the competences of other administrations, as the current erasure is laying. Do we need a natural heritage agency? Well, yes. Without a doubt, the most logical thing would have been that his creation had been made after the approval of the laws that were on them. But well, as the logic, at these times, seems that it is not what prevails in this Parliament, despite this, the socialists have defended the creation of this figure so that we may have, from our point of view, an instrument of permanence that is not in the same way as the above-mentioned structural changes, as has happened so far. An agency that, from our point of view, has to have a permanent structure, a structure with the capacity to manage and preserve the natural heritage, marking objectives in short, mid and long terms. An agency with the capacity to work cross-sectionally and in a network, with shared governance among public administrations involved in the conservation of natural heritage, also the local administration. And we want to listen, in this parliamentary process that begins today, to various actors, right? , before defining which skills to hold the new model, beyond what is already indicated by the proposed law initially. We believe that there must be inclusive governance, participatory governance, which includes all actors involved in the conservation of natural heritage, not just conservationist entities, but also those economic agents who are also active in protected spaces at these times. And, finally, if..., let's say it here, if the assumptions of the Government of Catalonia do not guarantee the compliment of the basic objectives of the policy of conservation of natural heritage and biodiversity, having an agency will serve very little. I'm telling them, naturally, that public assumptions need to be resourced, huh? They know that my parliamentary group was doubtful to sign this proposal for law until the end, and that one of the shields there was, precisely, the little commitment of some government department to assign resources to this agency, not the territorial and sustainability councillor, but some government councillor. Once passed, it seems, this school, we signed this proposal of law; but already we warn that it must also the assumptions of the Generalitat apostin to allocate resources to the conservation of the country's biodiversity, of the natural heritage. The Socialists, too, have announced them, we will work because in the terms of the next two years we will recover, as at least, the presuppostarial levels of the year 2010 destined for the management of the natural heritage of Catalonia. And with all these arguments, we defend that today the plenary of Parliament takes into consideration, votes in favour of us starting the parliamentary processing of this law, listening, I repeat, to all the agents who act in defense of the diversity of the country and the defense of the natural heritage in Catalonia. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.557.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.558.0	Good night. The councillor has already apologized, who said that we should go to the government, but, well, it is a shame that there can't be... – apart from the secretariat of Sustainability, to whom we salute, but – that there can't be a member of the government, because... And it's a big deal that, as it was the day and the debate, this debate about this law – that for us it's super important and it's a structure, and more important, and, moreover, it's a demand that is widely claimed – so it's almost eleven o'clock in the night, where neither the sector nor the environmental entities can be present, so that they were very elusive and had a lot to bet, right? , for the creation of the agency. Because, look, today will be the third attempt. It's just that I like to do a little memory, sometimes I look like the... the book, right? , from..., there..., the book of memoirs of Parliament ; but I think it is important, too, not to lose..., right? , or know the story. It will be the third attempt to create an autonomous body, of public nature, with a presumption, with autonomy, that manages the policies of natural environment in this country with a transversal character. The first attempt and the one that was more advanced was in 2006, with Councillor Milà, who we made the forward draft of the law of the Catalonian Nature Agency and who even subtly submitted to public information, and who then ended up, precisely, for the same sectors, or a part of certain sectors that did not want, in those terms as it was written, and ended up pressing..., or following the typical bars between productive and conservationist sectors, and that project ended up in a jail, and, look at you, was in a jail almost eleven years. Eleven years, huh? , that's said soon. Because, for eleven years, we've been losing biodiversity, we've been having problems managing protected spaces, etc. Later, another text was worked on in 2010, with Councillor Baltasar; very different for what he does to content and conception. Entremig, in 2010, the Environment Department disappears from us, and the natural environment and biodiversity competitions are shared between agriculture and territories, but without any rationality criteria, and all this added to the assumptions that natural environment policies – they said and reiterated, but it is true – were the most affected. So, I always do, don't I? , because I, unfortunately, so, since 2010 I have been carrying these themes, and I always say that there was..., 2010-2014 or 2015 was the quadrennial or the five-year-old black, in which more than dismantling natural environment policies, there was a very strong setback in values, a loss of jobs... ; a setback, however, from the last twenty years, huh? And, moreover, that fracture between the most ecological, conservationist, entity, and productive sectors, which eventually ended up being all in the territory and will have to be heard, has deepened further. But so much, that's why it was super important to me that today... well, this is the law, isn't it? , that we present the three groups, but that there are more groups that support it, because the CUP also worked there and also gives it support, and I am sure that it is willing of all the groups that this can finally come out forward. Clearly, we think this silence, don't we? There was, too, the entities when all this was going on, and the sector, the environmental sector was very quiet. In Fi, remember that it's not until 2014 that they don't make the manifesto, is it? , the manifesto to say: "Well, good; we have to do something with natural environment policies, and that is when the manifesto is signed, more than seventy entities, the university. And, exactly, they're pulling out of here the Conservation platform. cat; remember that they give that document to all the parties that we are presenting to the 2015 elections, and in that document they ask us..., in the book and they ask us to create a governance organ, follow an agency... But they ask us for a whole series of commitments, among them also the law of biodiversity, eh? , or a biodiversity strategy that we have also approved in this Parliament a lot of times to be done; my motions, PSC motions, we have approved, which we have said: "It is to be done– it is to be done. But as things go, I don't know if we're in time to approve... So today it's very important; today it's very important because today, all that we do for a journey that maybe it's not what... well, it's a journey that I would have liked better than it was for extreme urgency, that we could have done it in another way, but we have to do it that way, because, if not, we weren't on time and because it's a topic that's very mature and that's a lot of consensus and it's a demand not just from the environmental sector; it's a demand from the university, the professionals, the businesses that work, the managers of the parks. You will have rejected all parliamentary groups a letter signed for most natural park directors asking, saying please, let us deal with this, that this time to see if we can get out of it. Does that mean that we take the law at 100%? Of course not; we, with the essence of the bill, agree, but we believe that during the parliamentary process..., well, then, we will try that those questions that we believe are better can be better. From something as simple as the name– so, I know, we like it better than nature's agency, because it's shorter and smoother than natural heritage–, up to the issue of the skills it has, that this is already a topic that has already passed to the advisor; well, when it was created the Environment Department, first it had some skills, and until the year 99 it didn't have all of them, all of which relate to biodiversity and the environment. Well, so, here with the agency goes a little bit. We believe that..., to see if in the parliamentary process we can get the agency, some aspects that now do not have, therefore, they have ended. And especially here in the center of forest management themes, forest policy, because it cannot be limited only to the land of ownership of the Generality that is found in protected spaces. According to our opinion, in all this matter, the agency has to be able to have more vision. Other questions, for example, that we also try to get a lot of armor left or that we get a lot of better, well, that we're clear, right? : the whole staff issue. Staff issues cannot create anxiety and concern; staff, both working and working, in this journey, so that there is a compromise and the law makes it explicit, that it is going to negotiate and respect all rights, old age, that this integration is going to mediate protocols... I mean, in this sense I think we need to leave people alone, because, if not, it would be a bad start. Or, for example, that I have also made clear all the paper in the themes of governance, the board of directors, the participations, the assemblies or the parliament, which has a lot of space. I mean, these are aspects that I think during the process of appearances, that will be extended, we can go listening to the different views and improving and retouching the law. Also the issue of functions, the issue of financing. The issue of finance is a space that we also need to shield, because, if not, the agency will also be born with a pillow, right? The law determines how it can be financed. We, for example, think that here we can add other questions of finance, because it is a topic that, moreover, we have fought from a long time ago and at every assumption, and we have not seen..., and we have seen that there may be a certain predisposition, right? As a matter of fact, as a matter of fact, it is that part of the tourist tax that is actually affecting it; because there is a tourism that is affecting the environment, so look at whether this part of the tourist tax..., or which part could go here. Or, for example, all the themes of the effective evaluation of policies that will be done, or the themes of co-management, incorporate the whole theme of the concept of environmental mediation, which I think is very important to work on, or environmental education and awareness, because this is the key — this is the key. Environmental education and awareness programs, which also have to deal with detail, are the key to learning about these values and that young generations understand the importance they value this natural heritage of which we all speak. And not just for the climate change, but for the country, like job creation. I mean, I'm not gonna repeat everything you all know and we said. So, we... oh, and sanctioning authority, for example, right? , that Article 2.3 is a thing of the past, but we believe that it may be necessary to make it a little more concrete. For all this, we'll give it support. And they ask all the Members and Members of the other parliamentary groups here who, please, make a little effort, because, besides, we are very fair... well, we don't know, don't we? But this legislature doesn't think we have much time, and I think it's very important that we approve this agency and that it's a need for the country and that, besides, it has the agreement and consent of everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.559.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Next, there is the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera", from the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.560.0	Thank you very much, President. Forgive, too, the assistance of the counselor and aggravate the presence, therefore, of the secretary of Environment and Sustainability, Mrs Marta will rise, and staff of the department that accompanies us. Let us begin the debate on this proposal for a resolution on the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency, which we have presented jointly with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, recalling that on the 1st of March of the year 2017, in the appearance that precisely the councillor of Territori, Mr Josep Rull, made with the motivation of the Commission of Medi Ambient, more than to explain, therefore, who were the actions of the department and the richness of our natural heritage, made manifest in the committee the need to be able to create some tool that better managed it precisely from this natural heritage. It was at that time that different parliamentary groups were asked to try to pull it out. And here I would like to thank, therefore, especially MP Hortènsia Grau, of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, and Mr Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Party, the first moment's will that they would have to try to work on this law. They also expressed the will to be able to agree with Congresswoman Mireia Boya of the CUP, and we had also been trying to comment in an intense way with the Ciutadans Group. In the end..., it was trying to work the text to get to a first, it is only a first consensus between the different parliamentary groups and to be able to process it more smoothly, and in the end we signed it by the three parliamentary groups. What is the advantage of having used this legislative formula? So, first, as Mrs. Grau has already commented, the possibility of speeding up processing a little more. But, above all, from our point of view, we understand that this is indeed a tool that must be used to be a tool of consensus to manage such an important and important asset for our country as is our natural heritage; we understood that it was a good formula to be able to do it among the different parliamentary groups, because we were already out of a position of consensus of inici, while we already know that then, in the parliamentary debate, thanks to the comparisons we make and to the contributions of the different groups with their issues, so this text can come back. I'm telling you, but I'd like to stress that because you're aware of it. Catalonia has very important natural and country characteristics. In fact, we are very rich in diversity: Catalonia has 741 different habitats, ninety-four habitats of fifty-seven species are of Community interest, and eighty-three species of ocells are protected by the annex to the first directive of ocells. The Catalan territory is very rich, has four hundred species of vertebrate animals, more than two thousand species of invertebrate animals and more than four thousand vascular plants. If we look at it comparing the territory of Catalonia with the rest of the territories, therefore, of the European Union, for example, Catalonia is in a very important situation. Therefore, we currently have 32 percent of our protected assets. And at these moments it protects thanks, therefore, to the plans of space of natural interest, where is found the Natura 2000 Network, or the natural spaces of special protection. But we also have another feature like the country, and it's one that's important, and it's that we have a country that's small, very rich in biodiversity, but at the same time we have a very populated territory. In fact, it costs us to find some territory in Catalonia that is open, so, from the man, I mean, we live with this biodiversity..., precisely the people who have lived in the territory for a long time with this diversity. This is why we find it especially important to create a tool that must ultimately be a legal tool that helps us to better combine all the different actors we have in the territory. Why, therefore, do we think it is important to have a natural heritage agency? So, because we have an exceptional natural heritage, because we want better protection of this nature, because we want to keep this differential with the country, which for us is a source of pride, but also because we want this natural heritage, this protection to be compatible with the territory and its own management. Catalonia as the country has been a pioneer in long, in fact, throughout the State, in natural environment policies. In fact, the first environmental consultancy created the year 1991 and the year 1992 created the Space of Natural Interest, the PEIN, and the year 2006 created, approved the Xarxa Natura 2000. Therefore, we have been working on natural environment and biodiversity policies for a long time. Notwithstanding this, beyond the fact that we live in a territory that is densely populated, we also find ourselves with some other difficulty, such as, for example, the climate change; you threaten all of them who tell us that at these times we must try to have a special cure of what we have been having until now in our territory. So, what are the reasons for which we would justify the creation of this agency? So, first of all, because, as has been said before, it has been claimed for a long time. More than 20 years ago, different parliamentary groups, different governments have tried to create a tool, I insist, a tool, which must be able to bring together the different political and the different actors working in the territory. Another especially important motius is because we believe in the continuity of animal species and plants that we have in our territory. Another that is also very important is the legal obligation that we have as the government to be able to maintain this natural heritage, from the same obligations that the international brands establish for us, to the same United Nations, to the strategies implemented for the European Union or, finally, for the same Statute of autonomy, which also reverses the need to protect this natural heritage. Another of the reasons is that we believe that the citizens have the right to enjoy this natural heritage. And the citizens also have the right to live from this kind of natural heritage. Therefore, we understand that this must be seen as an engine for its development. But, as I said before, there are some defects that could prevent or weaken this heritage, and one of the important ones, for example, is the climate change. Therefore, to generate wealth, the protection of the environment, an integral participation between the territories with the different actors..., we believe that it is and must be the tool because this heritage can continue to feel alive. Other motivators who also justify the creation of the agency? The complexity of environmental management. In the environment there are not only different actors– territories, tourism, agriculture, heritage..., the same heritage–...; diversity and plurality of professionals; diversity also of direct actors, from consortia to deputies, to municipal administrations; different infrastructures that must be able to survive and coexist together. And, therefore, we need this tool that we need to be able to improve our operation. The law is very simple, in fact, which simply backs up the functioning of this agency; it consists of eight articles, where it's talked about is..., basically, it's the functions of the governing bodies, the statutes or the program contract, and also part of the economic regime. We insist that our intention is to try to establish a tool that allows us, we insist, to protect the territory with the survival of the very agents of the territory. What we want is to give this text to the rest of the parliamentary groups, both to the signers of the bill and to those who have not signed it, even from the People's Party, who have presented a message to the whole, to work for it and to reach a consensus. With comparisons and reviews from all groups, we're sure we'll get it. Therefore, to thank them, to the parliamentary groups, therefore, their disposition. Special thanks to the secretary, therefore, and to the counselor, her involvement in the project. We know it's a project that's very much theirs; we've been told about it since the beginning. We have also tried since the beginning, precisely with the Government, therefore, to arrive at a text that pleases most parliamentary groups. So, we are proud of this first text, that we are sure that when we approve it, then we will be happy... I mean, they will see it with good eyes, not just the parliamentary groups, but also all the actors in the territory. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.561.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Cervera. In order to defend the totality, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group, Mrs. Marisa Xandri has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.562.0	Thank you, President. Secretary... well, I'm sorry that there's no counselor, that I can't be here today, but I come here, so, to defend this task to the totality that we've presented since the People's Party. And our parliamentary group, therefore, we have presented this idea precisely because we share a good part of the motius presentation, right? We are convinced, as the text says, that natural heritage is a distinct part of Catalonia and a strategic action that can protect and manage properly. We also share that this protection-management is a growing social demand; that we have a great responsibility, also legal, protection and management, and above all we share that the complexity of natural environment management and biodiversity requires additional coordination and enforcement capabilities. Precisely because we are aware that this is so, we don't understand the way this agency that they want to control everything has been stuffed. The motivating of the project to totality obeys the criteria of form and background, as this new agency has proposed, but above all we do not share the content. I'll start with the shape. In no case was it necessary the procedure given to it, the extraordinary emergency procedure and in the form of a law proposal, which did not allow the participation of citizens, professionals, locals, agricultural and forestry unions, land ownership, etc., skipping the law of transparency. You have ignored the people of the rural and agricultural world; it is not new either. They have not opened the public consultation phase. You have vetoed the participation of a very important part of the sector do not allow your direct cooperation in a public consultation process at the time of making this proposal of law. No option has been given that no one can ask for this failure to comply with the rules of transparency and the why of so much obscurantism on the part of this government with the territory. Surely, as there is a great deal of haste for this to be done before the end of the legislature, I know that if they started a process of public participation this process would have widened and, therefore, its approval too. You, I hear you say, from the department, schematic legislation to the territory. The councillor will give green light to an agency that has deprived the owners, by skipping the processing by mitting a preliminary draft of the law, which is the most guaranteed and transparent formula, and seeking to place us through the door of the behind a proposal of law with the complicity of the Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and..., well, and Juntes per el Si. And I'm getting ahead of myself, because I guess... well, I've been told, I've been told by some MP, haven't I? , that there was a consensus. So I believe that some Members have only listened to a part of the sector, the interested part, in no case the majority. And they have escaped criticism of those who do represent most of the natural spaces we have in Catalonia. Another question. When talking about the object and the functions of the agenda, they are not limited to the competences provided for in Article 144 of the Statute of Autonomy; it goes further. It is not limited to the definition of natural heritage and biodiversity to the skills that have an environmental value, but it leaves the door open to sectors that, in no case, are included in the cited article, such as agriculture, industry and forestry. As has been said, the whole activity is full, and it seems unacceptable to us, as has been said at these times. We've all got a letter, a letter from some presidents of protected space directors, who support the petitions of natural space directors with respect to the handling of this law, which, of course, we don't agree with. And we don't do it for different reasons. In the first place, it is logical to position the directors, who have insisted that in no case this new agency supposes a simplification of structures and management organs. And, having what we have, that's it: no reduction of management organs and structures. It is clear that the directors of natural spaces are not endorsed by the boards of directors. This position expressed in this letter is outside the views of owners and park management boards. If I'm not mistaken, there are eight parks that have been positioned favorably, but what about the rest? Why didn't they do it? Is it they don't have a vote or a vote? Doesn't it have to be because the government wanted to act opaquely and over and over again, in the sense that this was to go through this Ple yes or yes? Why are parks as important as the Montseny, Collserola, the deltas, not to mention all that are missing, not in favor? And what about this on the basis of consent? At the sight of the people they often use, they transfer it to the sight of the parks: when they speak, they forget to say a part of the people, a part of the parks. But, well, this government is interested in talking by the mouth of everyone, but at the time of acting only for some. Nor is the form uncertain, but above all the source: the content of the law, the one that draws up its articles. And in this sense, we share the percentage that the College of Forest Engineers of Catalonia has brought to us and that, I suppose, the government also knows, just like the rest of parliamentary groups. And we believe that the current wording of the bill does not lead to a better defence of biodiversity, of the agility, or of the professionalism required by the management of our territory and that it may involve, as it is written, a hint of its management that harms both biodiversity and agricultural, timber and forestry activities, as well as other economic activities that are developing in rural areas, to the detriment of the local population. The model that is proposed is an attack on forest property, and it is absolutely remote from what the forestry and agricultural sector really needs, much so that they tend to hide. When talking about ownership and owners, it does so in the terms of collaboration, in no case of joint action, that they can benefit both the owner and the agency, in the wide sense of the word. With this new one, you doubt that the sustainable use of natural resources is a basic pillar of conservation. In short, in this law they do not recognize forest pages and owners as an ally, but as an obstacle in the better policies of the territory. Other questions, however important: the subject of taxes and taxes. The model of agency in whether it is already prioritising a management that you often collect in debt and the imposition of taxes; it is to say, more debt and more fiscal pressure. You just need to see the ACA or the Catalan Agency of Residus, clear examples, certainly, of slowness and bureaucracy in the processes. It is, therefore, about an institution and a model of management that is very remote from others without debt and economic audit. And it is curious when in Article 6, on the economic regime and finance, in band of resources that will come, therefore, from the Fund of Natural Heritage, of heritage, of administrative sanctions, etc., here is talk of contributions from other administrations, and among them talk about the State, right? I mean, it's funny, right? At least when today – today – you have approved this law to break with the State, so I'm talking about whether the State can finance or will finance this agency. The truth is that we only have to think that you really or really don't believe anything you're doing... and, worse of all, you're taking the skin of Catalans. It's true that they don't understand how they have the bar to present this text to us, so the state government as they can finance... that can finance this agency, right? What else? So, with the model that you present to us there is no simplification of us, consortia or delays. On the contrary, it generates additional delays at the time of approving management plans, economic activities. And at the same time it generates legal uncertainty in aspects such as the continuity of activities or urban and administrative aspects competent, when developing, for example, the effects of the economic corridors. For what it does to the representation, to the members of the board of directors, we do not share the composition of its members either, as they do not represent the territory in a proportional way; that it does contemplate private entities, but they do not have to believe the representativeness, while others are able to enter it. The new agency intends to take decisions on private property through public participation processes, the promotion of green infrastructure, eco-friendly corridors, territorial custody and urban planning instruments, because the practice protects the natural environment from the activities that are already there, the promotion of territorial custody, favours the custody organizations before ownership, which are denied the incentives equivalent to the same pocket. The agency also wants to assume the exercise of environmental authority, which implies that all the processes administered, such as now a technical management plan, the approval of a farm or an extractive or playful activity to the environment, will have to be reviewed again and, if necessary, prohibit or approve. Thus, it will also assume the administrative intervention regime, with functions of authorization, control and sanction of all activities. While the initial blurring between the DARP and the CUP has taken place, where only one point has been made in relation to the natural space of special protection, the agency continues to have all the powers of authorization, control, encouragement and sanction over everything that is developed in the territory, whether public or private. According to this law, and taking into account the administrative intervention regime, the agency will absorb the functions of the joints in those smaller activities. And finally, I have just said that we have presented this task to defend what the CUP calls ‘minority organizations, such as the Catalonia Forest Consortium, the Forest Property Centre and the Agricultural Institute of Sant Isidre, these in retrograde positions, according to the CUP, and that now, with this law, the Government has closed it, as well as the agricultural, agricultural, and not seem to be content with this text. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.563.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Then, for the turn against, has the word "Mrs. Violant Cervera". [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] It's the turn against the groups proposing to the puzzle to the totality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.564.0	Thank you very much, President. I suppose it must be these hours, that we're so, a little tired... Mrs. Xandri, I mean, I have the feeling that we've been reading different texts, because many of the things you've put in your speech are not contemplated in this law. I mean, some considerations. He says, "Why isn't there, Collserola, and why hasn't Collserola and Montseny been asked? So, because Collserola is of the Collserola Consortium, and Montseny is of the Parliament; they are not in any case property of the Generality. It's not true, it hasn't worked in a dark way. A bill of law is a perfectly legitimate parliamentary process, as can be a bill of law. In fact, when you try to get a law to be consensual and you may be interested in presenting it with different parliamentary groups, as is the case, you present it with a proposal of law, because it allows you to sign it with different parliamentary groups, that if it is a bill of law only sign one. It is clear that the parliamentary procedure varies, but in no case is it absolutely necessary for anyone, because the procedure continues. You will be able to present to those entities and enterprises, and forestry enterprises, therefore, that they want to compare, to be able to compare, and we will all take note, of the proposals they propose, and of us exactly the same. You're talking about forest management. It's not true, no, the law doesn't affect the forest management of private forests, because they just stay out of agency functions. And the agency, in addition, kept the same functions as today's Biodiversity Sub-Directorate General. Therefore, it is only possible to transfer the functions of the Biodiversity Branch to a natural heritage agency. And the regulation of the agency..., it insisted before, it regulates what should be its organizational chart, it regulates what should be its functions, but in case it is unfolding who are the policies neither environmental nor administrative that must last in the long term. In the same way that now, without agency, the Government of the Generality, or the governments of the Generality have been making policies in the media, so now they will also make them; what happens is that they are doing through the agency. Clearly, I've had a bit of a stop, because I didn't think that his intervention was just a year ago on a path that seemed like the law text had not been read. And I don't think that's a good thing, because if we insist that what we want is for there to be consensus with the territory, consensus with the different agents and consensus with the parliamentary groups, it's because, obviously... I mean, if there's anything that needs to be reconsidered, then we'll invite the attendees, we'll listen to them, and we'll take note of their contributions, and then we'll discuss them in the questioning process. You've made many laws and you know perfectly well that this works that way. So, nothing more. I would like to say, on the part of the proposing groups, that we will vote against his speech to the totality and, as it cannot be otherwise, I invite you to try to reach an agreement so that this agency, therefore, is well seen and grateful to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.565.0	Thank you, Mrs. Beer. Then we proceed to the turn of interventions from the rest of the groups to fix their positioning. In the first place has the word Francisco Javier Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.566.0	Good night. Well, it's a shame that all the interested parties who wanted to attend this debate, so... now it's empty, the guest part, except the director and the rest of the department. It's such a big deal that a topic like this has to be dealt with at these times and in this so empty format. Well, I'll do my exposure around two questions. The first: is this law necessary? And the second: is urgency and extraordinary urgency necessary? And these two questions remind me that it does... well, my last intervention in this House was precisely with these two questions, but with another law. So, we are in front of a procedure that is becoming a costume, which is that to the Law of Agrarian Spaces and in this, of the creation of the Natural Heritage Agency..., the same system: instead of making drafts of law, so let's make proposals. We're within what we can do... but, well. In the face of the question as to whether this law is necessary, in which I am sure that we all agree that it is a good part of the preamble of the text that they have submitted to us, that at international level there is a recognition of setting objectives in relation to conservation and sustainable use of the natural environment, and at European level to take measures to halt the loss of biodiversity. This point is left with a lot of consensus. Another point: that it is necessary to plan, order and properly manage the territory that integrates the Pla d'espais d'interest naturelle, which accounts for 32_percent of the territory of Catalonia. We all agree on that, too. Another point: that the protection of the natural environment is that what I said before I planned, order and manage is not a minor policy, because it affects a very important part of the territory and its economic development. So the natural environment is an opportunity and not a burden. Now, we have to count on the economic forces in the territory. Another serious point – and this I will read literally, as it happens in the preamble – is: "The natural heritage policy of Catalonia has historically been underfunded and with insufficient capacity for action linked to an insufficient administrative structure. I am very glad – I am very glad – that precisely the responsibility for what I have just read, which is ‘historically underfunded and insufficiently capable of acting...', three groups that are making the proposal and that have had much to see in what has been going on these past years. And lastly, which is the same as I just said, the three groups that are involved in this have been part of the governments of the Generality. And I read it literally another time: "It's important to remember that... – that's what the preamble says, huh? "It is important to remember that, long after twenty-five years, the Administration responsible for planning – I don't know which Administration should be this – "and the management of natural heritage has not guaranteed the integrity and continuity necessary to define and implement a solid and structural policy. But whose fault is that? So, we're aware of what didn't go well for five-and-twenty years. So, well, maybe we've done it for five-and-twenty years and now we're putting a solution to it with presses and in a way that I think it's worth a lot more. Another part of the text says that on repeated occasions teams have been divided, functions have been divided between departments, they have come together again and with different combinations, they have changed department and order, they have prioritized and de-prioritized their action. This permanent year and coming has consumed many energies, prevented the laying of solid foundations, left many lines of work unfinished, and caused a great loss of knowledge and expertise. With this, I... don't you think I can stop changing with presses? Don't you think you can think 'hobe and agree with the whole territory? And here's the second part, my second question: is urgency and extraordinary urgency necessary? To answer this question I would like to ask another question: what is the main tool of a government to make a law? So, according to Law 13 of 2008, of the Presidency of the Generality and the Government, to Article 36 says that the Government exercises the legislative initiative by means of the submission of bills of law to Parliament. It's obvious we're ahead of this. So, it's a matter of great interest to the Government of the Generality, because even the councillor, the head of this area, came to the committee and explained the bonds of the creation of a natural heritage agency. I've already listened to what was said on behalf of the company Cervera, but I think if the councilman shows up and explains to us what this is about the Catalan agency..., in the end it would have been very interesting if you had presented yourself as a government project. But then why has it not been presented as a bill? I'd have to do the following. If it had been submitted as a bill, a preliminary draft would have had to be made with a general memo, studies and opinions; an impact assessment memo, with budget impact report, economic and social impact report, policy impact report; a memorandum would have had to be made with consultations and allegations on these estimated and rejected consultations; a report would have had to be made of the legal services of the departments concerned – of all the departments concerned –; public information would have to be made at least fifteen days old. And after approving the draft bill, the Government could have decided to introduce it as a bill. When a bill comes to Parliament, it comes with guarantees and rigour that I think we don't have today. We have skipped all these previous stages: memoirs, studies, opinions, impact assessments, allegations and public information. Public information, which is not trying to agree with the other parliamentary groups, which is very laudable and very interesting and I have considered it very grateful, but I think there are more agents and more entities who should be properly informed. But the worst of all is that besides not being a bill with guarantees and rigour, it has been presented as a bill, through an extraordinary urgent procedure. And this is where I don't understand anything anymore. How have some opposition groups, who are not supporting the Government, accepted this extraordinary urgency? Is this urgent, really? We've been behind this for many years, and now it comes from a month or three months? What are the real reasons? Are there any reasons we miss? Is there a person who benefits or who harms himself by doing so as quickly or as slowly as possible? Are we not making a little bit of a law that needs maximum consensus, not just parliamentary, but territorial? And another thing: what importance does this government attach to the natural environment to such an important issue? Since parliamentary arithmetic is what it is, and in any case the beginning of the procedure will be approved, our group will abstain in the amendment as a whole. And I end up wishing..., just as with the Natural Spaces Act I wished the agricultural sector much luck, I ended up wishing much luck to the natural environment and to all the professionals who dedicate themselves, because they really need it too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.567.0	Thank you, Mr Dominguez. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.568.0	Well, good night to everyone. After passing a law of reference and just when the decree of summons is being signed, you will forgive me... above all that I forgive all the professionals of the natural environment, of biodiversity, the directors of the natural parks, if I am not focused on the Agency of Natural Heritage. It's a big deal that it's so late, because in conservation and biodiversity protection policies, dueres have been pending for a long time. Even having this Law of Natural Spaces, which is 1985, until now it has been impossible to renew it and update it; it is said to be thirty years old, or thirty years late in its renewal. Then, in this sense, urgency? Yeah. If it's 30 years late. In fact, we are thirty years late and this allowed us to trinx the territory, because we did not have a law adapted to the current time. And it is announced, at the beginning of this legislature, that this law of biodiversity and natural heritage is being processed; but now the resignation of the current government to do so is known. And we don't get out; we're 30 years late and we don't just get out. Perhaps this eternal contrast between nature conservation and development. To relate that the conservation of the environment holds the progress has made a huge hole in our society. The preservation of nature does not have to stop the progress, it is a fallacy, a simple, effective and populist recipe, which has been promoted for many years by certainly leading and assailing classes. In fact, the idea of no to nature has already been promoted since pujolism, so as to tolerate the extractive economy, where only devouring and exploiting nature is generated, presumably, rich. More and more infrastructure that has drained the territory; cleavage and cleavage to also economic opportunities that offer the natural spaces that are protected, that are managed correctly. And remember, we want to remember that it was the proposal of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, thanks to its proposal, that it was created the Natural Heritage Fund, during the processing and approval of the assumptions. And it is that environmental policies and the defence of the territory, with all the resources needed so that they are effective, is one of the basic axes that always move our proposals. We even tried on these assumptions that weren't ours, trying to improve them, trying to get something positive for what it does to the environmental vector. And the fund created will be coix and it won't have it running here, it'll be an orphan, if this Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency isn't a reality. I mean, we created the fund, we filled it with money, and we wouldn't know how to spend it. I think everyone is aware of this and here too the need, the importance of creating this Natural Heritage Agency. And today begins the debate of his creation. We believe that it must be a public body that must be in the service of management, conservation and protection of natural heritage. And we want to remember and recognize that we did not participate in the joint entry-to-register signature that the Socialist parliamentary groups made, Together for the Yes and Catalonia Yes, it is, so to protest; protest, not because we did not agree, but because we wanted to protest for the stretch-and-run that there was within the government, and that it was very obvious a struggle between councils, and a struggle, a conflict of interests, between two councils of the government: that of Territories and Sustainability and that of Agriculture. And it's that the forest lobby, that list of forest lobby that Congresswoman Xandri has so defended, and that, yes, they're retrograde, they're retrograde, they're doing some retrograde policies for us– and we don't have a problem with saying it in public–, they're always, they're always thinking about their butxaca and not the general interest. Clearly, general interest is a very vague thing for these forest lobbyists, that what they want is, more than getting rich, so manage in a way that is little aware of the natural values, all that is the forest mass of this country. And that's why it's decaf, a project that was ambitious, that was modern, that was... well, we liked it very much. And this was done in order to carry out the division of competences in the management of the natural environment, which came to an end from the suppression of the council of Medi Ambient, a few years ago. When this council was abolished, there was a division within the natural environment, and it was divided into two different councils. And this has greatly made it difficult to manage the natural environment in its conjunction. We will pose three red lines in the debate at the ponència de llei. And we've already announced them today, even though it's late; but, like they're recording videos here, so tomorrow, if anyone cares – and park directors will also be interested in knowing who these three red lines are – they'll be able to get back their footage. The first is: for what it does to the natural space of special protection, the Department of Agriculture has imposed the concept of co-management in the forest land of ownership of the Generalitat; some lands that are very minority – together with the state title represent less than 5_percent of the country's forest land–, and the rest of public land, which are, approximately, 18_percent of the total, and you will be majority in the parks, especially the Pyrenees, have been completely suspended. And an intervention is fixed, in private ownership, while maintaining the skills of the Forest Property Centre. As this part has remained, for us it is totally unacceptable for what it does to public lands. We could accept the co-management that is proposed, since the additional provision according to it attaches a certain prevalence to the environmental body and to conservationist criteria, but it would have to be extended to all public forest lands of protected natural areas, or to establish, for these later ones, another mechanism with sufficient guarantees. Otherwise, this co-management, which already means a step backwards for us, would be merely testimonyal, while a significant part of these protected natural spaces, therefore, would be totally unprotected. Therefore, this will be the first red line that we will put to the pose. A _second set of items that we will enter during the petition process are related to the legal regime. The agency, for us, must be an autonomous body, of public nature and of an administrative character that must be governed by public law. And this is not specified now, in this proposition of law, in this way. And, add to this, or related to this, the workers' labour rights: the staff, which must be functional or working, in the same terms and conditions as those established for the staff of the Administration of the Generality, in conformity with the applicable legislation. If one thing we're after the Cultural Heritage Agency is that... well, the mistakes that have been made and that have somehow caused chaos in everything that is the management of cultural heritage, that's not what we want. We don't want to repeat it, and for us, it will also be a red line, so everything I have to see with the legal system and the workers' rights. The positivity... - that's also there, isn't it? , in order not to be so negative at these times, because neither – we consider it important that a decentralized structure is now envisaged – the Cultural Heritage Agency does not have this and we value it positively – with decentralised bodies of participation and collecting, in part, our proposals that we made when we tried, also, jointly sign this initiative. And lastly, to say that... well, we've heard that the Department of Agriculture insists on making a part of this natural heritage fund. And it's obvious, of course... we have resources there, some money, and that's a lot to call for. The money, in a sector that has been underfunded and that has suffered a higher percentage of retail during the crisis, is therefore very important. We are radically opposed to this, and we argue that we want to shield this issue during the debate and ensure that the integrity of the Natural Heritage Fund goes to the Natural Heritage Agency that we will create. And we hope that the final version of the agency will have the skills, the economic resources, as foreseen in this Natural Heritage Fund, to effectively deploy its objectives and scope of action. And let us hope that the party interests – legitimate, but party interests, who do not think of this general interest that we defend –, therefore, do not hinder their processing and approval, because nature..., we have a vote, but it is that nature has neither sight nor vote, but it needs an organism that takes care of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.569.0	Miss Boya...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.570.0	Thank you very much. I'm done. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.571.0	Thank you; thank you, Miss Boya. After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 97 against and 25 abstentions. Therefore, this legislative initiative continues its processing. [[Changes to the agenda]] Mr. Torrent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.572.0	Yes, Madam President, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.573.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.574.0	By virtue of Article 81.3 of the Rules, and as soon as the Law of the Self-Determination Referendum has been approved and has already been published, and at the same time, that law creates the Electoral Union and that, therefore, the members of this Electoral Union can already be provided, with the procedure established by the same Law of the Self-Determination Referendum, in concrete, the additional third provision, we would ask that we be able to include this point in the order of the day, I insist, by virtue of Article 81.3. And we would also ask that, as long as applications can be submitted, an hour's time limit should be set for such applications to be submitted. [[Greetings.]] Thank you, President. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.575.0	There's, uh, Mrs. Gabriel, why do you ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.576.0	For a point of order?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.577.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.578.0	And basically to express ourselves exactly in the same sense that you just made the Junts for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.579.0	After the owner the word, huh? Since two parliamentary groups have called for the amendment of the agenda for this plenary session to include a new item, which is the election of the Electoral Union of Catalonia, in application of Article 19 and the third final provision of the Law of the Self-Determination Referendum, in accordance with Article 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, in accordance with the considerations given by the Secretary-General to the Bureau, I must warn you that this item of the agenda may be affected by the interlocutors of the Constitutional Court. Similarly, do the two soliciting groups continue to want to change the agenda? [[Pause.]] All right, then. Before we proceed to the vote on the amendment of the agenda, it will give the turn of words to all parliamentary groups. The first... Mr. Carrizosa asked me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.580.0	Madam President, with regard to the request for a new agenda change today, it seems that today is the day of surprises and that in this case what you want to introduce as a change of agenda is nothing more and nothing less than the new outrage that on the part of Junts pel Yes and the CUP want to name those who would look for the cleansing of that supposed non-referendum that you are going to call. [[Greetings.]] We, Madam President, have recently submitted a register letter calling for the application of the Rules of Procedure of this Parliament. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] This seems to be out of the question today: the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, which governs the clean debates. What you don't want to respect is what we ask you to respect. And that, if there is someone to be named, by virtue of a law that we will see what lasts..., that is why we have to approve it, so, look, at twelve minus quarter of the night, with night we have to talk [[applause]] of whom they will appoint to control the cleansing of their referendum. Who are you going to name, we'll talk about it at twelve minus four, so... 'cause this law may not last much longer, huh? But if we were to really apply it, and we were talking not in a theater, but in the real Parliament, with the real laws and our real rules, what we would be saying, which is what the Rules say, is that Members have the right to know these people, not an hour to propose them but to know them, to propose them with sufficient time and to hear and know about them, and to ask who are the people who are watching for the cleansing of referendums. But here we don't talk about referendums, we don't talk about democratic cleansing, we don't talk about law enforcement in Parliament. And, therefore, we..., I announce to you that, first, we want the writing that we have submitted in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, to be made a hearing, if the law lasts until tomorrow, which today is twelve minus four. And secondly, that we oppose the holding of an appointment by the Lords of Junts pel Si i la CUP, of the people who supposedly would have to monitor the cleansing of these elections that are never to be held, which I hope are a democratic and clean election, with the democratic and clean system that our nation, Spain, has. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.581.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Mr. Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.582.0	Thank you, President. To oppose, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, the petition made by Junts' spokespersons for the Yes and the CUP, for which he makes the introduction of the vote of the candidates to form part of this Electoral Union, for various reasons. In the first place, because we believe that it is not possible to vote, at the election of these persons, on an act which derives from the approval of a law, or at least from a text which has the appearance and the form of a law which does not meet the formal requirements required, for which it makes the section in which it deals with aspects related to the electoral regime; it is said that the majority of those aspects which are precisely regulated by the Electoral Union have not been approved, and therefore cannot be considered validly approved, at least in this section of the Rules. We believe that you are addicted to nullity this part of the law's proposal, which is now approved by this Parliament. And, according to the term, because we have a rule here, of the Parliament of Catalonia, which has an article, which is 176, which in its first apartment says that..., this article speaks of the procedure for the election of public offices, and in its first apartment says that for the elections of public offices that you commission to Parliament, the parliamentary groups will be able to submit candidates, according to the conditions that each law establishes. And until here I agree that the law, if you have been approved with the most necessary, in this respect, could regulate what conditions these candidatures, what types of curricula, what academic titles, if any, all you do in the case. But following the point and following with the end of this first incisor of 176.1, he says that these candidatures must be submitted to the General Registry of Parliament fifteen days before the iniciator of the session in which the election is planned. And this cannot be considered repealed or removed from the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia, because a law has been approved in which it is said that this will be done with immediate character. There may be, as I recall, the case of the Account Union, in which this term is extended and it is said that applications must be submitted with an antelation, but the antelation cannot be reduced to zero in the submission of these applications. And it's that you have a lot of meaning, this provision of the Rules, because it's the least time necessary because these candidatures can be known, because it can, let's say, study the suitability of the people who are offered for these classes, and so that the deputies can form an opinion on whether they should vote in favour, against or abstain from these candidatures. It is more: the Parliament, in the Rules that it gave, was so clear that it was important to study the suitability of these people, that in the Apartamento it spoke of the possibility of asking for appearances – the hearings, which are said, in Anglo-Saxon terms – of these people. Therefore, I would like to ask you, Madam President, that these Members and Members of this House, in the use of their rights and in the respect to which the Rules of Procedure and to which the Statute also refers, respect the majorities necessary to approve changes in the electoral system. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.583.0	Yes, Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.584.0	Thank you, President. To move three issues very briefly. The first is that we will not vote, because what we are going to do now, then, comes and comes from a law that is clearly illegal and that does not meet any kind of democratic requirement. Two: to remember, in fact, that we are in statutory matter that requires two_thirds of the chamber to make changes. We are therefore once again faced with the violation of Catalan legislation itself. Independence insists on putting forward what they are doing as a conflict between Catalonia, united around them in a unanimous way – « som un sole poble – against a Madrid as a kind of enemy. And what they're doing turns out to be violating and trampling on the Catalan legality itself, the Board of Guarantees Statutàries, the Iletrat major, the secretary general and the southuncorda, if necessary. And the third question: to make a procedural request for us to finish a little earlier, I believe. Since they have been launched in this dynamic of Juan Palomo, I like it, I like it: they already have the Law of the referendum, now they have a trade union to measure, why not in the next point also ask for the alteration of the agenda and already approve the percentage of participation and the result of the referendum [[some applause]] , which, in the end, would be the most comfortable for you, because surely you have already decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.585.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Mr. Coscubila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.586.0	Thank you, Madam President. Our group cannot accept the installation that is made of incorporation in the order of the day, by the way, another time, of 81.3. I don't know how many alterations of the order of the day can bear a ple of this natural, with the surprise procedure that Mr. Coromines announced to us yesterday in some press statements and that I think he was able to overcome himself. I don't know how much democracy and this Parliament can bear, but I don't think that is. And I think they said it and we're going to say it again: and it's not just a matter of rule, I insist, it's a question of democratic guarantees of this reference. I said this before: the chapter of the law that has been approved speaks about the Electoral Administration, it speaks concretely about the system of the electoral union. And Article 56.2 of the Statute makes it clear – I make it clear – that these laws can only be approved if they have two thirds of the Members of the Chamber. If I don't miscalculate it, that means ninety deputies and deputies. And it is quite clear that as a result of today's vote, these ninety Members do not exist. Therefore, from this point of view, the base, the foundations upon which your petition for alteration of the order of the day is raised, do not exist, because this distance from the law has not been approved, much as you insist. If the Statute of Autonomy says that there are two thirds of Members and Members – that is to say, that there are no Members and Members – and the vote does not give these representatives and Members, this aside from the law has not been approved; except that you do not tell me that the majority can also derogate from or leave the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia pending during this plenary, which is what you are doing throughout the day. And as we believe that the majority can do many things, but what they can't do is leave the laws in abeyance, and above all they can't leave the Catalonian State of Autonomy in abeyance – that if someone wants to reform has mechanisms to do so, but what they can't do is make him disappear from a plumb in one night, at these times – it's not possible to make this change of the order of the day. This is a consideration of regulatory character, but I will say to you again a consideration of political character: the deputies of Junts for the Yes voted for a proposal submitted at the time, a motion from Catalonia Yes, it is Pot in relation to... They have voted many things with us, and they have completed a few. One of them, quite clearly, in the general policy debate, is the ugly reference to the three characteristics that the reference should have, huh? any type of reference: inclusive of Catalan society – you already see what kind of inclusive you are generating – democratic guarantees, and, at the same time, seeking international recognition. Of these three installations there are, but you, during the day of today, are destroying the few that may be there. Do you really think that someone – someone – outside this Parliament, someone outside Catalonia who is not very hooligan, can come to accept that a referendum that approves three weeks of its celebration can manage democratically and with guarantees? With an administration, with an election union elected without any form of staff, with an article of a law, with a chapter of a law that has not been approved because there are no votes, no deputies, and, moreover, with a procedure that violates Article 176 of the Rules, which requires a mechanism that does what it is to secure Parliament with the election of these people, and you, as a graceful concession, allow us to now present candidates for an hour? Do they really think you can defend this somewhere? Do you know what can happen? And that would be the drama that the reference could experience, that of '1 October and forward. It's that one day we find that someone, for example, came to the Venice Commission, and the Venice Commission says to us, "Look, this is what you have done, it's an integral piece; not in legal terms, in terms of democracy. We don't want to go through this shame. I'm sorry, we won't vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.587.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. [[Xavier García Albiol asks to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Albiol?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.588.0	Yes, for a... Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.589.0	I've got the word, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.590.0	For a point of order and to relieve us, therefore, the clever spectacle that we are obliged to make the members of Junts for the Yes and the UPC, and that has an obvious impact on the image of this institution. That the twelve least five of the night is to give an hour so that opposition groups can present candidates, it seems to us that it is an insult to intelligence– it is an insult to intelligence. And, therefore, the progress that we will not participate in..., my spokesman has already told us that we will not vote, but it is not that we will only not vote, but that we will not participate in this circus. Oh, come on, if you guys want balls, you've got a few of 'em here that's doing pretty good. Therefore, it is possible to avoid the time they give us graciously to be able to present candidates, because the advance that we will neither vote nor present any candidate. Therefore, this time limit may be reduced. And I stop humiliating the institution once and for all. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.591.0	We shall therefore vote on the amendment to the agenda. The vote begins. The amendment to the agenda was adopted by 71 votes to 60, with two abstentions. [[Miquel Iceta and Llorens ask to speak.]] Yes, yes, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.592.0	It's just that I'll tell him I don't do it anymore, but no one's gonna believe me. But it is really the question that has arisen in Joan Coscubiela, whether the fact of not counting on the support of two thirds prevents us from making the electoral regime and the union as a central piece, is not a minor issue. And I don't know if it's too distressed already that a legal report is required from Parliament's staff on this issue, if it's not abuse. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.593.0	As I said, the modification of the order of the... [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] The alteration of the order of the day has been approved, and an hour is given to submit applications to the Electoral Union, because that is what has been approved. [[Someone's making a shiulette.]] [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Yes, Mrs. Granados.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.594.0	The chairman of my parliamentary group has made a specific request to the president, and we would like to know her answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.595.0	Yeah. Now we're having a table, because, besides, we have Mr. Carrizosa's petition, huh? And, for that matter, we'll have a table and we'll look at it all. Thank you. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]] Mr. Rodriguez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.596.0	Thank you, President. To make a call to the observance of the Rules... [[remorse of the voice]] in order to make an appeal to the observance of the Rules in relation to Rule 88.1, and, basically, to recall that a few weeks ago, this Parliament approved a reform of the Rules which it would agree is taken into account, and, therefore, to appeal to the application of Article 78a, which is that, if not the record, it is that which speaks of the reconciliation of working and family life. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.597.0	We are going to table to settle this petition, but the reminder that the law has been approved for this Parliament, has been published and is therefore in force. [[Eva Granados Galiano asks to speak.]] Eva Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.598.0	Yes, as the debate on this hour is about to come forward, so too is the advance that on the part of the Socialist Group we will not be running for office, and therefore we will also be resigning at this hour in order to speed up this plenary. Thank you. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.599.0	Yeah... any other groups that want to make this petition? [[Pause.]] So... it's suspicious of the session because we're going to make Table... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Carrizosa? [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, will you wait for us? [[Pause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, will you tell me what...? [[Pause.]] Do you want to do...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] All right, so, let's go do Table for the petition to report.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.600.0	It's part of the session. Once the deadline for submitting applications to the Electoral Union of Catalonia has expired, we will now proceed to the election of the members of this Electoral Union of Catalonia. Let's substantiate the point incorporated in the order of the day on the election of the Electoral Union of Catalonia. In accordance with Article 19 and the third final provision of the Law of the Self-Determination Referendum, the applications which have been distributed to them have been submitted. I pray to a secretary who gives reading of the candidatures... [[Funnel veils]] Secretary... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr. Pedret, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.601.0	Yes, to make it clear that, as you have stated, there have been requests for reconsideration concerning this question, and that it seems to us that it was appropriate to resolve them before passing on to what he was commenting on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.602.0	No... secretary, have there been any requests for reconsideration on this matter?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.603.0	If he said yes, didn't he? [[Voice remorse and pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.604.0	Reconsideration petitions about what, Mr. Pedret? It's just that we don't know each other...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.605.0	If I do not have it wrong, that in these hours it could be also, I believe that there are three differences: one, on the decision not to make the request of the legal report that has been requested by our group president; another, that I believe is on the... [[Funnel veils]] , the non-application of Article 176 of the Rules, and I believe that the third is about admission to the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.606.0	But if we've just done a table now to solve this.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.607.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.608.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.609.0	And they solved it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.610.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.611.0	We don't have notification of anything about this. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, of course, no, actually. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, we're all lost. You've decided this, and the reviews relate to this decision you just made. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.612.0	All right, all right, all right, all right, all Let's do this review, and I'll call the Bureau and the Board of Spokesmen. They suspect the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.613.0	It's part of the session. [[Procedure for choosing five syndics of the Electoral Union of Catalonia]] [[284-00028/11]] Let's substantiate the point incorporated in the order of the day on the election of the Electoral Union of Catalonia. According to Article 19 and the third final provision of the Self-Determination Referendum Law, the applications distributed to them have been submitted. I would like to ask the fourth secretary to read the applications submitted.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.614.0	« Candidate of the Electoral Union of Catalonia : Mr. Marc Marsal i Ferret, Mr. Jordi Matas i Dalmases, Ms. Marta Alsina i Conesa, Ms. Tània Verge i Mestre, Mr. Josep Pagès i Massó. And the alternates: alternate first, Mr. Josep Costa and Rossello and alternate second, Mr. Eva Labarta and Ferrer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-09-06-4201.615.0	Next, we proceed to the vote on the nominations submitted. The vote begins. The Electoral Union of Catalonia was approved by 70 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. The Electoral Union of Catalonia is therefore approved. Many thanks to all, and the session rises until tomorrow morning, to the give.
