ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.1.0	The session begins. Too late to all and so to all. The list of questions to answer in the Ple is included in the Ple folder. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated tomorrow morning, to the gods, as according to the order of the day. Before starting the order of the day, I want to guess that today, at the end of point 8, will give reading in the plethora of the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of Homenatge to the Asturian refugees of the Civil War and to the Asturian Center of Catalonia. [[Composition of the Bureau of Parliament]] [[398-00001/11]] The first item on the agenda is the composition of the Bureau of Parliament. First of all, we shall proceed to the election of a new First Vice-President of the Parliament, as a result of the resignation of Mr Lluís Corominas, to whom we wish to publicly aggravate his task and dedication during these years and to wish him much certainty in this new stage which is now beginning as Chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. [[Greetings.]] Mr Lluís Corominas – I am sorry to say – has asked for the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.2.0	Yes, President, thank you. To make a brief intervention. In fact, it is not usual for us to have members of the Bureau and, moreover, to pass to this corner from here; it usually goes from here to there – all that Mr.Iceta has set a precedent. No, basically, first of all, the justification is clear: the Junts Parliamentary Group for Yes has changed its group president; President Turull has become a councillor. First of all, recognize him as the President of Junts for the Yes. I hope I'm up. And then there's some very short graces, if you'll excuse me. Actually, it's not usual that after nine years, then, you pass here. And, therefore, ask for a point of understanding. First of all, to parliamentary groups, precisely, even though it has not been, it is not an easy legislature, I think the role we have at the Bureau has generally been well understood, despite these difficulties. I therefore thank you for keeping this institution in line with the members of the Bureau in general and my own person in particular. Also a thank you to David Pérez and José María Espejo, because, all that we have been against judicially, that it is a complexity that had never been donated, it has not suffered neither the work of the Table nor the personal relationship, that I think is important; to the companions Anna Simó and Ramona Barrufet, because they have made a great team, I believe, and that we have made strong as they went through the circumstances. Well, as I wasn't looking at the paper, I jumped at Joan Josep Nuet, who we also have to thank, above all, apart from the company, also, as a friend of the Bureau, this democratic courage that has demonstrated with its actions, and therefore also put it in value. And to the president, naturally. With the president, practically, so we didn't know each other, and in a very short time we had a wonderful personal friendship. And I think we've gotten along very well. And now that we've had it all together, I've had to get down here. So, I don't know if I'll do it right from here; I'll try not to bother the president too much, now that I know what's going on up there. Well, in any case, an honor, Carmel, to share these intense years and this historical value for our country at your side. I'm done. In these nine years as Vice President, and I am saying this today because it is certain that I will not again be Vice President of the Parliament, which has also filled me a lot is the possibility of sharing with the workers and workers here in Parliament, at this stage, which has been a difficult stage, because we have spent many years with difficult assumptions. I remember when this Parliament had a budget of €80_million; now we have a budget of €50_million. And, on the other hand, Parliament's workers and workers have always made their pockets with great professionalism and also giving them everything. And, therefore, my words also thank the workers here in the house, and I also hope that in this new responsibility I can keep in touch with them. Finally, I would like to say that we have the proposal of Vice-President Lluís Guinó, who we have to thank for his courage. Normally, going to the table... was a quiet place. This has proved, this legislature, that it is not people. And, therefore, the compromise at this time of Congressman Guinó has to be put in value. He is a person with a great personal value – I can, somehow, believe the years we know each other – a great political value as well as a solid legal one that I'm sure will suit him well here at the Bureau. All right, all right, Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. First of all, we shall proceed to the election of the new Vice-President. In order to proceed to the election of the first Vice-President, in accordance with Rule 43.2 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall make a vote by means of papers to be delivered to the Bureau and shall be placed in the ballot box that we have prepared for this purpose. According to Rule 44.2 of the Rules, each Member must write a name to the paper and he or she will be elected to the one who obtains a majority of votes. They shall consider null and void unreadable papers containing a name higher than the requirement or names relating to persons who are not members of the Parliament. Papers without any indication will be understood to be blank paper. I remind the House that the members of the Government who are Members of Parliament and the members of the Bureau will continue to vote that Members and Members do so. Let's go extract a number, and we'll proceed. It has exittel number 68, which corresponds to Juan Milián. Therefore, I am speaking to the first secretary, Mrs Anna Simó, that I started the call of the deputies from number 68, who correspond to the deputy Juan Milián. [[According to Rule 99.2 of the Rules of Procedure, Members are nominally called in alphabetical order to vaginate to the presidential table and place the papers in the ballot box. The deputies who are members of the Government and the members of the Bureau are called at the end.]] Once the vote is over, we shall now proceed to the polls to find out who has been elected as Parliament's first vice-president. [[It goes to the polls and then to the countdown.]] [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's that some of them are 70 and 71, and they're counting back. Second vice president and third secretary disagree. Now let's go back to... [[Long break.]] We finally got it, huh? The final result of the vote was the following: 70 votes for Mr Lluís Guinó, 2 votes against, 59 against and 1 vote for Mr Germà Gordó. Therefore, Mr Lluís Guinó has been elected Vice-President first, by 70 votes in favour. Who do we ask for my job? [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Let's ask him to take his place at the table. The next point of the order of the day... – let me say hello, the first vice president. [[Widow's remorse.]] [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide]] [[270-00005/11]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.4.0	The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Justice on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for an organic law reform law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the penal code, decriminalization of euthanasia and aid to suicide. In accordance with Rules 173 and 121 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of Mrs Alba Vergés, who has been appointed by the rapporteur. It has the word, therefore, the Lady Alba Vergés. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.5.0	All right, thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. First of all, I would like to make a recognizance of all people and entities, as the Right Association to Die Dignity, for perseverance in every step given for many years. The gift of welcome to many people who have come to compare, who are part of this entity, who have struggled for many years for this step that we are making today in the Parliament of Catalonia, and that today they are here, witnessing live, in the Chamber of Parliament, this debate. Also the gifts thanks for putting this question, the right to die dignifiedly, on the political agenda; to gather up mutually; to respect all points of view – basic and essential in democracy – and to insist that politically it is to act, before a majority of society that is favorable to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide, establishing a _framework that introduces the guarantees that they seek in the corresponding regulation. In this intervention, as the rapporteur said, there have been no comments on the proposed law presented by four parliamentary groups– Together for the Yes, Party of Socialists of Catalonia, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and the CUP - Constituent cry –, I would just like to point out what it is today that we approve and what contributions we have been able to gather from the new people who appeared in the Commission of Justice for the processing of this law. I would also like to thank other Members, apart from those who are today as speakers, who intervened because this proposal from you arrived here and arrived at the Commission of Justice; as well as my parliamentary group companion, Mr Jordi Orobig. The proposal for a law has a single article, which presupposes the modification of Article 143(4) of the Law 10/95, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, which proposes, literally, that "it shall be free of criminal responsibility which by express, free and unequivocal petition of a person who suffers from a severe malaise which would necessarily lead to his death, or of incurable pathology which causes physical and/ or psychological hardship and which is permanently foreseen, caused or cooperated with acts necessary for the safe, peaceful and painless death of that person within the framework of the law established. I wanted to express it literally because of the transcendence that this supposes and to put it in the measure that you have. The transcendence is total. At the length of all these years and after more than seventeen debates in the Congress of Deputies, the situations are repeated, but the solutions do not come – this brings us in one of the appearances – and today we do precisely this: to provide a solution. And the measure too. It is also guarded... by the fact that the relevant law will be established where the practice that is exempt from criminal law will be regulated. It may be expressed that the appearances were worth a lot, and that in the development of the law regulating the practice of euthanasia and helping suicide we can certainly rely on their contributions and many others that will also be needed. Thus, the contribution to the debate of bioethics specialists, health professionals and, finally, of the civil society that we have had has been relevant and very interesting. As we also have an extensive report in Catalonia, which is effective, fully effective, after eleven years of having been done. Different comparisons have allowed us to know regulatory experiences in other countries, to know that well-made regulation, precisely, can be the best protection for vulnerable people. They have allowed us to know that leaving decisions in the hands of jurisprudence is not the most desirable if we have the option of doing so through law; that establishing guarantees is not to leave to interpretation of other decisions; that we do not have to establish confusion or want to counter palliative cures with the personal decision of euthanasia or with the help of suicide, but they are to go from arm to arm, such as a company in appearances; that it is not a purely medical debate, but obviously also social; that we have spoken, obviously, and we have not fled from speaking of the stuffed pendent that is so much for and, above all, as it can easily be avoided, of the ideological legitimacy of having a personal position that we do not mean to impose – of any other criminality. And a lot of other things I'm leaving me, because I see that I've confided in time and... [[Pause.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.6.0	Yes, yes; but we can't give him more because he had been assigned two minutes here and I didn't put five...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.7.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.8.0	...because I thought I'd see if we'd make time. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.9.0	I'm trying to finish the anar rapid. Professionals – also in the appearances we were able to see – have explained to us that perhaps it is time to abandon paternalism, to put emphasis on respecting decisions, to share and accompany these decisions; that professionals are abandoned and with their hands tied before the patients' petition in the current legal framework; that they are so important in infirmary – also means doing what the other person would do; that asking for help to die must be one of the hardest things that a person can ask for and that we can't put it even harder; that, although no one would want to find it, we should think that all people can find it; that we have talked about arbitrariness; that we have talked about the patient objectively, if we can. We have talked about safeguards control measures and even parliamentary control measures in a future regulation; and above all, what we have seen in the comparisons is that there was a total consensus of all of them that it is not only possible to approve decriminalization, but that it is an obligation to move forward in the regulation in order to establish all these guarantees. I give thanks to the chamber servants for making it easy, and above all to the different groups, and in this case, to the different parliamentary groups, so that we can have this debate today and that I have been presented to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the initiative to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide come from the Parliament of Catalonia. It is an important step of this Parliament, of the Parliament of Catalonia. We hope that at the Congress of Deputies – and here we have members of the Congress, in the lot, from different political parties to more – we can collect it and we can make it worth the majority position of this Parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.10.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Then, as there are no reserved items, we will start the turn of interventions to fix your position. In the first place has the word Mr Martín Barra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.11.0	Thank you, Madam President. Thanks also to all the people who are accompanying us and Members of Parliament. We are debating the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies a proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law of the Criminal Code, in particular so that, instead of a reduction in penalties, which is currently reflected, there will be a total exemption from criminal liability in the case of cooperation in suicide or euthanasia in persons suffering from serious diseases. It is a proposal that has the majority in this House and will therefore be approved, but to which we want to make some considerations. First of all, we believe that it is worth remembering, although this of course does not mean much less the least impairment of the importance of what will be adopted here today..., this is not the first requirement to Congress in this regard. Similar requirements have already been made in the Basque Parliament. Secondly, various end-of-life initiatives have already been discussed in Congress in this legislature. For example, Podemos presented a law of decriminalization of euthanasia and assisted suicide, which was rejected by a large majority; tried to place it again as an amendment to the whole with an alternative text to our proposal for a law of dignified death, and was rejected again for the second time. And, third, the alternative text for 143.4 of the proposed Criminal Code ends by saying, as Mrs Alba Vergés has read well, that this exemption will be within the framework of the established law. And this is a very important aspect, which should be highlighted. Many of the participants in the committee – and Mrs Vergés has also mentioned this – made special mention of this need and of a law that specifically regulates the conditions and requirements under which aid for suicide and euthanasia would be exempt from criminal liability, and therefore that would give legal certainty to both patients and healthcare professionals; a law that, by the way, should also have the status of organic law. Any amendment to article 143.4 of the Criminal Code must therefore be made simultaneously with the regulatory law. If this is not done, if the Criminal Code is changed, for example, according to the text proposed today, before the enactment of the regulatory law, there would be a situation of legal insecurity. Public authorities should never – never – legislate or act by creating legal insecurity for our citizens, never; but it is especially serious if insecurity affects the Criminal Code and in concepts related to life and death. We do not want the case of Colombia to be repeated, where in 1998 the Constitutional Court, the equivalent of our Constitutional Court, ruled that when a doctor performed euthanasia was justified and would not be penalized if he acted within criteria of compassion and solidarity between human beings, which are criteria that are also contained in the Constitution of Colombia. Well, from 1998 to 2015, in which the law was enacted that clearly specified when it was acting under those criteria, there were seventeen years of legal uncertainty in which everyone understood decriminalization and applied these criteria in their own way, with the problems we can imagine. I am convinced that everyone here agrees to defend the rights of people who suffer at the end of their lives. And for Citizens the first of these rights is to offer quality palliative care. And therefore we have presented a law of dignified death in the General Courts. But in various forums we have been told that this law was not necessary, that there are already autonomous communities that have regulated it – if I have not counted wrong, eight, and there are two that are in process. But we understand that this general law is needed that serves as a common basis for the whole of Spain, because we know of the great territorial inequalities, of the non-recognition of rights, of the lack of comprehensive and sufficient palliative care, deficits that occur even in the communities that already have autonomous law. In a report by The Economist, our country is behind OECD countries in palliative care and end-of-life care. "The fundamental right to quality palliative care is systematically violated in the majority of the State, a categorical and literal allegation by a person appearing before the commission. "In more than 50_per_cent of the autonomous communities, palliative care applies to about 50_per_cent of patients who need it, and are often outdated plans," said this expert. And in the Health Committee, in this Parliament, PADES experts have already warned us on several occasions of the serious deficits in Catalonia. The drama of people who are suffering without adequate palliative care to avoid unnecessary suffering is not indifferent to us, I guess. To Citizens, of course; for that we have presented our law. But it's a drama that affects a lot of people. Experts tell us that around 1.5_per_cent of the Spanish and Catalan population has palliative care needs; tens of thousands of Catalans, hundreds of thousands of Spaniards. It is estimated that, on average, each primary care physician has between twenty and twenty-five patients of these characteristics. Palliative care that does not consist not only in providing them with intensive medication to control their multipathology, but also social measures, such as early recognition of the disability situation or the availability from day one, from the very beginning, of their rights under the Dependency Act. Among these people, there is also a high prevalence of dementia and cognitive diseases, and many of them have severe emotional distress. And there are many scientific studies on the causes that condition the desire to advance death, and the main ones are those: the diagnosis of depression and despair, emotional distress; issues that are treatable, that are reversible in most cases when intensive intervention is applied. No one should want to die for not having palliative care. And we do not question that there is a core population, some specific cases, that would fall outside the framework of our law of dignified death; some specific cases to which a law of euthanasia or assisted suicide could offer them what they seek. That would be two complementary issues. But a law of euthanasia cannot allow us to abandon the implementation of comprehensive palliative care for all those who need it, and the suffering of those to whom the remedies available are not applied cannot justify other issues. The debate may be parallel, but in the case of euthanasia the regulation should occur before decriminalization in order to avoid the legal uncertainty that it previously commented, as in the case of Colombia. In Spain, since the opening of a committee of study in the Senate following the death of Ramón Sampedro in the year 99, we have been discussing this issue, Mrs Vergés has already commented, on many occasions and so far there has not been the necessary social, professional or political consensus. And, as far as political consensus is concerned, it does not seem that there will be anything in this legislature, in terms of the votes that have already taken place. And it is difficult to reach this consensus because it is not just what is called ‘the right to have one's own life, but, as external aid is called for, as the public authorities are committed to providing it, it becomes a more complex and sensitive issue. That is why there are few countries where it is regulated; they are not the rule, they are the exception, and they are not exempt from controversy. I wanted to comment here on the case of Oregon, where it has been decriminalized since the year 97, and despite the fact that one of the criteria for prescribing the lethal drug is that, in case of doubt about the existence of a mental disorder, it is referred to a specialist in the matter to assess whether its judgmental capacity is affected by that possible mental disorder, the fact is that many euthanasias occur in patients with a diagnosis of depression, not with suspicion, and that in the vast majority of cases have not been evaluated by a mental health specialist. In other countries, such as Belgium or the Netherlands, there are cases that at least invite reflection and to take into account that any future law regulating euthanasia should be very guaranteeing, because it is an irreversible fact. In short, the issue we are dealing with deserves a debate away from prejudices, away from all prejudices, away from ideological sectarianisms, and counting on professionals and all civil entities, for and against. The debate, therefore, does not end here today, without doubt, and not only because this proposal, which here has a majority, will arrive at Congress and will be debated there, but also because in an open and socially advanced society such as the Spanish one can deal with all these issues with absolute democratic normality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.12.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Barra. Next, in representation of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.13.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, let me begin, too, as the previous Members have done, giving thanks and feeling my first words of greeting, welcome, but above all thanking the friends and friends of the platform for the right to dignified death; all those who are here today or those who have sent emails say that they cannot be there but that they were also in this debate; those who have also been present in the work of the committee, but above all those who carry years working and persevering in this struggle. Thanks also to the fellows, who were diverse, and who in a few intense sessions of the commission have brought us their acquaintances, experiences, their work, their receipts and their professional day-to-day. After we hear them, the more we can add today, Members and Members, to which they have brought us. Thanks also to the members of the committee, to put it and to the spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups, for the debate it will be, even though not always all agree, but in any case also to impose ourselves that we can make the appearances and at the same time complete a calendar. Today, for those of us who believe it, it is a day of joy, to congratulate us, but I have made it clear that here nothing ends but that we have much work left to do; work because no one else has to die alone as in José Antonio Arrabal. We want to reform the Penal Code because we want to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide, and we want to do it in parallel to put ourselves to work on a law of disposition of our own life. We want to do it to defend the principles of dignity, autonomy and well-being of the patient, we want to do it to defend the right to die worthily and the right to one's own life. José María Mena told us, from his position on the right: "Eutania is a good thermometer to measure the temperature of sincerity of the legislators' willingness to progress. And Marcos Ariel Hourmann, from his experience, told us: "It's so laudable to continue fighting to stay alive... as those who say well, want to end and ask for help. The first have right to choose and a certain social recognition; the second, no. To speak of euthanasia is to speak of death, and death is taboo; above all in an indoctrinate society in the success of happy endings, it is still more, of taboo, the desire to want to die. As we say, this proposal we have to take to the Congress of Deputies, and we have expectations of the majority to the Congress of Deputies for approval, because this supports a great social movement, too, after this demand. In 2007 the percentage of people who said they were in favor of euthanasia was 84_per_cent for our country. We have a favourable state of opinion and we want to seek the highest social and political consensus, along with apprehensions, political opportunisms and prejudices and ideological sectarianisms. We talk about dignity, respect for people's autonomy, as the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia wrote in 2006. Catalonia has always been at the forefront of legislation on patients' rights, a document of early intentions, a struggle against therapeutic empowerment, and also in the development of palliative care. And we have to keep going this way. But it's a parallel path we're talking about today. And we must continue to demand, as we have done here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, that we want equipment pal·liatius twenty-and-four hours, seven days a week; to strengthen the initial and continuous formation of our professionals, the medical, infirmary and social work, because the responsibility of medicine is also to take care of those who do not have healing and also help to die. We do not want to counter, because it cannot be done, palliative cures and euthanasia, because neither the intentionality nor the procedure nor the results are the same. In euthanasia the doctor does not propose, the decision is of the malalt, the domain of the right is of the patient, but it has to be a medical act; the autonomy of the person implies a third person. That is why we need to change the penal code, to decriminalize the necessary medical act, and to train our professionals in the right to die. We must help them to die, but we must also provide them with maximum legal certainty. Euthanasia compromises everyone, it's basically the context, the role of families, understanding it, but it compromises, and a lot, the professionals. His greatest security will not only come from decriminalization, but from the law that must accompany him, the law of disposition of his own life, which must also take care and ensure the legal security of the evil. We must be assured that there is no excesses or misinterpretations. Here the involvement of professionals will be basic. It won't take much innovation, that sometimes we like to be very pioneers..., and we have extensive international expertise, and accomplished work, and at home, as the same recommendations contained in the report of the Bioethics Committee. And it was a parallel job. That is why the Socialist Group asked at the time that we set up a working group to move forward in parallel with decriminalization. It has not been possible, but we will continue to insist, because this law must not only provide legal guarantees, but must aim at the situation of the disease; to contemplate how it expresses its will, with an express request, serious and unequivocal; which people must intervene; what controls and what specific monitoring and supervision committees there are; what roles will be played by the bioethics committees of the hospitals; who will have to respect people and professionals. Finally, a reflection, a very hard reflection, which made us Victory Camps in one of their appearances: it will also be necessary to think about the minors. It's hard to even think about it, but the law will have to think about it, and we'll have to look at it. But today, as I said, is a day of joy, in any case, of hope and of congratulating all of us for advancing, because we carry many years, many discussions, and they owe them to many who have not been there in time. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.14.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next, in representation of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Ms. Àngels Martínez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.15.0	Thank you. Good afternoon. Giving, as it cannot otherwise be, once more welcome, repeating the thanks to the people of DMD and friends and friends who make it possible to arrive at a point – that it will not be a final point, nor much less, it is a point and followed – of a task that we have worked, elaborated, enriched from many years ago – many years ago; you know, you have started it – and that now goes, we will implement it, the farcell, as we have, with all the wealth that it contains, we will implement it in Congress, because it will be much easier to continue writing, developing, proposing after this point and then if we have, if we succeed in decriminalizing this article 143 – it seems that it is – point 4, of the Penal Code. Is it just erasing an article? No, not much less; it is to show that it is a step of maturity as a society, that we know how to perfectly spare all the problems that pass through all the facets of life and death and that in the same way that we defend worthy life we also defend worthy death, and that we do not want to impose on anyone... – he said the other day, he wrote the other day the Miracles Pérez Oliva, in El País –, we do not want to impose on anyone the sentence to live in conditions that are not desirable, that he would want, that he would triage, or that he would triage, just as we do not accept and reject the death penalty. The sentence of life under conditions as Sampedro explained is as large and as unworthy as the same death penalty. That is why it seems to me – and it has already been said, and it has been discussed on the question – that one thing is the palliative cures, that I very much agree that it should develop, extend twenty-four hours to the whole territory, etc., and the other thing is this step, this qualitative leap, in which we as a group have been working for a long time, and that I would rather say that there are visible people and invisible people working. And I would like to say that, as far as we are concerned, there are three Tuesdays that have accompanied this project with a lot of interest: an invisible one– a few people, perhaps, know it–, the Marta Otero, of the group; one visible – has presented motions to respect here–, the Marta Ribas, and then, very close to me, the Marta Sibina, who admired me with firmness, knowledge, expert and passing it with defence of a law in which many of these things that the Suppet Escarp said« is that we must see what they are already seen; they are seen, they are analyzed, they are passed and more than passed, for the benefit of the people who see them living like, in denial of the death penalty. We cannot go on refugee or not facing this failed legislative policy; we cannot legislate because the patients, the patients, the medical staff, everyone has a health care in conditions, a dignified life, etc., and, coming to a point, we raise the scales, we raise the spaces and say: "No, no, we do not want to know anything about it, and we do not accept that helping to die worthily is a more medical act, which must not depend on good manhood, the human quality of the medical staff, continue, continue to be infirm, but it must be a better medical act that accompanies all and every moment of our life until the final moment, and that it cannot be, as Dr. Luis Montes said, that, depending on the lot of the medical team, it must be a medical death or death. It can't be. Politics must intervene, politics must naturally wish that vocations should be accompanied by humanity and not create ethical tensions, a sense of doubt, but must accept that in this Code of Criminal Procedure..., which, in the presentation made by Mr. Mena, in the background, in the background, in the background, and once again, was inspired by a text of 1830 and in the background, when in Barcelona there were still walls..., therefore, it is necessary to overthrow these damages, to overthrow these walls and to open the way to this medical act which you allow to complicate the latter without punishment for the family, or for the person who is there, or for the professional or professional accompanying them. I'd like to end up as I ended up in the past, too, when a doctor from Vic, a specialist in pal·liatius, and Dr. Marcos Ariel Hourmann, one of the people who have been victims of having laid down their medical knowledge and their humanity before that at a certain point in time read the laws. And he, who later – a little, I suppose, as well as a catarsi – wrote that book, To die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die, to die. Like a little of us, it's all of us, isn't it? But the important thing was not to give up before the incomprehensible, to learn how to handle the pain – and that's why the palliative cures are very good, sense of doubt – but the pain from the perspective of not letting oneself be overcome by the same pain, and that every day, however difficult it is to start, if there is an attentive society, if there are policies that know how to give face, there is hope that it is better, and that freedom is something worth fighting for, and that it does not come to freedom from non-compromising and it is not up from indifference, and that in all the facets of life, death, he said – and, I say, also in politics – death, humanity, is the basis of everything. And finally, he concluded that when he loses his por to die, he comes to have the maximum expression of freedom. This, I can do as a collection from a parliament and with a few majorities that every time there are more, before now – by taking this trick of wisdom, of experience, of work, of pain – from Marta and Joan and then coming back to us because we can also do our own law from Catalonia, I think it will be the best that we can get through. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.16.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next, in representation of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word "Mr. Fernando Sánchez".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.17.0	Honourable President, absent advisors, friends of DMD, Member of Parliament Sibina – with whom we had an interesting debate on 8TV a few months ago – a new text on a limited issue is presented today. And we must recognize, ladies and gentlemen, that when one approaches these limited, borderline, borderline issues between life and death, between dignity and patience, between public norm and individual consciousness, when one approaches these limited questions, the questions are always clearer and clear than the answers. And that's why we need to approach these border debates with prudence and sensitivity, because the border is always a fine line, and it's easy to fall. Prudence and sensitivity do not mean neutrality; it means recognizing the difficulty of the topic, it means respecting the looks of others and, starting from this open perspective, taking position, reaching conclusions and defending them. A bill to decriminalize assisted suicide is presented today. And we will vote against it. We did so because we have the conviction that decriminalization would be detrimental to the common social good and to medical practice in particular. We did so because we consider institutional protection of life to be a central pillar of our model of civilization. We did so because we think that our community life, and especially our model of social protection, has as well the ethical imperative of not ending the life of others. And we do this, moreover, because the proposal that is presented today is above all: it is called upon the Congress of Deputies to decriminalize the assisted suicide, but it turns out that during these months the Congress of Deputies has discussed at least twice the laws very similar to these, and proof of this is that there is the deputy who presented it to the Congress of Deputies; in a debate, certainly, it was exciting and it was very parliamentary, for all the interventions, and it is worth reading the acts. A few days later... the Courts rejected it, but a few days later they gave green light to a bill on death worthy of Ciutadans, a bill of law, by the way, of which the PDECAT voted against. Let us now focus on the concrete debate. Ras and short, what we defend is that we can eliminate pain, not eliminate the person who suffers pain. What we maintain is that we must better accompany people at the end of their lives, not end their lives. What we say is that we must put medicine at the service of life and not at the service of the cause of death. It's easier to give a passport to the other life, but it's more humane, it's more civilized, it's more liberating to put the pain, the loneliness, the depression that sees the sick people and that, many times, as has been said before, is the cause that drives to ask to put faith in life. It has to be said that the debate about the end of life is escalating; it is escalating at a time when the technique allows us to broaden our lives but does not guarantee the quality of life. And it is normal for many people to say: "There is a time for everything, for life; there is a time for living and there is a time for dying. But, for this reason, before the therapeutic fleshing, we defend that we must build among all a good human ecology of death. But what is proposed here is not a good human ecology of death; what is proposed here is a technocracy of death. The decriminalization of suicide is the first step towards the industrialization of death. We all want a worthy death. But what does that mean? For us a worthy death means a transfer with the least possible pain, in a climate of intimacy and dignity; it means the possibility of being surrounded and accompanied by loved ones; a worthy death means a conveniently informed end, where the patient's wishes are respected, with the medical, psychological and spiritual care desired. And I think there's a wide scope for agreement here. Before I was told: Congresswoman Marta Ribas presented a few months ago a motion which at first provoked..., she had only one point and caused many differences, but in the end we approved it almost unanimously. There is a great consensus on this path to a good death, between parliamentary groups, to achieve a dignified end to life. We agreed that the Generalitat created this very year an observer of the death in Catalonia, and we have to thank associations like today that accompany us to put the debate on the end of life on the table of the political debate. We will approve of enhancing the document of early vows, because death cannot be only a natural fate, something that happens to us, that claps us, that aixaphs us; death is part of personal life and, as such, we must be able to humanize it, guide it, lead it. We approved giving a strong boost to palliative care; before the deputy of Ciutadans explained to us with enough detail the situation of palliative care in Spain. And what did the government do with all this? What did he do, everything we agreed on? It's not for questioning. But all this, all these measures that we agreed on, this law doesn't talk about it, it doesn't talk about it at all. The law that you present – and I say it with all respect – is very flowing, it is a mandrous law, made from ideological laboratories, and not from the plants of hospitals. The good death deserves more than an article – more than an article – a little less propaganda and a little more work. His companies in Madrid have presented at least twenty articles – twenty articles – but here there is only one point: the decriminalization of suicide assistance; what you propose is that in certain circumstances murder is decriminalized. And the ultimate goal is that the health system and its professionals can become, if necessary, providers of death. Death as health care, that's the point. And that for us is a big mistake, that is, because ultimately the health system is based on trust between the doctor and the patients. But if we give the doctors the keys to death, the whole system is distorted. We want a medicine to serve life, not a medicine delivered to the cause of death. And let's not forget the pedagogical character of laws and social effects that have all the rules. The normalization of euthanasia would interfere with medical practice and investigation, and could also exert subtle pressure, microviolence, if you like to use this language, on the great people who think they may have to take a step at the side. Speaking of euthanasia often speaks of unworthy lives. And I ask myself, where is indignity? The person you're kicking? No, no, Under the conditions of his life. So, then, let's solve the conditions of his life, focus our efforts on solving the depression, the despair, the pain they suffer, and not so much on putting up with the subject he suffers. Clearly, this requires more effort from everyone, and surely we haven't done enough. But we're moving one step further. Because it's true that if there's a strong argument in the proeuthanistic speech, it's the autonomy of the subject, and it's a powerful argument. But I can remember – and I said before the Socialist MEP – that it is not here..., it does not say exactly that, but that here we are not talking about the autonomy of the subject, but how third people intervene in his decision to end his life. So, we're talking about whether the manslaughter allowed to end up becoming a benefit. And, listen, you yourselves recognize that the autonomy of the will, that the autonomy of the subject is a principle and a foundational premise of social life, but it is not the only one. Because you say, "You, with your money, can do whatever you want. No: one part, for social equity and social justice, has to allocate it to do not know what. School, you can't sort exactly what you want, can you? because there is a principle of fairness and fairness also educational, etcetera, that the principle of autonomy of will is not the only one that rules in legislation. We could object, you could object that, of course, here what is proposed is to decriminalize euthanasia in very concrete cases, with full awareness, with full will, in irreversible and striking cases. Well, using extreme cases is... yeah, it's a good one, it's a technical, also, communication, and it works. But legislating from extremes is always complicated. And I need to understand these situations, I need to understand them with empathy; and I honestly say so. Precisely in this line of major empathy was already modified in its moment the Criminal Code the year 95; proof of this is that there were no entries in prison for this crime. But what we can't do is turn extreme cases into legislative criteria and normalize their practice. They've spoken before the hangout, and we think it's true. This is the first step, and I have demonstrated the experience, for example, of Holland, Belgium... A few days ago – and I finish, President – the Dutch Government presented its five-year report on euthanasia. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] The same government recognizes that since 2005 cases of euthanasia have tripled. The Government also states that 23_percent of the cases had not been informed to the Administration as required by the regulations...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.18.0	Mr. Sanchez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.19.0	...and in more than four hundred cases death caused without counting on the explicit petition of the disease. Ladies and gentlemen, we work for good death, we work because no one loses hope, we work because our culture can always be an impulse to life, and not a return...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.20.0	Mr. Sanchez, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.21.0	...before death. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.22.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.23.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First of all, thank you to the friends and friends of the Right Association to Morir Dignament, who are here for you; this seems to be obvious enough. Therefore, thanks for what you have accompanied us, for what you have suggested to us and for what you have pressed us for, in the good sense of the word, to arrive at this moment. And thank you also for the work you did as the rapporteur on the question, you won it, you did it with energy, and you did it with patience. Also, and it has been said, to all the appearances that have helped us to outline a clearer proposal and, above all, to grow much – said the Angels, right? – to grow as much as people, to grow as much in acceptance, knowledge and dignity as we were talking about. I'll... I'll be... I'll be glad to, because I think it's all said, we've discussed it many times, for a long time... And just remember that we, as the CUP - Creed Constituent, will support this proposal, because it comes to Congress and why it reopens this debate that has already been said, deeply fruitful, about euthanasia, and that I open it at the level of the whole State, right? It seems important to us; we are in solidarity with the rest of the people of the State. Now, as we discussed all this, it would be worth thinking that here in Catalonia, and speaking of the right of self-determination, as I mentioned earlier, Salvador Pàniker reminded us: "We could hardly defend the right to collective self-determination if before we did not defend something that is priority, that is personal self-determination. This is why we believe that we should begin to work on the development of a law of our own, a law of law, that which, thanks to the reference of self-determination, thanks to the Catalan Republic that we will achieve, in the book of two things: first, from the constant threat of a penal code that we do not recognize and that we have never made our own, and secondly, from the barriers that we still have at these times to make one of our own, right? Why? Because the law that we want is the law that recognizes the right from home to worthy death, this worthy death, that also gave us before the Assumpt Escarp, right? , with all its complexity, with all the complexity that comes from how we deal with the subject of minors, from where and when the conditions are, to where and to what extent we have to count with pal·liatius, etc. But a law that makes it easier and helps so much from the emotional point of view... I don't mean right anymore, but from the emotional point of view and from the medical point of view, that helps medically to a voluntary and conditional transposition, right? And I think that's where we stand, where we stand today to approve what we approve. And I think that here you will still need much, association Dret to Morir Dignament. We will continue to need you, because we have been able to have a presence and we have enjoyed your vehemence, your courage, and also, I would say, your wisdom, the fruit of a great dose of humanity and conviction in the justice of this right, right? Because ultimately I think that what we've been dealing with all this time is the substantial right to live as dignifiedly as possible and to die with all the dignity I deserve. Thank you to all of you, thank you to all of you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.24.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. Then there's the word the non-attached deputy, Mr. Germà Gordó. Do you want to go out to the Faristol or will you do the escó estant?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.25.0	I'll do it from here. Thank you, President. Agrate the presence of DMD people and other representatives of other entities. I mean, I'm going to vote against it, and it's a vote of no doubt, but I do want to say it's a full vote of responsibility, it's a full vote of conscience and thinking only about the common good, thinking only about the good of people. I understand the rest of the positionings, some of which are very well-reasoned. I've had the opportunity to talk to DMD people's staff, and I understand it, and it's well-reasoned. At last I have to admit one thing: I can make a mistake with my vote. But I must also say that I firmly believe that I would be much more mistaken if I did not vote in conscience. And for that, while respecting the rest of the opinions, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.26.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordó. Next is the word of Mrs. Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.27.0	Thank you, President. Good night, everybody. From the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for the Yes, now, complementing what we have already said in the debate on the Inici..., when we started this plenary session processing, I would like to add, as a summary of everything that we have been listening to the appearances, what sense of doubt the summary is that yes, that we are doing that, when the Catalan society demands, that it is necessary for many and many reasons; that we are taking an important step; that we are taking a practical step out of the criminal field, such as euthanasia and helping suicide, in order to regulate it responds to a social demand, and also counting on a growing social support. Decriminalization is therefore necessary for people to know that they have the right to resort to euthanasia or to help suicide; but to have the right does not mean either to wish it or to have it done. Decriminalization is also necessary for professionals who see current legal provisions; necessary to stop imposing through the Criminal Code a specific and unique will, and to start listening to the multiple and various wills, because they are personal wills of each of the people who can find themselves in this situation. And that's why I want to focus on the opportunities of regulation that comes with decriminalization of euthanasia and helping suicide. Before, Members, say that this was to be done in parallel, and I can agree, but we have to start with a step, too, for which the Member Gabriela Serra gave, in order to have a law of her own, to start working, which is what I believe is near us from this Parliament. The opportunities of this regulation are, in the first place – in the first place – respect for personal decisions. Secondly, the protection of the most vulnerable people, the protection of professional practice, the ethical guarantees, escape from arbitrariness and, obviously, in a regulatory framework that, as I say the comparisons I have written to my book, should be framed in the field of salvation. The differences between us have indicated that the Catalan society has already equipped itself with everything possible to stretch the law to the maximum, trying to guarantee from the legal framework that respect for the will of people who want to make a decision about their own death. We have a guide to informed consent; we have a guide to considerations of early intentions; we obviously have motions approved in the Parliament to promote this document of early intentions; we have the Charter of Rights and Rights of the citizen; we have the recommendations to the professional for follow-up at the end of life; we have the considerations of rebuking the treatment. Catalonia has always wanted to move forward and is a pioneer in palliative care, but one thing does not go away. As we also have an extensive, comprehensive, concrete report on euthanasia and helping suicide in 2006, but as shown by the Bioethics Committee's appearances, it is in full force eleven years later. Eleven years! It's been eleven years since a full-fledged report. We've stretched it all out, absolutely. The first to go are Catalan society, civil society. We've stretched it all with the girls' standards from the same government to regulate attention at the end of life. And now, as Congresswoman Gabriela Serra said, we need this law of ours, this law that we can do from the Parliament of Catalonia, with full sovereignty. And it is true; now we take this farce, which she gave, this farce, and we pass it as witnesses, or the gift, or let us say it as you wish, with brotherhood, with total brotherhood, to all the citizens of the Spanish State, that I hope you serve as a lever to be able to make the change also at the level of the whole State. I want to repeat one of the phrases that we heard in an appearance, which I said..., and for the sake of tranquility also of different groups that have shown themselves against the proposal that we are here today... I said: "The tranquility of knowing that they have right to this appeal helps people until they do not want to resort to euthanasia or suicide aid, but rather to wait with more tranquility for death. And that connects to what Mr. Sánchez Costa gave; yes, it does, it connects a lot. And so, what we're doing here today is neither contradicted nor willing to give quality attention to the length of life, nor wanting to push in any way that people want to go to this appeal..., but to give the tranquility that they can access to this right. We don't give a damn that we've stretched everything. And this is the ultimate meaning and purpose of what we're doing today. And we'll make a regulation that sets the conditions that fall below which we could allow and demand medically assisted euthanasia and suicide, with a clear definition of the concepts, the characteristics that the patients must have and the requirements that will be fulfilled on the part of the health system and the health personnel in decision-making and in action, so as not to leave the professional alone before a real demand that they have of their patients. And above all for what it does to supervision and control and composition and tasks and competencies of the organs that have responsibility for it. No one says that decriminalizing you..., taking from the legal order a practice. What we say is we don't want to penalize it; we don't want to put penances on a practice that is a demand and a respect for the will of people. I think we need to be proud and proud of, finally, answering, after many years of persisting, to a just demand, with the hope that this witness will be collected and can be used well and sent to good port. From the Parliament of Catalonia we will walk alone and walk with the conviction that we have now taken a step, but that we have yet another one that is much more uplifting. But we are sure that the Catalan society is ready and ready, we are sure that we have experts, and we have learned, and I have here all the book of appearances with a content that is exceptional. It takes another time not to sweep – not to sweep – what is the palliative cures, what is the attention at the end of life with what is the recognition of a right that each free will be able to decide whether to exercise it or not. And this witness that the Parliament of Catalonia gives today to the Congress of Deputies with all the fraternity..., that I hope that the wise man will defend different deputies and deputies of the Spanish Congress, whether they are deputies and deputies chosen in Catalonia or not... But we will walk through this regulation still through a working group..., or a new law that will certainly also respond to that which years ago and panys are fighting from the Right Association to Die Dignity and many other people who work in ethics and who work for the recognition of rights to the citizens of Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.28.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vergés. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to vote on the joint text of the opinion. The vote begins. The opinion on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress the proposal for a law amending the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code, decriminalizing euthanasia and helping suicide was adopted by 92 votes to 12, with 25 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of Homenatge to the Asturian refugees of the Civil War and to the Asturian Center of Catalonia]] [[401-00029/11]] The next item on the agenda is the Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of Homenatge to the Asturian refugees of the Civil War and the Asturian Center of Catalonia. I would like to inform the Chamber that the Vice President and members of the Asturian Center of Barcelona are accompanying us. On behalf of Parliament, I welcome you. And ask the fourth secretary, Mrs. Ramona Barrufet, who read the statement.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.29.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of Homenatge to the Asturian refugees of the Civil War and to the Asturian Center of Catalonia. At the end of August 1937 began the arrival in Catalonia of the first contingents of Asturian war refugees, organized for the Sovereign Council of Asturias. In Catalonia was the Centro Asturiano, an entity founded in 1930, the entity in charge of caring for the more than sixty thousand people who found refuge there while the war lasted, under the direction of its principal responsible, José Barreiro. In his task he had the collaboration of the republican institutions and the political and trade union organizations present in Catalonia. Today, when eighty years of that event are complete, the Parliament of Catalonia wishes to pay tribute to the memory of the people who have sought refuge in Catalonia, the Asturiasn Centre of Catalonia and the Catalan institutions and entities that, from the principles of conflict, have attended to the thousands of people who are gathered in Catalonia. The Catalonian Parliament welcomes this well-deserved tribute and invites the citizenry to preserve the memory of those events and of the will of the Catalan society, which today persists before the millions of people seeking refuge fleeing from the violence that has been broken up in the countries of origin. Palau del Parlament, July 25, 2017. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.30.0	The next item is the question to the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Asking the Government about the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization]] [[300-00197/11]] To expose it has the word Lord Rafel Bruguera. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.31.0	Yes; thank you, President, with your permission. MPs and MPs, Councilors, Councilor of Culture, good late. In the first place, counselor, allow me to wish you out and uncertain. For socialists, culture is an essential element of a country's well-being. I can count on our loyal collaboration from the paper, obviously, that we take on useful and constructive opposition, and I can also count on the predisposition of socialists to the dialog and, as far as possible, to the agreement. And today we precisely have an opportunity to prove it to you and me; because, if there is a political will – and already the advance that we have in total – there is scope for reaching satisfactory conclusions for both sides and, therefore, for a principle of agreement on what it does to the subject for which it is asked. I hope, I will try to convince you, I hope... to see if I can handle it. Today, twenty-five years ago, the inauguration of the best Olympic games in modern history, Barcelona 92. Beyond the sport horizon, the games also became a success because they were seen and taken together as a unique project and opportunity for the country and counted on the involvement of all the administrations and the enthusiasm of the Catalans and the Catalans. I think it's worth remembering today that we have a country that runs the risk of social and political fractures. Maybe someone can ask what they want to see the Olympic games with the inquiry that I formulate on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. I hope that at the end of my intervention the parallelism will end. In any case, the lesson given to us by the Olympic Games should always be present and never forget it. A few years before the games had gone by as another great project of the country, this clearly political, around the need to protect, enhance and improve the learning, knowledge and use of Catalan language, as an essential element for the cohesion and social integration of Catalonia. In short, we are obviously talking about the promotion and normalization of the catalá. This great country agreement, which some would describe today as a state structure, was especially to star – and to say especially and not only – the PSC, the PSU and the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia, with key characters – and would not want anyone to feel marginalized – like Marta Mata, Maria Aurèlia Capmany or Aïna Moll. This agreement came into being in two great strategies, with two great pots, which were drawn and implanted at the length of the second half of the 1980s and the first few years of the 1990s. In the first place, the model of linguistic immersion at school, which the socialists have defended and defended, was based on a single educational network that rejected segregation and apostatized for integration. The first language immersion program, the PIM – so it says, so it goes – is completed in 1983-84, and it is not by chance that it has implanted in nine schools of Santa Coloma de Gramenet. The 92-93 course in Catalan reached the totality of the country and was converted into the model of teaching throughout Catalonia. And according to the great agreement of the country, according to the great pot: the model of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, of which the assemblies– all, but especially the Catalanists and the left-wings– we used to be – in fact – the main promoters and defenders. That's why it's been 20 years. So, well, today we run the risk of breaking one of these two pots, one of these two great chords, the Consortium Model for Linguistic Normalization, agreed almost thirty years ago. The Government has submitted a modification of the statutes of the consortium that breaks, in our view, this agreement and this consensus. And fractures for two reasons, one formal and one substantive. The formal reason: we are ahead of a unilateral decision by the government, without any dialogue and much less in agreement with political forces and consortia. And the reason: we disagree with a good part of the concrete content of the modifications that are intended to be made to the statutes of the consortium. Ras and short, counselor, the modification that is intended means that the assemblies become a secondary role, a role of companion in the consortium. Sure, pay and shut up, or pay and believe. What are we basing on to make this statement? For the Socialists, the proposal, as it stands today, is unacceptable for different reasons. It is a proposal, as I have already said, unilateral, opaque and presented directly to the governing bodies of the consortium, a government where the generality in the majority. Break the initial dialog, I also commented, between local authorities and the government at the time of defining language policies in the territory. They are marginal to locals, who lose their capacity for analysis and decision-making and only become obliged. The proposal means an absolute re-centralisation of the consortium. The government now has the majority and absolute control of both the board of directors and the plethora of the councils of the linguistic normalization centers of the territory. These, the normalization centres, are now presided over by a representative of the Generality in the accounts of a mayor or governor, who establishes the existing statutes. The council's plel loses power of debate and decision. The board of directors, the presidency and the management are now in absolute control of the entire consortium – programs, plants, assumptions, etc. – and the whole body must not be informed or informed. The criteria on which the proposal is based to establish economic obligations are also not explained, beyond that it is a population number criterion. Finally, there is an important change to the restriction of consortia at the time of doing duplicate linguistic normalization activities or at the margins of the consortia's programs. Currently this restriction affects both the Generality and the municipalities; our statutes limit it only – or the proposal of our statutes – to the municipality, and the Generality is freed from this compromise. Counselor, why? Why this change? What are you listening to? Who's the intent? Is it an open door to the privatization of some of the consortium's programs? We'd like to be swallowed by doubt. These are some of the main reasons for the discrepancy in the proposed states. Counselor, don't deny the Major. That is to say, we do not deny the need to reform, modify and update the statutes of the consortium. We understand that it is necessary to adapt to the Law of Legal Regime of the public sector, and we can also hear the obligation to adapt to the ARSAL, even though it is a law that we, as you know, do not agree and want to repeal, but we believe that to make it the contest of parliamentary groups and especially the dialogue and agreement with the consortia, with the joints, through the municipal associations – the Federation of Municipalities and the Catalan Association of Municipalities. We do not need to be told that the proposed amendment of the statutes will count on public information in which everyone will be able to say theirs, because the statutes will finally approve them by the Government and may not take into account the submissions submitted. We defend and propose that the text that is submitted to public information has been pre-emptively counted on the participation of the consortiums; that it is, therefore, already equipped with an agreed principle, both institutional and political. What we're proposing to him, counselor, is not a distraction maneuver to leave the reform of the statutes alone, I mean it seriously, I mean it. We believe that with voluntary cooperation in a few weeks, in a couple of months, agreement and consensus can be possible. I'm done, counselor. It does not put the joints in the disjunctive of approving or rejecting unilateral statutes in its municipal plethora. I repeat for the first time: I call for an early agreement. And I return to the principle of my intervention: our predisposition to the dialog and the agreement is total. The proof has it in the fact that we have not had any inconvenience in getting him the position of the party before the inquiry that I am now formulating. I hope that you interpret it as a gesture to the dialog and to the whole and, moreover, with all frankness and sincerity. And now I'm done: a few weeks before the day of today's twenty-five years ago, on June 13, the Olympic flame was rescheduling to my people from Olympia. The ceremony that was hard to term carried by slogan: "Empuries port, Empuries bridge, Empuries port, Empuries pact. For me, it's one of the best definitions of federalism that the socialists defended. Counselor, let's begin to recover the federal expertise we had practiced on important country issues at other times, as I explained to my intervention. We fold at the port, we build a bridge between each other, we open the door to the dialog and we follow a pact. The general interest of the country will surely be grateful to us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.32.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. Reply by Mr. Lluís Puig, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.33.0	Thank you very much, President. MPs, MPs, deputy Bruguera, first of all, I will ask the condescendence of the assistants in this premiere of my paper. Since you mentioned these origins of the consortium, tell him that at that time I was here at the back, guarding with the Fire Extinguishing Service of the Barcelona Assembly, and from now on I may have had occasion to come to this Chamber in different circumstances, different motives and always with total and absolute respect for the work that has been done here. Therefore, tell you that a pleasure, being able to start today, and being able to start today from this responsibility talking about a topic as fit for the country as is the Consorci de Política de Normalização Linguística. I also thank you for quoting Maria Aurèlia Capmany, because precisely the government has just declared the year to come Any Capmany, the year that will be one hundred and fifty years from the birth of the Aureli, of his father, and the centenary of the birth of the daughter, Maria Aurèlia Capmany. So, two very different characters of dedication, but with an unquestionable background and cultural backgrounds, it seems to me, on the part of everyone who makes a bit of a historical visit to the country, let's say it, right? So, you serve this grace as well as the extended hand for this dialog that today allows us to make from here, let's say it, right? We are close to taking 'lde doubtes' because precisely the adequacy of these statutes to a current legislation is essential to us. It may seem anecdotal, but, of course, twenty-nine years ago – you seem to have a little bit of the fatherhood of creation – so there was a motherhood, which was the government that was there at that time. So, I guess from all the sides of the hemicicle it coincided with some foundational goals at the time of a country that had gone from little to little, let's just say, isn't it? Today we are close to joining this consortium in a public administration. It has to be registered, we like it or not, and in order to complete European laws too, this consortium has to be registered with one of the public administrations, the one that provides the most resources, and it has to display, as at least, 51_percent of the governing bodies. 51_per_cent, not 60, not 70, not 80_per_cent, not 90_per_cent, as is the assumption that it is, the Government of Catalonia, get to bring it in a transition of five years, eh? The process..., you know that with five years there is a proposal to bring in 90_percent of the cost – which I do not like to say cost – of the reversal to make this consortium. And yet, in keeping with his sensitivity to the governance of the local world, he has incorporated a clause that seems to us..., well, "it seems to us, no: that 129 of the local authorities that are part of the consortium have said that yes and six municipalities have told us that they do not like them, but 129 in the local authorities say yes, that it is: two thirds of the parliament must approve these decisions. So, two thirds is higher, I get a little bit of letters, but you'll know that two thirds is a lot more than a 51_per_cent. Therefore, I mean that important decisions are already contemplated... sorry. And I also have to say that this has been incorporated into the proposal of the Barcelona Assembly, I don't know who, but that the Barcelona Assembly has made this proposal and is incorporated into it. I repeat: two thirds of each ple are the ones that will end up approving the plans and projects for each municipality. It seems to us, therefore, a way not to re-centralize but to the contrary, to continue to give value to the municipalism that seems to me to be that the Democratic Party and its predecessors, Democratic Convergence, have always had as an actiu, as an important value in the territory. These current statutes, think of the following. There are centers, like Girona's, I seem to remember, that have about twenty adscript municipalities. Do you know what you mean by managing that if you buy a computer that is worth a thousand euros per pactael 35_percent of this computer, or is it, 350_euros, you have to approve on behalf of the twenty municipalities that are part of this center? These are the statutes that have not been in place for twenty-nine years with eight or nine municipalities. I see you're the counselor, I'm sorry, Congresswoman Rigau, you're smiling. She must remember these beginnings. There wasn't much more of a town hall. We are now talking about 135 locals and that we cannot afford to manage it, from the purchase... or another case – another case – clear: if a consortium worker asks for a transfer and earns a place in another place and leads to his last five three years, to the destination where he has won the place, that together closes him paying all those more triennis that he did not count. Therefore, there are some formulas that at first with the ingressor expert to pull in front of this consortium, they did not plant. Now you say, man, experience shows us that there is a volume of important management work. As a result, meetings and work to talk about it have been done very much – very much. I would also like to make it clear that there is no mistake: we are not approving the Statutes here today: we are approving the principle of processing. It means that the processes of hearing and debate and reflection are there. Some data: the business committee is fully in agreement with this setting of states. Not with the end of these statues, I repeat it, I repeat it. So it's a little bit, too. We know, of these five or six municipalities that do not agree, if you want to name them, you know that they are Barcelona, Prat, the Hospitallet, Santa Coloma and Sant Andreu de la Barca, but municipalities like Lleida, Sant Pere de Ribes and Terrassa voted for it. Therefore, we are not making war for or against the PSC; we are working for the linguistic policy of Catalonia. And, therefore, I also wanted to highlight this aspect. It is clear to you, ladies and gentlemen, that at this time the consortium is seven hundred people working, which means 50_percent of all the Department of Culture. The rest are seven hundred more people who are dedicated to the management of libraries, archives, scenic equipment, etc.; therefore, of a matter of vital importance to us. There is a very long relationship of meetings, of work, of consensus with many municipalities, with many local councils. An example I'll also quote. For example, the eleven regional councils of the Segria, which applaud the proposal of these new statutes, which does not mean that they cannot be better, I also agree. And concretely some of the things that you mentioned in his... that's how much time I have left, huh? Forgive me. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You were quoting some concrete case. For example, of controversy with the subject of vice-presidency. That the first vice president is from the same Department of Culture is a very simple thing. If one day the President of the Centre, who corresponds to the Generality, cannot attend it, it is logical that he delegate it to the First Vice-President. But if you consider that no, that the first vice-presidency must be of the assembly, we will agree; this is not war. If you consider that, of the eight vowels, there must be three around here, four around here, and we add, we stay, we divide..., that's what we agree on; that's no problem, that's it. Why in the end – in the end – only with the consent are the political goods applied in themes, above all, of the language, of the Catalan in the territory, eh? So, we're not going to make war on it, that's why. Especially because it's just today that this process starts; therefore, there are times for you to speak more still and find these points against you. I don't know if I'm leaving anything to you right now, but with what I'm sure I'm going to have to do with it again, if I've left some argument – which I'm sure, and given the nervousness that you don't want to answer – I'm going to reserve myself for the second time. Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.34.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Puig. Then there's the word "Mr. Bruguera."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.35.0	Thank you again, President. Counselor, I didn't talk to him about vice presidents; I mean, I didn't come to talk about the article's realization, etc. I came to talk to him about the model. I came to talk to him about something more global. Not everything else; not vice presidents or whether the economic part, chapter I, has to assume it the Generality and the joints assume the rest of the chapters, etc. I didn't come to talk about this, because it seems to me that it's not the place to talk about it, I came to talk about the model. And the model that we defend, which is the continuity of the model..., that we do not discuss – we do not discuss it in absolute – that is to be updated, I have recognized that it has to be adapted to the law, etc., therefore, we do not question it. What we are telling you is another thing; what we are telling you is that the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization was born at a historical moment through a pact between the Generality and the joints, and this pact must be maintained if we do not want the joints to feel apart, feel marginalized from the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization. And they pull for the right and do their own policies, from the point of view of the normalization of catalá and catalá courses, for example, to new people, and that will be a mistake. And, therefore, let's not force this. And what we're saying to him is another thing: let's sit down; rather, let's sit down, you, with the assemblies. With the Federation of Municipalities I do not know that there has been talk – I do not know. Well said, I'm against it. The Federation of Municipalities, as such, has not spoken to you more than..., from having a proposal to modify states. Then, yes, of course, they complained. So let me be clear, Counselor, that we are talking about something else. We don't come here today to discuss whether this article, if any, absolutely. We're here to talk about model and concept and country. And I add a new argument to the exhibits in the first intervention. We do not open a dispute front again in the consortium, we do not put the future of the consortium at risk, counselor; we continue to bet on it, as a strategy of the country's conjunction for the normalization of the català. For us, the real debate is job insecurity; the lack of workers in many of the normalization centres in the territory; strengthening the compromise of joint ventures in the objectives and programmes of the consortium; the social invisibility suffered by the consortium for a long time; the need to have more resources, more premises, more courses in the territory. These are, in fact, the themes that we would like to talk about, and discuss, with you, that are the real problems of the consortium. We do not debate the statuses of the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization, because the real problems of the consortium are others, and you and I know it perfectly well. The demand that local administrations share the consortium's government in little equal terms, especially the language normalization centres, the fact that we want the normalization of the use of catalá to be done with rigour, is done with seriousness, efficiency and efficiency, attend to the socio-linguistic diversity of villains, towns and cities in Catalonia. Counselor, you can't do good Catalan normalization programs without taking into account the reality of the country. And the best acquaintances in the country are obviously the municipalities and their assemblies. Menystaining them would lead to a setback in the idea that the català, counselor, is the language of all; I subraise and repeat it: of all the catalans. And advance the hope of the motion that we will submit subsequent to the inquiry. He'll say two things. First, stop the publication of public information on the reform of the statutes of the consortium; and, second, open a period of consultations with parliamentary groups, and especially with the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia and the Catalan Association of Municipalities, to arrive at a consensus text for public information. That's what we're gonna say. Therefore, I have no problem in advancing it. And I will tell you more: if you show your clear commitment in this sense, we would not have any inconvenience in withdrawing the motion before or during the debate of your own Ple. Therefore, you see that today we do not come to discuss the article – with forgiveness, which is very important – but we come to discuss the model and the maintenance of the model. And the model passes because the agreement between the Generality, between the government of our country and the assemblies continues as it has been...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.36.0	Mr. Bruguera, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.37.0	...as we've been working folds for thirty years. Thank you, President; thank you, Counsellor. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.38.0	Thank you, Congressman. There's a word from Councilman Puig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.39.0	Thank you, President. I don't know if I can answer it, because something seemed to explain it before. When we defended the model, it was already recognizing the professionalism of excellence of these seven hundred professionals that day by day and throughout the year are working. We know that there were moments of glory when there were a thousand people working in the consortium, and that started from another number: 350. So now we're in a size of seven hundred people. Probably missing more, but with seven hundred people working, they're doing almost 3,500 face-to-face courses in Catalonia, huh? , more than two thousand linguistic pairs that work constantly. Finally, I wouldn't want to extend'men figures of the import of the job that is done, but in case someone of you didn't get the memory of 2016, I have seen that 66_per_cent of these inscriptions that give them..., I forgive, of the 75,000 inscriptions, that is 5_per_cent more respect to 2015, 66_per_cent of these 75,000 inscriptions correspond to foreign people. Therefore, we are very clear about who we are going to and the task that this consortium entails for, in short, cohesion. If this 66_per_cent of 75,000 people going to the courses, of foreign origin, do not fessin these courses in català surely there would not be the model of cohesion, coexistence, sharing and coexistence all folds. So, the model works, yes, but with some statues anchored in the past that we know they don't work for us. And on this we agree, on this we find ourselves, and we know that we need to improve them, that we need to update them. Further away from our intention to do something against the Federation of Municipalities or the Catalan Association of Municipalities, but the relationship of interviews, of working meetings with many gatherings and many local councils will not read it here because I sure would lack time. Dialeg gains don't fade today, and I thank Mr. Bruguera's extended hand, who gives us. Tomorrow I know you have an interview with the Director General of Language Policy, so we're not appalling anything. Fans of... When I first told you that topic of the two thirds, it was only symbolic; not to enter the joint, yes symbolically, because you see even all the sensitivities that proposals have already rejected different political sensitivities or forms of hearing the territory are already incorporated. Therefore, it is only a theme that the three years that it has been working since the Directorate General for Linguistic Policy, three years that it is working, can continue summarily and summarily. Now, the government has to rule; while the opposite is not said, the government has to rule. And we need to be able to get these statutes approved, because, if not, these statutes do generate an offensive to the current situation, and an offensive that causes stress to the same workers, excellent professionals in the management of linguistic policy. So we can not dilate, but we can not shut up. We have to find the right and necessary time, that we don't seem to spread and not rush. Surely, this speed of digging..., maybe it won't seem to all of us if we go to eighty per hour because there is contamination or if we can go to one hundred and twenty; here we can differ a little bit over, the photographic radar, to which speed we pose. But we have to sail. And we have to navigate because society seems to us... above all managers, those responsible for these issues ask us. All the work that has been done has not been done with opacity people. I have to say and make it clear here that it has not acted on the sidelines of the governing body. All the meetings that have taken place are public events and available to everyone. Everything that's been done and talked about is at everyone's disposal. Therefore, I would also like..., this offer that I have made clear to all the groups represented here: that any concern, any desire to know, there are girl acts and signs and approvals of all meetings and all work. We have no desire to politicize, but to manage is a form of political fer, we will not deceive ourselves; we do not want to politicize it partisanly, but it is clear that the position of government must be an attitude, a position before that management. I repeat: we are in favour of municipalism and territory. And when I put these examples of the eleven Lleida communities or five municipalities to him, they said yes or no, that's precisely why we're going back and working all over the territory, from Alcanar to Sort, so to speak, from north to south, let's say it, right? Therefore, with the will to cooperate, you will always find us, Mr Bruguera. And I thank, I repeat, the opportunity that gives me, more than that, to debut today, and so hastily, when I no longer join one of the newest advisors, when by the circumstances of life it turns out that then, pam-pam, you stop being news and you're almost veterans, in this bank, in the end, right? Therefore, I would like to entrust a little bit with the institutions, the directors, the workers and the citizens, because the service that they are to provide is, in short, important transcendence and so much good that these statutes serve us for thirty years more than the future of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.40.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. The president laughs.]] That's all right, Counselor. [[Asking the Government about the challenges of security policy]] [[300-00198/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the challenges of security policy presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Esperanza García" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.41.0	Well, thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor..., welcome – welcome, Mr Forn. This is your first session of control as an Interior Advisor and the truth is that I would like to wish you, I say, the same successes as your predecessor, Mr. Jané, and fewer mistakes, although the truth is that there were few. It's rare that opposition praises an outgoing counselor, but it's reality, isn't it? Look, just a few weeks ago you were appointed, just after a purge of councillors from that bicephalic government of Puigdemont and Junqueras, and you've already taken false steps, and that's why we questioned you – we didn't give you nearly enough time to join – to ask for explanations. And that's the reason for this interpellation. On 3 April, just..., on 3 July– sorry–, just began the purge. Exit shot: a clean one; a clean one among all members of the government who did not coincide or who were not, in public or in private, absolutely willing to offer their assets as bail and to embrace the stellate as their only flag. That was July 3rd. He began the purge with Counsellor Baiget, because he doubted that a referendum would be held in October. And then he went on; he went on with Munté, with Jané and also with Ruiz. With regard to Jané, who is his predecessor, he was joined a few days later by the resignations of the director of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr. Batlle, and the director of 112, Mr. Adan. I must tell you that, since the democratic restoration, the Mossos d'Esquadra have been a very modern police force; modern, young, integrative, with a vocation of service, assistance and help. Come on, what must be a police corps of the 20th and 21st century. This young body has made a lot of efforts also when there have been difficulties, the budgets, which have also affected them, and they have greatly improved their quality of service to the citizens – I repeat: to the citizens, they serve the citizens of Catalonia –; a body that in the end is the first administration responsible for ensuring not only the security of the citizen, but also that it is a fully integrated and integral police throughout the territory; that serves to approve and equate the local police that exist throughout Catalonia, of almost a thousand Catalan municipalities, and that has collaborated, therefore, with the forces and security bodies of the State, therefore, to exercise all the competences that it has transferred and to give stability, security, guarantee coexistence, public order, the integrity of the citizens living in this country, which is Spain, because that is what they have done during all these years. It can be said, in the end, that this security that has depended on several actors in Catalonia has worked reasonably well over these years, among other things, because they have been coordinated on the basis of unique principles, which are respect for the law, enforce it and the public service, those values that have given us all those good results. Look, after Jané was stopped, you've already started making controversial statements, statements that are just the opposite that requires all that the police forces require, which is security, trust, stability and clarity. Well, you made statements just in the opposite direction. That, on the one hand. The second case was that you, therefore, decided to appoint Mr. Pere Soler as director of the Mossos d'Esquadra, and that appointment, which allows you, therefore, to make a..., choose between people of your trust for leadership positions, sometimes not to marry what is needed, right? , to drive. We believe that Mr. Pere Soler surely meets the requirement of what Junqueras and Puigdemont had to ask the new advisors: "What are you willing to do for independence? And I imagine that some counselors said: "Everything is needed, is it not? And surely Mr. Pere Soler, then, also met that requirement. But what it does not fulfill is neither with the temple nor with neutrality nor independence that requires such an important command on which the leadership of no more than seventeen thousand police officers will fall. Do you think that seventeen thousand police officers can be under the command of a person who writes barbarities on his Twitter, such as "the Spaniards pity me, "I don't speak to the Spanish zombies, "Susana Díaz passes with the rebujito? Do you think that's the right profile? We have asked you to reflect these past few weeks, because we consider that this hyperventilation of the Hispanic that has this lord and, finally, that dressed machoism, that has it, is not suitable to direct 17 thousand police officers in Catalonia. And what a rectification. It can be rectified. You are in time to rectify that shame of appointment. In addition, we also ask you to clarify us and even correct those statements where you, in different interviews and acts, are able to affirm things that are incompatible with each other, that is, that the Mossos are going to comply with the law – they are going to comply with the law – and they are not going to hinder justice and they are going to help ensure that this illegal referendum is held. Listen, you have settled the principle that, the dilemma that Hamlet had, of being or not being, in a pen. You can't do both things at once; it can't be that the police, the Mossos, are democratic police, the one that enforces and enforces the law, and it's the process police, the one that guarantees illegal referendums, which is what you want. Therefore, one of two: either deceives the Government that has appointed him, or deceives the citizens, or deceives the agents of the Mossos d'Esquadra. What exactly do you claim with these claims? Because in the end the police in Catalonia have three functions: security, judicial and administrative, and you have to ensure that they comply exactly with the three, because, ultimately, the democratic police is not a political police; the police have a uniform of generosity, vocation, struggle, public service. Out there, all these mossos, men and women, are willing to wear the public service uniform proudly, and not to be manipulated, and to put before their personal interests and their personal opinions..., because today, inside the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, although it is irrelevant, there are all kinds of political sensibilities, but they put before all that the public service, ensuring with dedication and professionalism that coexistence has rules that are respected. And you're raping them with those statements. And I want you to send them a message of tranquillity, which is what an Interior Advisor should do. I must say that in the end the police, and the Mossos d'Esquadra are no exception, they are not, as it is natural, willing to assume neither ships nor bankruptcies, not even to defend party interests, not even to support them in the end until their reckless bet, which is what they intend to do with this illegal referendum. What they are for is to protect the population. By the way, a population that values the Corps of the Mossos d'Esquadra very positively, so much, that in the latter CEO is the second institution most valued by Catalans, the second institution, right after the universities. And do you know why it is one of the most valued institutions throughout Catalonia, along with the National Police and the Civil Guard, by the way, which are the fourths, much more than the Government of the Generalitat and even that this Parliament, unfortunately, is the truth, that is what has happened? Because among other things the Mossos d'Esquadra, apart from being good professionals, apart from having overcome the obstacles of being a young and sometimes not very expert body [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , they have been consistently overtaken in their service in recent years, and, above all, they are politically neutral, because they firmly believe in democracy. And the police forces in democracy are politically neutral; they do not defend dogmas, they do not defend faiths, they do not defend the dreams and chimeras of others, but they defend and put themselves at the service of the citizenry, and that is why they are the most valued. I ask you, among the questions I have already done to you, several things. What instructions are you going to give to the commission of the Catalan police, which is in charge of coordinating with the local police by October 1st? Will local security boards be convened on that date? I see that it does not point; perhaps it is very clear, what it will answer. Will you ensure the performance of the functions of the judicial police of the mossos before any, obviously, legal aid, as they have been doing so far, if required to do so? Are you going to respect your predecessor's agreements at the Catalan Security Board, coordinating with the rest of the forces, that this is what the previous Jané Councillor signed just before and casually a few days away was ceased? Are there going to be changes in the general direction...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.42.0	Mrs. Garcia, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.43.0	...of public safety? Tell us that, because, among other things, what today is a crime on Day 1 will be a crime and so will Day 2. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.44.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. Reply by Mr. Joaquim Forn, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.45.0	Well, thank you very much, President. Members... Mrs García, first of all I would like to express that it is an honor for me to be here at the rostrum of this Parliament and to do so in this case as an Interior Counsellor. I also came to you because I said, "Look, you will have the opportunity to explain, precisely, the reptes, the reptes that the Interior Counselor has. But I do see that you're very interested in all this inside advice. You focus your debate on knowing... in the process, that's the only thing they care about. But we, look, we are a government that interests us in other things, that we are interested in bringing forward the country, that we are interested in answering in security matters those questions that affect the citizens. And so, so, today, thanking him for his inquiry, I'll come and explain exactly what we're going to do and who these political challenges are. You were asking for a message of tranquillity. Home, therefore, I assure you that in your intervention, calmness, very little. The message of tranquillity will be given by me explaining precisely who these security policies are and what they will be based on. From the outset I wanted to say that I am counting on the full cooperation of the Secretary General, the Directorate General of the Police, the Directorate General of Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue, the Directorate General of Civil Protection, the Directorate General..., the Catalan Transit Service, the Institute of Public Security and the Centre for the Care and Management of Emergencies, 112, Catalonia. As you know, our department has the mission of ensuring public security in its broadest sense, its function is to promote public policies necessary in the area of citizen security, emergencies, road safety, civil protection and all that affects citizen coexistence and the security of people and assets in Catalonia. The Government of Catalonia has shown with credit that one of its priorities is the continuous improvement of public security in the country. Planning, coordination, prevention and proximity are some of the basic pillars of public safety in our country. Our security model is based on emergence and first level police. It is these who guarantee the free exercise of the rights and freedoms of people in Catalonia. The security challenges in a changing society like ours involve a great complexity, and this is enhanced by globalisation, global interconnection and the new technologies. Therefore, security management has become a high-requirement issue on the part of all actors involved in security. Today I can hear security in its broader concept, since I can give an answer to more complex and dynamic factors. Also, citizens have more information and knowledge about their rights in security matters; therefore, it is a requirement both in solving problems as in anticipating and preventing them. You said it yourself, Catalonia is a safe country. And we're happy with the police we've all given each other. In the later years, citizen security shows a trend of growing growth, where from 2009 to 2016 there is a constant reduction in fetal crime. For example, in the year 2009 the statisticians placed in 575,000 fets dellictius, while in 2016 they have dropped to 487,000; therefore, a 15,23_per_cent menys. In this period, too, from 2009 to 2016, it should be noted that 83_percent of crimes are against property, which also show a decrease of 8.8. And in this period, crimes against people have assumed an 11_per_cent, which represents a decrease of 19.7_per_cent. Catalonia has one of the lowest victimization taxes in Europe, and stands at 0.71 per hundred_ thousand inhabitants. With regard to organized crime, a total of 117 organized criminal structures were dismantled in 2016 and 889 persons related to these crimes were detained. Genre rape continues to be one of the priorities of the Department of Interior: 15_percent of homicides committed in Catalonia during 2015 were in this area. For this reason, two risk assessment questions have been promoted for female victims of gender-based violence to further protect the potential victims of male violence. Currently, we are in phase 4_on_5 of terrorist threat. From the Squad Coast is destined 30_percent of the hours of preventive patrolling to the Pla anti-terrorist operation, and by the year 2016 more than 1,600,000 hours of patrolling have taken place. The perception of the citizenry about security in Catalonia is very good. As you have also mentioned, the Catalonia Public Security Survey indicates that the perception of security has increased by 6.9_on_10, and, moreover, the same CEO places..., the generation of 2017 the citizen insecurity has become a 9_percent of the problem..., a 9.9 year 2016; therefore, a very low level of concern. For what it does to the main challenges, which is what I was asked, and to the principles of action, in the matter of citizen security, to consolidate the current security model and reinforce the identity traits: democratic, citizen service, efficient, modern and effective; implementation of preventive and reactive strategies towards the terrorist threat; follow-up and compliment of the agreements of the Catalan Security Board; expansion of the staff of the Mosso d'Esquadra; acquisition and renewal of equipment and material resources; fight against crime, and implementation of the Platform for Security and attention to victims of male or domestic violence. In the issue of emergencies: strengthening the full management of emergencies by mitigating the action of operating objects involved; strategic analysis and planning of the deployment of material resources and infrastructures; strategic analysis and planning of human resources for the prevention and extinction of fires; enhancing local civil protection and better coordination and cooperation with local authorities and councils; reviewing civil protection plans to adapt them to territorial and sectoral realities, to make them more effective in emergency situations. In the field of road safety: reduction of the number of victims in the Catalan road network, as well as the severity and consequences of traffic accidents; development of the three-year road safety plan 2017-2019; cooperation with local road safety plans; conduct of campaigns and awareness actions; review of the speed of lanes and weighted use, preventing speed controls; expansion of the road safety service to provide immediate psychological attention. Conclusion.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. We can define that the political lines of the Department of Interior established as priorities for the proper months are, in the first place, the struggle against the anti-terrorist threat... Senyora... Yes, Senyora García... Senyora García, no, commented on the priorities, eh? Counter-terrorism cabinet. We gathered two days ago precisely the counter-terrorism cabinet to review, to see and to present new measures for the counter-terrorism struggle. Secondly, the reduction of left-handedness to the reels, with the goal of zero victims at the time. Precisely this morning we met with the motorcycle group, as there was an increase in accidentality on motorcycles and, therefore, we had an important meeting with the whole sector. Development of the forest campaign. Meetings, we also had the commandments; we would have a visit to Bellaterra. But above all we have continued to work on developing the strategic plan that was recently approved. Protection of the most vulnerable groups, improvement of the capacity for preventive management of emergencies, deepening of the IHSPR university training study, promotion of communication and civic participation mechanisms, improvement of the definition and implementation of local security policies, promotion of awareness of civil protection in the territories, fight against hate crimes and discrimination. Also one of the questions that I miss is whether we would complement – complement – the agreements signed at its time for the meeting. Yeah. And I'm not just saying yes, but you can know perfectly well that there has to be a meeting with Mr. Millo, with the government delegate, who asked me to do so. I didn't have a problem with going to see 'the delegation, and one of the issues that he explained to me precisely was this, that we could talk – that we could talk – and that we could develop everything that was agreed upon at his time at the Catalan Security Board. Our commitment was yes. We are also working at the Secretary General level because we define the service commissions that establish the same arrangements and, from here on, we continue to work in everything that we agreed. This government has continued and, therefore, all those agreements that Mr. Jané made at his time, as is logical, we will continue to push them forward, in this case from this new council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.46.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Forn. Then there's the word Mrs. Esperanza García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.47.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Forn, why do I ask you what you'll do with the police in the process? Because you're a counselor on occasion of the process purge. You're a process counselor, which is why I'm asking. You say to me, "Home, I'm explaining to you who the reps are, and I'm saying to you, yes, reps, but we're also worried about what you want to do with the agents, how you want to force the police officers to commit crime. I understand now that you don't like me asking for that and that's why I didn't take notes before. He didn't take note of the questions we asked him at the interrogation. Here normally the opposition that asks is who asks and the government who has to answer and satisfy the opposition questions. It's also the first day, and I imagine the lack of parliamentary experience, so it makes you practically make a appearance here. He read us part of the council's web plan, which we already know, because we already know how to read, and the other part that you've done is practically a valuation of what is his program of direction and government of the council during the months, if it's left months, of the remaining legislature. And I'm saying, if what you want is an appearance to give the data about what you're going to do with the council, ask her, ask the Interior Committee and explain to us what. But while, man, I'm sorry to tell you, but the opposition has right to ask, to make it mediate the inquiry and you, of course, to answer. And he only answered one question, which is that of the Security Board; not the rest. And we ask him, yes. We'll ask you what you're doing with the local police board, what you're doing... all the questions I've asked you and what we'll do by writing, given that you don't answer here, among other things, because it seems to us that you want to turn a democratic police into a political police. The police are democratic. The moves are not the guardians of the independence revolution, they are not. That's not Iran, we're in Spain, and the police respect it, complete the law, and make the laws complete. That's exactly what the Squad Mosses are supposed to do. They are not the Mosso d'Esquadra their lead soldiers, they are not, nor are they – no – army of Catalonian soldiers. I'm a democratic police officer. Since his appointment, and that's not what I'm saying to him, this happens to the Squadmills and to the agents, various agents who have served the complaint channel, not only by mediating the unions, but also the newspapers, that there is uncertainty, that there is concern about his direction of the Squadmills. And that's not what the People's Party says, that's what it does by sending cards to the newspaper, saying, "You'll have to respect the Squad Movements." I'm a team member from a different age group. I want to ask for respect for the Squad Moisson, because I will secure legally established laws and work with courts and tribunals, and I will help and protect the citizenry. And this is, for all intents and purposes, the pocket of the police. You, forcing squadron movements to allow an illegal act, are forcing them to be expelled from the body. The law of 94, which regulates the Mossos d'Esquadra: lack of hard, expelled from the body. Plus, to compromise their assets, which they didn't want to make the counselors they left, did they? And you want to break that dream, that dream that wrote a squad move to the newspaper The Newspaper said: "I want to be a cop. They've been asking me since I was fourteen, and I want to stay that way. I don't want to be used. And that's what we ask, what reflections – what reflections – and what I left the democratic police in which she is: a police who is serving citizens to protect them, to help them; not to defend their dogma of faith, not to defend the process, not to defend party interests; police who work with justice, police who work for the common interest; not for the interest of the Government of Junts for Yes. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.48.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The Councillor of the Interior, Mr. Joaquim Forn, responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.49.0	Well, it's that you have to feel according to what things by the mouth of certain representatives of certain political parties, as at least it would turn red, and I see that you don't change – you don't change. You remember, what did a commissioner of the National Police Cos who was in a committee at the Congress of Deputies answer to the questions of a deputy, Mr. Rufián? : « – What would you do for Spain? – I'd do anything. Commissioners of the National Police Cos. So far, I've explained what I seemed to be coming and what I wanted to explain, that they're the futures of the security department. You see that this interests you little and you prefer not to move's from the controversy and talk about the process. You teach me cards. I, of cards, can also teach him. And basically, why? Because a thousand police officers have told the police, and the police are a reflection of their society, and society is plural and diverse, I feel it. It's plural and different, which sometimes costs you a lot to hear, which is plurality, which is diversity, which is democracy. All this costs them a lot. You asked me what we would do; I can explain what we wouldn't do. What I'm sure we won't do, what we're never gonna do since the Catalunya Police, because there wouldn't be anyone I wanted to do and no political leader of our..., Junts per el Si would be willing to do it, which we wouldn't do is use public resources to attack public adversaries; we wouldn't do that. Nor would we create police structures to fight counter-ideologies against our own; nor would we. [[Some applause.]] We wouldn't... we wouldn't want ministers to be the most responsible, and we wouldn't want the brains of the most scandalous operation we've seen in democracy; we wouldn't do that either. [[Some applause.]] We wouldn't even ask prosecutors to do things in the same way; we wouldn't do that either. Listen, our model I explained, and against our model we know one, which is his. And if we have to sort, then quickly and clearly I say I'm staying with ours. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.50.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Forn. [[Asking the Government about the future decree of school teachers]] [[300-00199/11]] The next item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the future decree of school teachers, presented by the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot. To expose it, the word "Jessica Albiach" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.51.0	Yes, thank you, President. Welcome, counselor, and good delay to everyone and especially to the people of entities, unions and FAPAC who are accompanying us today. You will advise, you know that there is a compromise of a new decree of school teachers to renew what we have since 1996 and that, as you will understand, it is completely out of date. He also knows that there has been an anticipated process of input from different actors involved and he also knows that he makes a couple of months his predecessor to the carrec announced that a working group with representatives of the regional councils, the Catalan Federation of Municipalities, the AMPA federations and the business associations of the sector was already on the march to reach consensus positions. And Mrs. Ruiz remarked: "The department's will is to reach consensus on the future decree. Well, now we've found ourselves with an internal working document, which has reached the different actors involved, which would be a scrap of the new decree and counting on everyone's rebuff. It's hard enough, but it's just that she's like, with everybody's guts. And the parliamentary group that supports the government knows, because only fifteen days ago we gathered all the spokespersons of the different parliamentary groups with the representatives of the MUCE to speak of the decree and to speak precisely of this document; a document where they have not collected, for the time being – and say for the time being why we do not lose hope – the contributions that have made unions, FAPAC, Acellec. He only talks about families at the point of economic management – exclusively at the point of economic management – he says that the fooder's service will be provided with ordinary character in centres with early morning and late school activities and in those centres that have a compact day when circumstances advise him. But we would like to know when circumstances are advised, because this point is voted on and infinitely, infinitely, sometimes approved in this Parliament. Says it will boost, as soon as possible, the proximity products. We would like to know what it means to say "when possible, because it seems to us that we will find ourselves again with menus made up of thousands of miles of distance, and frozen, that come from Malaga. For what he does to the management of the service, he speaks only of the department – which, yes, he can delegate to the direction of the centers, the assemblies and the district councils. Counselor, where are the families? Again, where are the families? Acelec considers it necessary, considers it essential that the future decree explicitly contemplates the possibility for the food service to continue to be managed and contracted by the AMPA. It is more, he says: "It is that so far there have been many centers where the AMPA has managed it and they have done it very well, they have done it correctly and with a higher quality. It also leaves without regulating the training of monitors and work conditions. We haven't found a single word of people specialising in student care with special educational needs. He talks, after all, about the possibility of closing the food service, when for us he should be the mandatory food service in all the educational centers of Catalonia. When it refers to the body of control oversight of the beggars, it leaves the families out again. It includes the possibility that the same teacher will be in charge of the care during the meal, as if the teachers do not have enough hours with the day they currently have. I do not include any reference to centre autonomy or how to integrate this 30_percent of school hours into the education project. And not only that, but it's already overturning the equality in access to the fooder when I include, except, that those users who have allergies or intolerances and follow the mass because taking them or for organizational reasons remains complicated, so we arrange to carry a carmanyola from home, yes, and we offer them a refrigerator where they can keep it and then a microon where they can scalp it. And these are just some brushstrokes of the purpose of this work document. Look, we know it's not an official document and that's why we give it to him and we ask him to reconsider, because with this eraser, they're absolutely alone. Now that legal proceedings haven't started yet, don't you think it's a good time to start from scratch, to reconnect the contributions that all entities have made and to listen to families, which are ultimately the main ones affected? We are in time to make a real decree in line with what has been approved in this Parliament. Finally, I will say: the department, in the full return of the contributions that have been made to the transparency portal, speaks of the Moció 196/X, which was introduced by my companion Joan Mena to the previous legislature and which demands common sense and consensus. And, without going any further, two months ago Mrs. Niubó introduced another young man who threw into this Ple in the same line. Therefore, we insist, we are in time. We cannot agree with each other, such as the Maresme and Vallès, that they were dropped by the Catalan Court of Public Sector Contracts; we cannot make a new decree to the educational community, without transparency, without dialogue and without participation; we cannot allow the right to education and the right to food to be disconnected from equality, inclusion, equity, cohesion and social justice, and we cannot leave behind the criteria of quality and proximity in public contracts, as well as socio-educational, environmental or social economic criteria. In short, we believe that the right to school food cannot be a business in the hands of large multinational companies, and we ask ourselves – let us ask ourselves – whether it is by chance that certain local councils end up holding certain businesses in the hands of well-known converging the business of school workers. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because right now we are talking about a business; a business that is mainly in the hands of seven big companies or foundations, among which is Eurest, is Serhs, is Serunion, and behind one of them is Goldman Sachs, and is moving about 200_million euros a year of benefits. Companies, as you can understand, that have no objective to offer a quality menu, neither to protect local trade, nor to shield the rights of their workers, nor educational criteria; their only objective is to earn money. And this is not the education and school feeding model that Catalonia deserves; it is not the model that is worth the more than 260,000 infants that every day they eat in our schools. And we don't just worry about the school teachers' decree, the news that comes from the conclusions of ''Now it's also very worrying, and they just go deeper into the neo-conservative drift that we've been on for the past few years. Counselor, I insist: let us let go of the internal working document, which, moreover, as we have said, is not defined. Please stop alarming the educational community with this probe globe and make a new decree of school teachers, according to the educational community, and of which we can feel proud. A decree which, as in the advanced countries around us, contemplates the school beggar as a right, a free and universal right, accepting that there can be a transitional period with a sufficient number of scholarships; that all educational centres must have the service of the cook; that the school council should have the capacity not only to advise, but also to decide on the choice of management and of the food model, and that families organized in proven entities without work should have priority in the contract and in the full management of the service. A decree that actually follows a piece of the center education project, that there is coordination between the teacher and between the fooder monitors, with the recognition of the condition of educators to the people who do monitors, and, therefore, with a specific training, and, moreover, that regulates the ratio of infants per monitor. And in this sense, we make him a proposal: for a child, an adult for two children; in the first place, a proportion of one to fifteen, and in the second place, of one to twenty-five. And, obviously, with support people for infants with special educational needs. A decree on the bidding is values the educational project and the quality of the food before the economic criteria; that the menus are prepared by nutritionists experts in child nutrition; that it encourages the purchase of local, proximity and seasonal foods, and that the department is responsible for the menus that for pathologies or allergies exceed the usual price. And, also, to finish, we are completing with what we have approved in this Parliament in the matter of food beakers. It's true – and we recognize this – that it did get better for what it does to elementary school students, but we haven't advanced a thousandth of a threshold in secondary school. There is nothing about the non-lectile periods, there is nothing about the centres that have a compact day, and not a single step has been taken in the feeding alleys for the bressol schools. In short, we ask you to listen to the educational community and to present a decree that will reduce the contributions made to it by the different entities and more than two hundred people who, individually, have presented their opinions to the transparency portal of the Generality. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.52.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Reply to Mrs Clara Ponsatí, Councillor of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.53.0	Thank you very much. Good afternoon, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... Mrs Albiach, thank you very much for your inquiry. It took some time for me not to test, but I clearly feel like I'm still ugly. And sometimes it happened that they came to you in July; or so this is one of those exams that came to you very much at the end of the course, in July. I hope..., see if we can pass it. They could have waited until September, too, but [[the Minister for Foreign Affairs of the United ……]] Here we are. You see, the fooder's decree in force today, like the transport decree, is from '96. The educational community has long been aware of the need to modify it, but we still have it pending. When the competitions were passed on to the local councils, and this was the year 89, it was recommended that the schoolmen should work, both directly through a public contract or through agreements with other organisations, with assemblies, etc. The reality is that the type of service we have in the waiters has been quite different and has always been different. We have mensadors managed for the district councils, mensadors managed for the assemblies, mensadors managed for the centers, and many mensadors managed for the AMPAs, directly or indirectly. Based on this diversity, in 2014, the Department of Education contracted an information gathering exercise to get to know who and how they managed the caterers. And the diversity of provision in the service is natural, because I answer to the great diversity of our schools. We have communities where there are very small municipalities, with schools that have givers or twenty students, and in the same region there are eaters of one hundred and fifty or two hundred students. And he managed it from the local council in many cases so that all the fooders are viable and give a good service. But we need a decree to reorganize the food service. And what would we want to ensure with this decree? In the first place, we would like to ensure food quality. The fooders must make a balanced nutritional supply, which must be prepared and maintained in conditions of absolute food security, and this must be an appropriate cost for families. And at the same time we want to ensure the educational quality of the service. There is unanimous – unanimous – that the beggar is a part of the educational project. Therefore, this new decree contemplates the interrelationship between the food service and the pedagogical part of this service. We also need to ensure continuity in time and sustainability in the provision of these services. We need to give contractual security to the schools and to the provider, and we need to ensure the transparency of the awards. To achieve these objectives is entirely compatible, I think, with the diversity of providers. This can be done well by the administration close to the territory, which can join the board of servants, but it can also be done very well by the AMPA, which have a long trajectory doing this service and which naturally have much to say and that we want to listen to them. The department has collected detailed information about Catalonia's catering services, and this system-based information will give us directions to detect where the weak points are, and at the same time teach us who the good practices are and will be a good guide to prepare this new decree. Once the information is collected, what more are we doing? First, talk to the different administrations affected, the local councils and the assemblies; also with the directions of the schools and with the AMPAs and with the enterprises of the educated, which many times offer together the service of the fooder and that of the reader. As you know, we've set up a working group with the parts involved, which is the same as we did with the groceries, and we're listening to their recommendations and we're thinking together. And we're very optimistic, because they're proper administration that they know better than anyone else who serves and needs them, and because this is the same working group that we were able to make a very good deal with for the groceries. We have also studied the experiences outside of Catalonia, and there are different models. There are autonomous communities that make a centralized contract of all the beggars; there are no other communities that do so centrally in the municipalities, but there are also no others that, like us, have this more diverse reality. But, therefore, it is worth analyzing the various models to see them bounded, or not, and extrete them in lessons. In Catalonia, as we have said, we have taken care of the different stakeholders to agree on the model that gives quality and security, that gives transparent criteria in the contract of the service, that gives good attention to the student, and that this is done at an appropriate cost. Currently, as he explained, this working group is already on the move, with representatives of the district councils and municipal associations, to the effect of consensus positions in this matter. And, as I said, we also want to talk and work with the AMPA federations, with the business associations in the sector as well, so as to broaden the consensus on this new decree, as we want..., and the department's will is that it is a regulation that incorporates the different points of view and that is the fruit of the commitments. But we must be well aware that commitments are commitments between different points of view and different interests. And these different interests are all legitimate, but they are different for different parts. This new decree will have to incorporate the new criteria incorporated in the public contract law, as a result of the transposition of the Community Public Contract Directive from services to persons, with particular attention to social contract. And it will also incorporate the adequacy of the rules in the field of public transparency in order to ensure the traceability of awards arising from these public procurement processes in the field of beggars; not only to make it more transparent, but also to make it more secure. In the educational centres, the food service and the time that is associated with this estona is integrated into the educational project. This wasn't collected in the 96 decree, but it's been many years now. So, the school cook is a piece of the educational project. And I am very pleased to have said this exactly with the same words as you, Mrs. Albiach – exactly –; we are totally in agreement: the school beggar is an integral part of the education project and, as such, it is necessary to guarantee equal access to all students, fulfilling the principle of equality. And, in the second term, the food service also reinforces the actions that social services do, which are the ones that have the competence to ensure the right of people to live decently by mediating the coverage of their needs, according to the Law of Social Services. You already know the important changes that we have made in the model of food aid and that will allow us to make progress to guarantee access in conditions of equality to the services of school food. The changes were made with consensus with the municipal associations and with the regional councils, and we have been more there, responding to the resolution of this Parliament on the situation of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response, we have made a few changes, this course, we have eliminated the flexible tram and we have raised the shields..., the access, so that the help has reached many more families. At this point, the total number of women's scholarships that we will be holding is not closed, because the local councils are still sending out liquidations, which we can say is that at this point the Government of Catalonia has granted more than 106,000 women's scholarships for the course that was completed. We remind them that this is an open game and that, therefore, novels available to families who are likely to join along the course. In terms of quantity, the change in the course 2015-2016 to the course we have now finished has been an increase in the number of people who enjoy this help by more than 10_per_cent; but, if we look at the quantities that we have worked on, the increase is more than 20_per_cent. Therefore, the effort the government has made in this direction is truly very remarkable. In conclusion, the decree currently governing school teachers is that of year 96, which is to amend it. My department will push for a new decree that we want to be applicable for the 2018-2019 school year, and it is our determination to do so. And, to this determination, the resolution approved by Parliament a few months ago, which urged the Government to deal with this new decree, is added. The draft decree is proceeding in accordance with the provisions of Law 39/2015, of the administrative procedure, which entered into force on October 2016. This new law reinforces the transparency and participation of citizens, the processing of regulatory initiatives, since it establishes advertising in the portal of transparency and the realization of a public consultation of fifteen days as long as minimum. The publicity at the transparency portal and the public consultation before it is made between the September 2016 and the February 2017 with a much longer duration than the minimum expected for the law. As a result of those two anticipated steps, we have received more than thirty contributions of entities, associations and businesses, and more than one hundred private individuals. Once this process has been completed, the department has prepared a first working document for a round of consultations and bilateral discussions with key players in the sector. Now we're in this phase of bilateral troubadours. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] that will end with a _second document to which the entities and the rest of the consulted actors can contribute. Once the interested actors have been able to make their assessment of this document, of the second working document, we will clear the passes to draft the decree...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.54.0	Counselor, I know it's hard, but it's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.55.0	...so that the Board of Directors of our department approves the initiation of the proceedings, which includes the period of public information and the period of allegations, in addition to the preceptive reports of the Legal Commission, the Local Government Commission and the School Board of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.56.0	Counselor, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.57.0	Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.58.0	...has run out of time. Thank you, Counselor. It has the word Ms. Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.59.0	Yes, thank you, President. Thank you, Counselor. Before the inquiry with Councillor Forn, Mrs. García had commented that she seemed more like an appearance than an inquiry. And I had the same feeling, because you were already coming with a prepared document. And it's more, I'll tell you, it's not that we used the same words, it's that I've been reviewing the question that Councilwoman Ruiz, former Councilwoman Ruiz, did two months ago, and you also had literal sentences from the previous question. I understand that we are talking about the decree of school teachers, but you should answer to me, not to Mrs. Niubó, who spoke two months ago. In the end, I have to say that I was not clear whether they would withdraw the work document or not, the decree or not, because you said, you insisted on the good will they have, but the truth is that, from training, they say in my house, not a gram. See, I'm back to saying, we know it's not an official document, it's from the first things we said, it's a working document, but it's a document that came out of the Teaching Department and on which the FAPAC, FAPAES, Commissions, UGT, CGT, USTEC, and Acelec, without wanting to position themselves openly, also showed their concern. Therefore, if I may say so, I would say that they have not acted with the responsibility that would be warm, because they have been alerting the educational community, which has been unprotected and newly ignored. To the motion of Mrs. Niubó two months ago we approved that the new decree was to be presented before the beginning of the next course. With the permission of Mrs. Niubó, I ask you that, if you please, we postpone a few months to look at it calmly and to try what Mrs. Ruiz said, which was to get the most consent. For the time being, they have not only failed to reach this consensus, but they have gone to cancel all the meetings on the subject that were scheduled. And again, we can't repeat past errors in what it does to certain bidding and contracting mechanisms, which are closer to questionable dynamics and even closer to corruption than to a state of right and democracy. We need to shield the right to food, just like we do the right to education. And already, to finish, three ideas: guarantee of food sufficiency from the school and throughout the compulsory stage; recognition of the labor rights of the food workers, and, therefore, specific training, and food sovereignty, is to say, right to decide on the families, and, therefore, to extend the business of multinationals. And, of course, all the recognition of the school teacher as a student in time and, moreover, to be included in the centre education project. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.60.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Reply will advise the Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.61.0	Thank you very much. Working documents are working documents; they may please you more or less, but they are working documents. Therefore, neither withdraw nor stop withdrawing, they are working documents. It seems to me that my intervention..., that, effectively, it was prepared, because it proves, let's say, a certain professionalism, forgiveness'm. How can I understand, in my position, coming here would have been a little risky, huh? So, so now I'm on my way, but before a little prepared, and I've exposed them, let's just say, the plans my department has on this initiative, and it seems to me that it has answered your question, to your questions. So, either you like it or you don't like it, that this is what Councilwoman Ruiz said a few weeks ago, or a few months ago, I'm not surprised that you're meeting, because it's the same government. In this, let's say, there has been no change in the plan of government in this size. So, no surprise. I just want to insist on it: there's a stop on my team that this progress with the highest intensity and the stop on the basis that this is done on the basis of a study of how we have the most rigorous reality. And, therefore, I personally have commissioned that we keep the data and information well accurate and well measured and well presented. And from here, we discuss it and the consensus; we would thank you for all the efforts we can, and we are open to hear everyone's opinions and contributions. It will not be easy, because we will hear opinions and contributions that will be contradictory and we will have to conjugate them, but we will do what we can. And we're determined to move in this direction. And thank very much the honourable Member's inquiry and good luck. And we are open and I invite you to visit me to talk to us calmly and to work together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.62.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Ponsati. [[Asking the Government about housing policies]] [[300-00200/11]] The next item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on housing policies, presented for the Popular Unity Candidature - Crida Constituent. To expose her, Mr. Joan Garriga has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.63.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, Councillors, in the first place, let me take advantage of the fact that you are here in the gallery to send a solid greeting to the young people detained in Mataró, Sant Sadurní and Igualada..., in defense of the university fees approved for this Parliament, and to make it clear that, for us, our group, despite repression, will not hold up the defense for a public university. Now to whom we go: to the habitation inquiry. It will advise, Members, Members, make this question of knowing and convinced governments of a whole series of data, of a whole series of situations, of social realities, of the need for housing that I think are good known for most of the people we are here; of facts, situations and realities that have been the object of parliamentary debates, of legislative work by this Parliament; of facts, situations and realities that have included this Parliament in a level of consensus, therefore, hopeful at the time of being able to formulate answers and concrete proposals for these responses, and, why not say so? , given and situations and realities that, despite the fact that there is a broad consensus in this Parliament, they have been removed from their chances of success, to say the least, because of a tragic and criminal attempt by the Central Government in its Croatia against the sovereignty of this Parliament, but above all – above all – we do not deceive ourselves, too, we think, for a class position, an ideological position and a clear servitude of this Central Government to the power of the strongest and, of course, capital. The data, the situations, the realities so many times described in this forum and in committee are what they are and describe a desolating panorama that thousands of families, thousands of people find themselves stunned and trying to survive as they can. We are dealing with these data, these situations and these realities as we say– « housing emergence, « vulnerability, « problems of housing–, all of us in this Parliament are familiar with what is behind these definitions: violation of rights, despair, vulnerability, precariousness, denunciation and also, and by fate, self-organisation, struggle, mobilization and occupation. And let me put the occupation in the banner of positive things to counter a little the most usual time..., which is every time more usual in our work in committee, which is to put the occupation in general in the concrete mark of certainly low-profile mafia actions and of a very concrete social component. With the current situation that we have of residential exclusion, the phenomenon of occupation is a very widespread reality and its causes are structural and with guilt, we think, very clear: 6_million empty habitats, the majority in the ownership of the banks, 46,000 in Catalonia, at the mercy of speculation and in the hope of a recovery of the real estate market that recovers its value of change so as to further increase its benefits. More than 500,000 mortgage executions, 159 daily denunciations to the Spanish State; more than thirty or a half gods, said the councilwoman a few times ago in response to an inquiry by the Socialist Party. We have repeated this many times: hundreds of families in the most absolute social exclusion and expulsions from their homes, asphyxiations for millionaire, irretrievable, unable to take the lead, without entrances, at mortgage rates that increase without any control; contract between unequals that is then unmasked with all its malice; the gun to the head because there are signs that they would ruin life was not material but contextually and equally effective. During the period 2009-2016 the socioeconomic situation has generated, among others, housing emergence, with the appearance of new situations involving habitation loss. The lack of a public park of social loguer..., currently in Catalonia the public park of social housing is found, and has been said here several times, in the gallery, at a 1.5_per_cent of the total, a cipher that makes laughs not so alone if we compare it with European parameters, but, and above all, we think, for the immense demand and needs that we have on the table at a time like the present. The suspension on the part of the Law 24/2015_has generated unprotectiveness for families, has exonerated the great masters of their social responsibility as the generator part of the problem, as well as their obligation to offer social logue to families. Neither Law 24/2015 nor the current 4/2016 do not develop any article in relation to irregular occupation. Intermediation with entities financed for such an agreed development has rejected the refusal on the part of those entities financed, despite some exceptions. Bombola de lloger – in Barcelona the middle of the price has doubled from fifteen years ago – tourism, gentrification, which again serve to enrich a small economic elite, while we again condemn the misery and expulsion of its barrels and its popular classes. This phenomenon has generated a high number of families without habitat, and at times has proliferated empty habitats and occupations. In the face of these facts, before these situations, of these realitiesproliferate in Parliament, we think, it has done a legislative job, sometimes late, but it has done it, a little distressed, for us, but it has also done it, and we recognize it, but this legislative task, which we all have, therefore, called a housing emergency and a vulnerability of social exclusion, has been a job, as I said before, escaped, mortified and trossed for a central government before the Constitutional Court. We all know that. And what did the government do? Who are the... what have you done with the things that this Parliament has put in its abyss? How does the political will approved by this Parliament work? We need to know what is being done and how is being done in order to know the degree of compliment on the part of the Government, but also to know what we want to do to ourselves, like legislators, before a reality that, despite the important, very important, small and secure adventures, given the cruelty of reality, so it is a reality that, we think, is denied to change and, much worse – much worse – wants to bring us back to the exit box where the real causes of this brutal reality reside that has struck without a glance and with total impunity an important sector of our people. Despite the efforts made, despite the well-deserved policies and despite the recognition of what the Government has done and the shortcomings observed, we would like to know how the Government is working to achieve the maximum regularization of occupied habitats with a work plan that guarantees the solidity of this process; we would like to know how the Government is working to strengthen the coordination lines with the joints to give cross-cutting responses; we would like to know how the Government is working to develop proposals for the normalization of sub-administrations to occupied habitats; we would like to know how the Government is working to eradicate the organized groups that are working with the need for housing and that we are working in various areas. And it's in this mark, where the trees may not let us see the forest, which we want to place our inquiry. The decline in public resources to improve living conditions and promote public housing – we all agree – requires more than ever the focus on actions than should be prioritised. The overall knowledge of the situations, the effective coordination of these actions must allow to optimize resources, attention and the terms in the response. It is necessary to work for the adequacy of the offer and the conditions of tenure from housing to the situation of families, in order to guarantee precisely their right to housing. In addition, in terms of habitation, it has also been said several times here, from this rostrum – nine actions derived from social, economic, legislative changes, which respond to the needs that have been generated in terms of habitation. We cannot, however, have a serious housing policy; in order to be able to have it hard, we must have an adequate premise and a predictable and indefatigable demand, such as the only one that is suitable for our actions in the long run. The accompanying parameters, such as the promotion of building, "uses of soil, "control, intervention of the market of loguers and mortgages or "functional or quality standards, would complement the conditions of this environment and of this policy. In no case can the answer be, we believe, conjunctural; the housing policy is the great challenge we will face as the country. And before that we expect, as we say, that emergency trees don't hit us in the woods of need. And that's why our inquiry wants to go further than sharing the need to give answers, to give value or not to government action, that you yourself have made us work with local governments, a commitment of 109_million to promote the park, mediate, reallocation in the park of a medium of daily charges. And we want to go, we believe, beyond the work that, say, has been done: four thousand dwellings yielded by the bank; decrees on empty floors; supply and withdrawal, with a reversal of fifty thousand; about 1,700 dwellings acquired; etc. We think that we are ahead of a great challenge that will need to be addressed, and in the run-up to a new republic we would like to know what the Government's policy axes for the supply of affordable housing and the containment of existing housing prices are, he said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.64.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Reply to Ms Meritxell Borràs, Governance Counsellor, Public Administrations and Habitatage.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.65.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Member, Mr. Garriga, in the first place, you said to the insider of your inquiry, this is a topic that you frequently see in this Parliament. It is not a toilet, it is, on the contrary, the show that this is an issue that concerns us, the government and the different parliamentary groups. And so there are things that I'm going to tell you that I'm sure you've heard me say it before. To thank him for the whole and the coincidence in many of the areas we set up. I think we all agree that this is a country issue where we don't just have to work to get out of the emergency situation we have, but it's obvious that we have to work, so with a more substantive issue. The right to housing, we fully agree – the right to housing – : this is a question of country, isn't it? We have made a lot of efforts, we are making a lot of efforts, certainly, in the legislative sphere, also in the economic sphere, and, therefore, we are acting basically in two very clear spheres. One – you said – in which it is done quickly and effectively, therefore, in all areas of emergence, and the other, which we cannot abandon even though it holds us in an important way all that is the subject of emergence, therefore, in the collections that, without being in this particular situation, are in a situation of difficulty to access a habitation, is it not? We said it well, we legislated in an important way, and – and I said it well – they acted impeccably, we could say, the Government of the State with its ally, the Constitutional Court, at the time, therefore, to reduce our legislative capacity, in an area in which we are competent, and, therefore, to make things very difficult for us. Well, as the government, let's have it exposed... I think you're asking me some questions that I'm going to look forward to contesting, but during the year 2016 we used more money than ever to give answer to existing needs. Specifically, EUR 109_million for ordinary aid in the payment of the logger; aid for persons living in public parks, and emergency services. Therefore, it means that we have helped more than sixty thousand families. And, therefore, we made a leap from the year 2012, in which the situation was, therefore, precarious, in many cases, that we helped 22,000 families, to more than 60,000 year 2016. I want to put in value, with all this, the work that's done since the Ofideute, right? Because, so, the first half of the year, you were talking to me about denunciations, we've been able to stop 2,238 denunciations, that's a xifra already rising. And in the last five years, we have actually avoided 21,667 charges, and this isn't a smaller number that we might need. We have at these moments seventy-five points of attention, seventy-five points of attention from the country. And that means, therefore, approaching with the citizens of Catalonia, and giving answer, therefore, quick and above all effective force at the time of giving solution to their situations. What do we do for this? You were asking us who are the actions that you are doing, that are used to fight this situation, right? So one of the most important things, of course, is the public housing park, we agree. We're at the bottom of what we want. At these times a correction, I would like it to be more uplifting, but the housing stock we have is 2_per_cent. Certainly, it's little respect for what's in other countries. In these moments 28,261 habitats, with a social logger of midjana of 175,73_euros. Therefore, listen to me, it is obvious that we must make an effort to expand our country's housing stock, and we do so mainly through various elements. One – and I believe that I can say that it is an innovative decree, a decree that is certainly revolutionary –, Decree 1/2015, in which it gave us the right to Aunty and Retreat to the City of Accredited Demand. And, therefore, we were able to exercise it and acquire housing at a price, so, more than good, with less than fifty thousand euros, the middle of the purchased floors. And, therefore, we have also, at the same time, been able to break down what we are dealing with a series of actions that we could say are speculative, in which there are large packages, therefore, of habitats to which they are called on many occasions "back to finance". And, therefore, we acquire those habitats that we believe are adequate to respond to people's needs. I, therefore, from the Government of Catalonia we have acquired 636 habitats, ja. And this 2017 we're going to be doing an important job and, therefore, we're going to have more than a thousand housing units running this way. This has also been used by the joint ventures, which have not been acquired 242; or, therefore, by entities without profit, which have not been acquired twenty-six. And it said that we could have more than a thousand habitations through this way, because the government is making an effort not only through the tax on empty habitations, a tax that is done through this decree, that I held the title of revolutionaries, but that, moreover, we have made, therefore, a direct contribution on the part of Incasòl, so as to take advantage of the years that remain for us in which we can use the taneig and retract, and acquire habitats at an appropriate price. Another interesting formula that we use, and use as much as we can to obtain habitat, therefore, is the cessation of habitat by part of the funded entities; 4,010 floors. And you know that in this area, when you were talking to me about occupation, here we can talk about that half of the habitats that give way to us are occupied habitats, and that, therefore, we are going to regulate these situations, we are going to give solutions to people who are in a certain precarious situation, who have certainly entered this situation, in these occupations. And, therefore, this is a way, precisely, not only to acquire habitat for the families that require it, but also to find solutions in this area, therefore, which I cited. What do we do, too? So, through the Incasòl we have announced that we will start new housing promotions, and concretely, therefore, we have 100_million euros to build up our housing and, therefore, to expand this housing park as well. But I believe that one of the elements that is probably less common today, but which gives us a long run, is the impulse that we are making from the territorial area of the housing sector to lie down in Catalonia to the standards that you say Europeans, right? , in which it is expected that 235,000 immobile dwellings can be made available for social policies in the next fifteen years, and that, therefore, we have a 5_percent share of the housing stock destined for social loggering in this period of time. And that in the cities, in the municipalities, therefore, there is an area..., which is considered to be high demand areas, we have about 15_percent of the buildings reserved precisely for these social policies. Therefore, here is an area in which it has already begun to walk, it is at these moments in public display and, therefore, waiting for the allegations, the proposals that we can get. What other elements have we made, right? So, listen'm, we, the Law 4/2016, which we have also threatened for the Government of the State, because we want to bring to the Constitutional Court..., you know that there is a tool that allows us when a family is to be dislocated from their home because they are not able to face the payment of their habitation, there is the obligation of a social logue in this family. And at these times there are already, if I don't get it wrong, 1,006 social loggers who have been able, therefore, to agile this way, right? So, what's relevant is that the city needs to know all the available tools, know what..., as soon as we know what the problem is, what is the situation of families, of people with a need for housing, with a situation that they may have habitat but at risk of losing it, before they can solve things and with more guarantees of success. We work, therefore, to guarantee the right of habitation, and therefore, I insist, that we know the tools and use them as soon as possible. You were asking me how we execute the current legislation. It cited the concrete case of the social loguer in the case of the financial entities. I could mention to you – and if I want to, then we have a little more – what is the collaboration between the different administrations, specifically between the government and the joint ventures, with all those who want to make temporary expropriation processes of empty habitats of funded entities, for which, as you know, we have €7.3 million, destined, precisely, for this management and, therefore, to be able to respond to the needs of the areas of greatest demand. And here's where we are pending the requests that we can make various gatherings, isn't it? , because unfortunately, therefore, not all the assemblies have brought us their predisposition to use this way to acquire habitat when there is, I insist, a strong...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.66.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.67.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.68.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.69.0	I give up the word and, if any, we're still on the second return. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.70.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Joan Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.71.0	Thank you, President. Well, I appreciate it... the first part of your intervention, your answer, it's not that it's not interesting, it's pretty well known. I mean, he's been questioned by other parliamentary groups before, and that's right, and I also think it has to be a prosecutor's and a prosecutor's case, right? But I'm more interested in the second part, that's to say, all that went beyond the housing emergency and that generated the legislative work and parliamentary work that took place here. And in this sense, therefore, I think this is better than the sectoral territorial plan – today, huh? More important to talk about it, huh? What else do you need to talk about for what we say, that phrase that you're raising them, so don't hit us with the woods and the needy, huh? And we say that because we are of the opinion that today we find ourselves again with a cylinder that affects the price of the habitation, and we see how the habitation becomes a speculative tool to the service of the capital and it is impossible to access the habitation worthy of a greater percentage of what we had of the emergence. I mean, all the indicators are telling us that we're going back to what they say in the castle "we're going back to the steps, right? That which has brought us to a reality, that has achieved a broad consensus and that has generated important efforts or that has to generate them, and that, moreover, this sadness..., therefore, let us again see how, again, the cylinder and these indicators are facing the table. And the state's response to this problem, we think that, besides, we have no complicity, because it's not only non-existent, but that it doesn't do anything to end this popular class stalwart, and it doesn't allow other administrations to take steps to respect it. In short, don't fan or let it go. It is clear, therefore, that we find ourselves before a state dominated by banking and large multinationals, and for us it is demonstrated, for example, that the press wheel that was made will make a couple of weeks, President Rajoy, therefore, before the magnates of public work, announcing a reversal of 5,000_million. That is to say, not in front of the agents and the social actors who need it, but in front of those people, of those magnates of the work, who, moreover, did it to them: "All that time you have lost, therefore, look, now you will recover it. It's been a long time since many of the Catalans decided to change this state, controlled, we think, for the capitalism of friendship, oligopolies and revolving doors, and we think that in the construction of the bases of this one... – that's why it said "in the outburst of the new republic", to build a new state with new bases, right? But a state to change everything, we think, a state that legislates in defense of the majority and that understands that the social use of housing is over the economic interests of a minority. And that no one is thinking– plus, we think we have difficulties –, that no one is thinking that recovering the Law 24/2015, fallen for the Constitutional Court, a law that proposes positive things, but that we have already said – it is a phrase that many criticize us – we think, did not go to the scene of the problem but went to deal, therefore, with effects and a very negative reality. And we think that the recovery of the 24/2015, in a way, will not be the instrument that will prevent you from continuing to increase the price of housing by far. And in this sense we would like to know whether this government and its council are willing to start working because there is a public and real intervention on the housing market. And you know we don't have competitions, you know that, don't you? But for us, more than that, which we already know, what we want to know is whether this government is willing to really change things during the construction or at this point in time when we are talking about the bases in the frontline of the new republic. And in this sense, we would ask: are you willing to set a maximum of the prices of the prices, according to the salaries of the workers and pensions? Are you in favour of legislation to end the speculation of the price of the soil and to guarantee the social use of the habitats, arriving at the expropriation, if necessary, or to the property when this purpose is not complete? Are you in favour of arranging or investing to increase public floors? And, for example, has the possibility of incorporating all floors and buildings today owned by Sareb into the public park been studied? In short: we can build a new state in which we don't change, that's obvious, but we can be brave and build a state where people are put in front of capital. We will work for that, and we would like to know if the government is willing to do so, too. Actually, what we propose, therefore, is not just to change, and that I forgive the people who love football and opera, but we would not like to change the Bernabéu lot for that of Camp Nou or that of the Lice. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.72.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. There's the word Constellera Borràs.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.73.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Deputy, if you'll allow me, on some subject perhaps there was a point of contradiction. If we do not give importance to what are the months of emergence, what are the emergencies, we find that 676 housing awards we have made in which we carry serious situations of occupation, serious situations of unsolved difficulty and, therefore, I believe that we have to work in parallel to resolving the situations of emergence, for one band, and, for another, to give out, obviously, to all those people who have difficulty accessing the habitat to give an answer. Therefore, we understand that there are two working lives here. With regard to what you were quoting from the loguers, it is obvious that this is a subject that we are concerned about; so much so that we have proposed, and one of them has already begun, that it is hard at the end of two things: one is the reference index of the loguer prices through the Catalonia Habitat Agency, that, as you know, it is already a useful tool for twenty-seven municipalities, and that means that around 60_per_cent of the people of Catalonia can know with transparency..., we have seized all these people to know who are the real logues in their environment, both the owners and the loguers. And at the same time, he knows that our vocation is to be able to make impressions so that the owners put the prices under what is this price index. We are convinced that social policies are the responsibility of the Government to endure them in the long term and, therefore, do not take away our responsibility at the time of, I insist, pushing them forward, do we not? And we're doing it – we're doing it. We did it, and you mentioned it, with what is the territorial area of the habitation, in which there is this compromise that in fifteen years we can reach, therefore, that 5_percent of the habitation park is destined for social logger. And it's obvious that this government's will is to put on top, or we could say before, before all else, the people, the people and their needs. And that's why we did it through the various laws, and then, on 4/2016, we had this clear will, which, therefore, as you mentioned and I also want to do, the Government of the State is taking us to the Constitutional Court, surely. Or he'll bring it to us, go, I don't want to move on to events, but they've already announced it to us, we might say. And it is in this sense that our full road, we could say, in the matter of housing is a clear way of giving answers to people, of giving answers to the needy, of making social policies from the government, of making matters with which we can convert the logger into an environment, therefore, attracted both to the owners and to the loggers. And that, therefore, is why we have a new law of urban leases in our country, a law which also provides for Law 4/2016 and which the government is committed to in the long run. And so, unlike, therefore, what was the Constitutional Court ruling respecting Law 1/2015, eh? , which was the ILP, unlike that given by the Constitutional Court and also promoted the Government of the State, because of the benefit or damage that can be caused to the financial entities we have to take into account, therefore, the needs of the people, which is what no one is discussing today, that housing is an element of response to the need for social housing and, therefore, a key element for the citizens of this country, and it is in this line that we can legally find ourselves in. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-25-4001.74.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up till tomorrow morning to give it to you.
