ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Interview with the Government on Catalan communication media]] [[300-00201/11]] The point of the order of the day is: an inquiry to the Government on the Catalan communication media, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Lord David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.2.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Members, councillor... At first place, I let you welcome her as a new councillor, I hope she gets lucky and very uncertain, but I also hope that she is short, her stage as a councillor. And I say we wait for it, and we don't just wait for it, but we believe it, because they see how this legislature went, and they see the road without going out to what this government is bringing us, so we don't see any more going out than some early elections, do we? That said, I insist on wishing you out and uncertain, even though you, together with our advisors, can be appointed as advisors for one day or as advisors for one month. But well, said this, as you have just arrived at the councillor's office, let's just give you a summary of the hits of the 2016-2017 season that we have had in our public communication media, and why you can have a more general view, and not just the opinions of your councillor's office, of what you spent this season. And let's do it in different blocks. In the first place, I would like to explain to you the paranormal phenomena that have happened to public television in Catalonia. Some of these paranormal phenomena, so, well, they could be fun, they could be funny, but others are a little more serious. In any case, both of them are worrying, they are worrying because some public media should be governed and based on plurality criteria, with criteria of truth, with criteria of neutrality and impartiality. And now I'm going to put some of these examples, some of these paranormal phenomena, right? : from changing Spanish flags for Catalans in the Olympic Games of Rio, as an abscess from some player of the Spanish Lliga, to making disappear, for example, from the TV3 web a video of Spanish and Barça players in which Els Segadors did not sing when the anthem sounded. But then there are some paranormal phenomen a little more worrying, aren't there? , a more worrying mike, such as when, in the Telenoticias, therefore, a part of a cartel disappeared in which the different leaders of the different opposition groups were directly – directly – threatened; or when, for example, in the Telenoticias they also made orthographic corrections to a tweet of the president, a tweet that, precisely, was directed towards Ciutadans ; or when in a television program a tweet appeared in the subtitle in which they were said to be "feixists, to those who are part of Ciutadans. Secondly, we have the development of what our television has become today, of what you have created today, that it is nothing else, that it is the teleprocess and the radioprocess. We have seen, for example, "Mr. Homs' multiple reports on bicycles, making the Tourmalet; I don't know exactly what general interest this could have. We have also seen, as has been the case in the months Puigdemont, in which their appearances have been more than double the number of leaders of the different opposition groups. We have seen, too, how it is broadcast live and how it is done in direct different party conferences that give support to the government to Brussels, for example. We have seen – that it is still more worrying, if it is possible – how they broadcast live from a conference of a private entity such as Cultural Heritage. The truth is that we don't know who the journalistic criteria or the rigour of information have been to do this and not to donate live broadcasts, I repeat, from other conferences of other entities. But the one who's been busy and snooping, the one who's already been the hit of the season, has been when TV3_has named the 9-N trial as the 9-N trial. There's still more than eighty years left because the century is over, but we already have the judgment of the century. Well, when I listened to it, so I thought we might be talking about the Palau case trial, or the ITV trial, 3_per_cent, but no– no–, we were talking about the 9-N trial. Certainly, 9-N news: for example, in five days forty-one informative fish will be donated, and, in turn, another question so important for one part of Catalans – it is true that it is a part that are not independent, but that it is very important for one part of Catalans – as is the Vidal case, you only gave 11 informative fish to TV3 in three weeks. So, we think it's missing... or that there's informational rigour, in any case, deceptive, right? And since we're talking about the Vidal case, so, you've issued and reissued a documentary, which is that of The State Keyboards..., which we agree with, because, in fact, our group at the Congress of Deputies gave support to the fact that there is a commission of inquiry, because we believe that the instruments of the State cannot be used to pursue any political ideology. No, we don't agree and, therefore, well, we don't find it bad, but I suppose that, since you modify the grails and issue and reissue a documentary of this style, I suppose for the season you come, counselor, you already have to work in other documentaries, in other documentaries that you might say, for example, "Convergence Keyboards," "3_per_cent Keyboards," "Convergence Operation." Anyway, I'm sure you're working on this, and in any case, I'm also telling you that if you want to take some of these titles that I've proposed, we won't get them copyrighted. Mirin, the Television of Catalonia, unfortunately – unfortunately – has become the Great Brother of the process. And we Catalans don't have to put up with this. And that's why many Catalans have disconnected, and they haven't disconnected from Spain, and they haven't disconnected from Europe, but they have disconnected from their public television, from a television that we all pay for every Catalan. But finally, we have to recognize a virtue, counselor: you have achieved something new in this legislature, and it is the fact that you have agreed all opposition groups, all groups on this bench, including the CUP, so as to disprove the president in office, that more than on the job it seems that she is stuck in a fall and not in a water, and also still resigns from the new director of TV3, Mr. Sanchis. By the way, a new TV3 director named said that once he was already performing his functions as TV3 director, he was following conferences with independent entities and stelades at the back. It wouldn't be any more, and it would be quite a detail, that the new TV3 director could read the TV3 style book so that he could've adapted himself, just as all the workers in the house could've adapted. Certainly, we would also like to ask you, Mr Counselor, as the most responsible, whether we intend to complete the motions that have taken place and that have been approved in this Parliament, if they intend to complete these democratic mandates. I know you only like a democratic mandate, but there are other democratic mandates that need to be completed. And when we have, too, a programme contract, which many years ago we would have to have and which is necessary to know the objectives to be pursued by Catalan public television? As I may have seen at the length of my intervention, our public media, which I recall a new time being paid for all and each of the Catalans, are very little rigorous at the time of translating the plurality and neutrality that is required as the public function they have to do. Moreover, they need much more transparency in their management, in the renewal of their functions – which I also want to ask – and in the election of these. Therefore, we would like to know, Mr. Counsellor, as the most responsible of the consultancy: what will be the main axes for the next season? If you continue to live from the monotheme the twenty-four hours of the day, if you continue to emit the great VIP Brother of the process, or if you continue to use the public communication media of all Catalans to its measure and expel a part of Catalan society. Certainly, "a part of the Catalan society: the inquiry of the GESOP says that two_of_each_three believe that TV3 has a separatist bias, hence possible causes – not all, but possible causes – of the decrease in the audiences, which have decreased to one digit. Or by your end, counselor, and your government – by your end – will they work so that we can have the best public means possible and that they are examples of rigour, that they are examples of professionalism and that, by their end, they can represent the conjunction of all Catalans? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Mejía. Reply by Mr. Jordi Turull, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.4.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Deputy, Mr. Mejía, first of all I want to thank you all, I don't know if they're new in the morning, and it went well to start with this all. In any case, I thank you all, I thank you for your congratulations. You say you expect it to be a short stage, at my house, too, huh? Let them hope that it will be a short stage, but for a very different reason, and it is obvious that from the 1st of October we start a new era here in Catalonia, after voting, and we become a state and then the issue of governments and councillors, so it works in another way. He's been asking me a lot of questions, too. Tell him that I would have liked to prepare this question very well; I would have liked to have prepared it very well for fifteen days, I would have liked to have prepared it very well, I would have liked to prepare it this morning, but it turns out that the Director General of Communication is in the Civil Guard, declaring for a website that speaks of democracy, that speaks of these things. Yesterday the secretary general of my department, who would also have helped me prepare this inquiry, it turns out that he was in front of the Civil Guard for an absolutely unpublished question, which was to talk about a website, therefore, of the National Referendum Pact. And, therefore, he will already apologize to me, between the fact that I'm new and that it turns out that the high offices of my department are being called to testify before the Civil Guard, that I may not be able to answer it precisely. Clearly, you were talking to me about the « hits of the season and, from here, you have made a great loss, from here you started making the house of the keyboards: to talk about this, to talk about this anecdote, to talk about the other. And a little bit, I..., more than the hits of the season, has made a setback, a reminder of what you have been repeating here as a mantra periodically. I'm saying because, I'm a very new counselor, but as a Member of Parliament I've been there long enough, and so this debate doesn't surprise me. I think the day you give – you, huh? – Citizens move from topics to knowledge, we may have much more interesting debates. You say that... you were talking to me about "paranormal phenomena," you started saying a series of things... I, when you were talking to me about "paranormal phenomena, I thought it meant yesterday, when you went through a TV store and all the public televisions came out of Mr. Rajoy declaring in a trial, except on a television, that they were teaching to do beixamel, which must be very interesting for the whole State, that. I say this because I say: "How is Catalonia's public television, rigour, etc.? So, it's up to you to compare it, isn't it? Then there's another thing of substance, and you know it better than anyone, Mr. Mejía. You ask me for a series of things... I'm saying it because of this conception that you have: I don't tell TV3 what to do and what to don't to do. I mean, you're making a big mistake. It's more, look, I'll tell you one thing: I have 15 days as a counselor, I haven't talked to the director of TV3 at any moment, I don't even have his mobile. I mean, imagine the incidence that the Presidency Department has on television. You know it better than I do, because I think you're... you're, right? , which presides over a parliamentary committee that makes permanent control of public television in Catalonia. And therefore, listen, TV3, in this case, let's say, that it is of which it has control of quality, of pluralism, of rigor, etcetera, higher than other television. And you know it. That's why I tell them not to wander with the topic, wander with the acquaintance. I mean, is the corporation under what control? To the ACC, which issues periodic reports. Does the CAC in the Spanish State exist? I don't think so. To the Parliament of Catalonia; therefore, the CAC makes some reports, but then to the Parliament of Catalonia it is the only committee– and you know it–, therefore, that in a mandatory way in the Parliament it has a fixed date that is done..., you preside over it, you know it perfectly; therefore, here every month the corporate directives appear and you ask the question. To the Board of Directors of Contingents and Programming of the Corporation, chosen by the Parliament of Catalonia, which also does this control, and the Board of Professionals of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. Listen, it's the most controlled communication media corporation, more often than not, that's more over by different institutions. That doesn't happen, or much less, in the Spanish State. Listen, the adscript to the Presidency Department is for organic and presuppositional effects, because it passes the presupposition. But control, naming, etcetera, so this is part of Parliament and these different organs that control it. And I want to put in value, in addition, that, for which I am announced – I do not know the position of each group – the law that is not being prepared here seems to me to have already arrived at the report of the opinion, etc., that this is where we talk about how to learn, therefore, the different directions. You can't say that Mr. Sanchis was named after him. Why do you say, if you have followed the procedure that is established for you? Why...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no. Listen, has he followed the procedures– has he followed the procedures – established by law or not? Because now it turns out that when the opposition doesn't like it, it's wrong done – it's wrong done. You're the only one to do... I suppose you'd like it, so there's a director who has or doesn't have ideology, represents that now it's forbidden to have ideology... Another thing is that... it's a crime, to have ideology? I'm asking. The other thing is your job and that you do it rigorously and that you value yourself, etc. But, listen, the procedure for choosing Mr. Sanchis agreed with the law. Second, the issue that you've been dealing with is that you're vice president but that you're in the presidency working. I would like to remind you that precisely, Mr Mejía, because of the situation in this temporary situation, the motion that was approved by the Parliament of Catalonia and the one that marks the rules, you have been contacted to hold meetings with the different parliamentary groups. It is clear to me that he met with the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is possible, he met with the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and met with the Socialist Parliamentary Group. They are waiting for his answer, because they want to see how they approach this from the law that is being processed here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, with the motion that was approved with the situation of provisionality. Listen, if you have this interest in how it's solved, since you have a request for a meeting by the direction of the corporation, I would ask you to attend to this meeting. Because, then, what they show is that you only want to bully the pot, the holder, the holder, to try to wear. And then, on the second side, I'll let you know, so, some questions. But this "teleprocess, all this, look at all these reports coming out of ACC, all these reports coming out of the different committees evaluating TV3. It's not moguin in the topics and its phrase feta. Because based on telling a lie you believe it, and it's not so – and it's not so – because it has to be rigorous. And do you know what's going on? , that all this is very controlled. And the data are the data and they are absolutely irrefutable. Just like..., look's, the people think, at the last question of the CEO, at the time of seeing..., which informs the people prefer. Long, long, long people prefer TV3. So, listen'm, don't wander with this intent to go wearing one thing and another. Emu says: « For the season you see, in what work, TV3? I don't work on TV3 res: TV3 works with TV3. I don't tell TV3, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, I can't tell it, You think you shouldn't have been on TV3? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no, okay. I'm saying that because somewhere else a fact like this, apart from the questions I should have raised, they didn't pass. I am not surprised: just as, in the accounts of the statement of Mr. Rajoy, they teach to make beixamel, so, perhaps, in the accounts of Les clavegueres de l'État, they teach us to plant a fruit tree. They find it more interesting, I don't know. But, listen, I... what's TV3 doing for the next season? You have the opportunity, once a month, to ask TV3 where you work. I didn't stay, me. I say, look, I'm... I don't know, not up to 15 days of counselor, and I haven't spoken to the director of TV3 or sent a message. I understand you're not answering me. I read my skills: it's a functional and presuppositional adscript, and that's it. Obviously, the program contract is an instrument that I have not asked for information, to see the part that corresponds to us, that is to give money, that we would like to give more money, because money is the food of politics, and therefore of the actions that you can do. So, let's see how we can connect this. But I want to remind them that, if the assumptions are the public policy foods, and you are so interested in the corporation, how did they demand a 25_per_cent decrease in the corporation's assumptions? Exactly what do they want? [[Some applause.]] I mean, exactly what do they want? For this reason, it will allow me – then I will answer you again – Mr Mejía..., I repeat to you what you have had, that I stop making persigonades, stop making persigonades with TV3. Pass from the topic to the rigor: don't vaginate with girl phrases and any given – and then I can prove it – therefore that they are disillusioned. It puts into value the agreement that will be made to the new law of the corporation and, from here, the Parliament this, that names the directives, that names all the people that have to rotate public television...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.5.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.6.0	... national of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.7.0	Thank you, Counselor. I have the word Mr. Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.8.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, no, don't talk to me about lies, because you said that at the end of the day you would declare independence and have passed these days and we're still not independent, and we're Spanish and European. That said, you talk to us about topics, you talk to us about always talking about topics, about persigonades. No, we're talking about absolute realities. All these examples – and I could put a lot more on it, huh? ; if you want, I'll put it more – they're real examples that go to our public television, and I don't talk about the radio editorials anymore. Therefore, they are not topics, they are not persigonades, but they are realities. And, besides, I'm saying that something right must have when all opposition groups, including the CUP, we agree and claim, so, a little more plurality – I'm saying that something must be right, right? Or are you absolutely right? That said, I would ask you that for your own interventions, inquiries or motions, when you talk about communication media, do an exercise, do an exercise not to talk about Spanish Television. I mean, I'm talking to him about public television and the Catalan public radio, which is his responsibility. So what I'm asking you is that it's based on your responsibilities and that you don't say anything else, because we remind you that at the Congress of Deputies we also criticize the management of Spanish Television. Moreover, we have pushed the law to change its majorities, too, in the Congress of Deputies. [[Greetings.]] Therefore, I demand you, I would tell you that you exercise your responsibility for your duties. You said you didn't even talk to the director general, with no TV3. No, if we already know who's pulling the phone – we already know. But as we don't have to know, if the president – working, certainly – of the corporation has a record of her party? – since we don't have to know, who's going to let go of this? Then he was talking to us about Mr. Sanchis, the new director of TV3, and that, well, obviously each has its own ideology. Yes, if I don't say no, the problem is that he has a responsibility in a public media outlet, and he's the director of Television in Catalonia. And, therefore, one day he already performs his duties as director of Catalonia, so, man, honestly, I think that a lot of plurality is not often, holding meetings with the stellate and talking about independence and speaking poorly of other opposition groups. You were talking to us about The State Keykeepers. We, Mr. Turull... in fact, I told him that it didn't seem too bad that this documentary was made. Did you hear me say it looked bad? All the contrary: we have to demand responsibilities where they are to be demanded. But, listen to me, I ask you, counselor: what would it seem to you that you are making a documentary of Convergence corruption? From the corruption of the last thirty years in Catalonia? Wouldn't that sound good? I'm asking you a direct question. [[Greetings.]] You may not be interested in talking about this corruption, but I think that at the same time as the Catalans, they do. Well, I could give you a lot of examples. You talk about persigonades and talk about topics, but you could talk to them about many examples: the disappearance of the Spanish word; finally, of the contract of friends, for the next season, that have an ideological tendency, therefore, concrete; of the omission of siulets, for example, to the president; finally, you could not put infinite examples. I'd like to know what you'd think if all this is happening on any other public television from any other place. Then I think we should do a little self-criticism, too. Because he didn't really talk about the hearings, but the hearings that TV3 is having aren't to pull this together – they're not to pull this together – in fact, they've dropped to one digit. And some responsibility... or something will have to be done to improve. Maybe... they didn't stop to think that maybe it turns out that half the Catalans have stopped watching TV3 because they're tired of the Great Brother of the Process? What are you tired of the monotheme? Maybe you should think about a little respect. In short, please, counselor, stop using as they have done so far the public media as a separatist and working instrument so that they can donate the public service that is claimed and required in their missions. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. The word has the counselor Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.10.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Mr. MP, you say to me: "Don't talk about Spanish Television. Home, what we want, in the best and what we serve as criteria, is... with someone we have to compare, right? And we want to compare ourselves with the best televisions, with those medias that have the most control. I've already told them all the follow-up controls the corporation has, but that's also why you compare it to a space where you're also politically there. I, for example, speak of Spanish Television..., therefore, clearly speak of Spanish Television, to compare me there. And you say to us: "What would you think you would report...? Listen, reports about corruption... I don't know whether you're looking at the corporation or not, but I've seen a lot. One thing happens here: the journalists say – and I don't know journalist –: "When everyone is complaining that he doesn't like..., because I too have seen programs that I didn't like many times. They said to you, "When everyone complains about all the parties, then, that for some you seem to be pulling more around here and others you seem to be pulling more around there – always and they say the same – "it means we're doing good. And, I insist, I don't know about journalism. But I've seen a lot of TV3 reports, man, which, you know... I haven't jumped out of joy. And I thought, some, that maybe I... but, of course, I wasn't objective, because I politically do that. Just like you're campaigning in a political formation, and surely when you see a report saying... listen, it can't be objective, and that happens to us. And when all the policies are complaining, I mean, we don't do it so badly. And that's not what the media corporation says, that's what all the journalists say. Listen, that a person who is in the direction of a media already militates to a party cancels professionally? I'm asking. Is that to say, you, all the competence you have, for the fact that you have been a member or leader of Ciutadans, to you professionally cancel? But where did we get here? What is military forbidden in a political formation? We value work and rigour. And so, let's look at all these ACC reports, let's look at all these reports from that. Listen, when there was the Palau case – say, reports... – at 3/24 – I say this because I was here and, when I went to the office, which you have connected to – don't do races like the Catalan gut, the live pheasant, huh? And when there were conclusions, and when there was all that, don't do cooking slides, as in others. I don't know which initiates will take their political formation, which are so incidents in Madrid, with the communication made by the information council of Televisio Espanyola. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, compare them. I'm saying that because the same requirement that is here, put it there. I am saying this because, at the time of teaching, one thing that is very important is credibility, and credibility means that the level of demand here must be as intense as there. Then, I, the one who gave it to him: the CEO. The CEO believe us or don't we believe him? – the CEO whether we believe in him or not? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] « Depends. D'accord, mot ben: "It depends; if the data goes in my favor, I believe it and if not, I do not believe it. Fantastic. No, I say whether we believe it or not we believe it, among other things because the CEO presides over a person proposed for Ciutadans, huh? I ask, do we believe in him or not? Certainly, that we the CEO, that the president of a person..., that here there was a tradition that the president of someone proposed for the main opposition party; this was started by President Maragall with President Rigol, that he presided for a time, and now the person who presides the CEO is proposed for you. Do we believe him or don't we believe him, the CEO? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Pause.]] Or do you have a person who presides over an organism that you don't believe in? The best that this person could do, I think, is to say, "I let him be, because if mine don't believe me, the best he could do is to let him be. [[Greetings.]] Okay. No, I'm saying that because, as I suppose you know, I'm going to go to the one who gave knowledge and not the topics, listen, when the CEO's question is said, "Which television channel do you usually see the information? – and if you see them because you have to give credibility – then it comes out a 39_per_cent, TV3; the next is Spanish Television with a 13,3. Home, it's not that bad... And then Telecinco, with a 11.5; Antenna 3, with a 9.9; The Sixth, with a 6.3, etc. So, listen, the work that they do on TV3 from the point of view of information rigor, if 39_per_cent..., and people are already big and people don't cheat, must be because they deserve a certain credibility. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, your problem, in the background, and you know it, is not if there's this lost around here, if that fact over there; the problem is that you..., it's said that for you the problem is TV3 as a concept: you wouldn't want TV3 to exist. You were born to load the linguistic immersion and TV3 is one of the most important elements of linguistic normalization. His problem isn't if there's this topic or the other, or this lost either here or there, his problem is the very existence of TV3. And ladies know that the support of this government that continues to exist as TV3 now exists and Catalunya Radio will be undeniable. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.11.0	Thank you, Counselor Turull. [[Question to the Government on social deprivation]] [[300-00202/11]] The next item on the agenda is the question to the Government on social deprivation presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.12.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, I would like to greet the people who are accompanying us today, representatives of ACRA, who within two hours will present in this Parliament a manifesto to denounce the abandonment of the administration and to explain the limited situation in the area of care for the elderly. Let us go on to say that not only does this call go from the attention to dependence, but also from the social unprotectiveness to which, in our opinion, the citizens of Catalonia are subjected. For a matter of time it is going to be impossible for me to deal with all the areas of social unprotectiveness that have characterized the management of this council with its inaction, and, on the other hand, those that it has created with its mismanagement, so I will prioritize four issues, which we consider the most urgent. I also take the opportunity to say hello, which are now being incorporated..., well, at the moment, representatives of Workers' Commissions, workers of residences, and also the association of neighbors of the Trinitat Vella neighbourhood of Barcelona. Catalonia in question of dependence in 2013 was very well located, it was one of the least dependent communities on waiting list had and where more people were attended, but from 2014 everything began to crumble and, to date, Catalonia is the only autonomous community that has increased the waiting list of all communities in 2016. The waiting list in Catalonia is the second highest in Spain, after the Canary Islands, with 42_per_cent of the people on the waiting list. We know that the Generalitat pays a large part of the unit's services, and we therefore join in the complaint that the Government of the State has stopped funding a policy in which it does not believe. But what has no excuse is that other autonomous communities, which have had the same cuts by the Government of Spain, have made great efforts to improve the attention to the elderly, and that you have not done. The dependency sector is worse than ever, and this is because you fail to comply with the Social Services Act 2006, which says that the Social Services Portfolio is to be extended every four years, and we have been with this extended portfolio since 2010 – seven years, no more or less. You do not only fail to comply with Spanish laws, but also with Catalan laws. And this laxity makes the ratios not the right ones, the economic modules are out of date, everything has gone up: VAT, supplies. The companies in the sector do not cover the costs, the workers see their jobs precariously, the users of the residences have seen how the quality of the care has fallen. Do you plan to do something about this? Will the Social Service Portfolio be updated? Or are you going to take out the stellate again as a magic solution? Because we have been told on more than one occasion that the Social Protection Agency would serve to increase ratios and funding, and this very week the opinion of the law has been approved and, as we have predicted, it is an empty shell that does not provide solutions to this whole disaster. From Citizens we do not understand how this Administration no longer and better bets for this public investment, which is the one that generates the greatest economic returns, that is, 40_per_cent of the public expenditure in dependence is reinvested again to the State under taxes. The current Social Services Portfolio does not respond to today's needs, does not respond to the needs of users, nor does it respond to the activity of professionals in the sector. The flexibility of the ratios makes the professionals in the sector see their dedication to the support to be given to the users, the wage freeze to which they are subjected is mainly due..., is the product and result of the continuous cuts. I would like to reiterate the question: when do you intend to update the Social Services Portfolio, Counselor? When are you going to update the economic rates to adapt them to the current reality? And since we talk about dependency, I have to take advantage of this last session before the summer to make a request: the day center for the great people of Trinitat Vella is a public center that welcomes twenty-five users in the neighborhood of Trinitat Vella of Barcelona, a center that, by the way, lacks enough space to give adequate attention to these people. And as happened last summer, in August the Generalitat plans to close the three weeks leaving the users without service and offers them no alternative. The association of neighbors of the neighborhood, which accompanies us today, warns that the precarious economic situation suffered by many of the users of the center causes the food to be damaged because of the closure, as they depend on the day center to maintain a sufficient, healthy and balanced diet. All the opposition groups signed a joint motion for a resolution as a matter of urgency, given the seriousness and immediacy of the closure. This motion for a resolution could not be substantiated, so, as a desperate measure, allow me to ask you on behalf of all the parliamentary or signatory groups of this motion for a resolution not to close that centre in August, and, should you do so, to offer an alternative to users, because it has been the association of neighbours that, through volunteers, has had to offer care to users in a civic centre in the neighbourhood, but the food issue remains unresolved. And our question is whether you intend to do anything about it, counsel, and can provide a solution to this case. Another issue that worries us is that in Catalonia there are more than half a million people with disabilities and it is a collective with an alarming unemployment rate. Indeed, a proposal by Citizens to increase economic resources to promote the employability of persons with disabilities was adopted in the Plenary of Poverty, and what have you done during this legislature? Well, put the whole sector up. They already say: "Divided and you will win. You've prioritized some people with disabilities over others, and that's what you've done: cut the collective's rights and divide it, because that's good for you, divide it. Look, in the question made by Congressman Raúl Moreno a little while ago about special employment centres, you said that they had reached the consensus of all entities, because one thing that characterized them was to achieve that consensus. Well, the meetings and visits to entities, to different federations, calls you received until yesterday, show that you lied, because you have a part of the sector, which represents 70_per_cent of people with disabilities, standing at war. And you will tell me that they have just signed an agreement, but the truth is that once again the special employment centres have been without paying 50_per_cent of the minimum wage for seven months, and when the first payment occurs at the end of this month, if it happens, they will charge only for eight_1,000 workers, leaving seven_1,000 on the way, and the rest has stayed out of line 1. The other question is: when are they going to publish the call for line 2? Because, so much so that they blame Madrid, the only thing they have paid now is the part that comes from state resources. That is, the resources that come from Madrid, that is the part that has been paid for; then, what about the part of the resources that the Generalitat itself has to put in? The 207 Catalan TECs suffer a critical and desperate situation due to the defaults that the Generalitat has accumulated since last January and the most affected game is that of the USAPs: line 2 has not yet come out. Its management is putting at risk the jobs of persons with disabilities, not only physical, sensory and organic disabilities, to which they have cut half of the interprofessional minimum wage subsidy, but also those of special difficulties, which are also complaining. The question, Counselor, is: when are you going to pay off your debts to the TECs since January? Will you ensure compliance with the law with regard to special employment centres: the minimum wage, the USAPs? Are you going to convene a regulatory basis for granting grants to special employment centres that leave no one out? And the Accessibility Act: When are you going to deploy the Accessibility Act and provide the budget, Counselor? Another priority issue that concerns us: childhood. Here we would have for a monograph, which, eye, is a thing I put on the table, the need to make a full monograph about childhood, because mariner fabric. It has been six months since the adoption of the Act on the Rights and Opportunities of Children and Adolescents, but the deployment of troops has not yet been completed. But today I want to focus on the guardianship system for minors. That is, the outbursts of this legislature are countless; I could list them, but, well, it wouldn't end: the dismantling of the sexual exploitation network, testimonies of extolled children, headlines every month, union criticisms, overcrowded reception centers with children sleeping in the hallways. There are directors of centers who tell us that they receive calls from their counselors urging them to put mattresses on the floor. It is recurrent the case of the children of the tail who continue in the street snorting, while you getting into pools saying that Andalucia sends them. We also have the recent case of rents. And, look, the DGAIA is not working well, and we have very much questioned the management being carried out by the DGAIA: we have been critical of the inability to react quickly to a situation that is unsustainable in many residential centers. And the gout that has filled the glass has been the system of the awards: you appointed as Director General someone who, in our opinion, has a serious conflict of interest. Although you denied it at first, Mr. Ricard Calvo has publicly acknowledged that he is in a situation of surplus in a management position of a foundation in which, as Director General, he has signed the approval of the award of a contract of that foundation. And here's the proof. [[The speaker shows a full camera.]] We believe that, because of the conflict of interest that existed, the most honorable thing Mr Calvo could have done is to resign from this position when you offered it to him. But since he did not, at least he could have refrained from participating in any act that would prevent him from pursuing the general interest. We are talking about a gentleman who works for a foundation and intervenes in a public contract that is awarded to that foundation. And this gentleman instead of saying: "No, no, no. I don't even touch that file with a stick, for hygiene, instead of that putting a good deal on hiring. Here: « Vistiplau. We asked you about this last week in committee and you replied that in the papers you had nothing to do with Mr Calvo, but what you did not recognise is that Mr Calvo values the offers and gives the approval. And our question is..., you have the opportunity today to clarify the issue, and my question is: of a person who has been found to be in a situation of conflict of interest, who has already manifested this conflict of interest in his performance, with the supervision of the Tortosa center and with the award of contracts, you who have appointed him, who have proposed him for the post, why do you keep him in charge today? How do you justify it? How does it justify that such a person is best suited to continue to lead the DGAIA? Does he deny that Mr. Calvo has given the approval to award the contract to the surplus entity? Does it deny the veracity of this document?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.13.0	Miss De la Calle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.14.0	I'm done. Take advantage that we are in purging seasons and you purge this gentleman. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.16.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, deputies, deputies, to all the representatives who are here from the association of the comings, commissions and representatives of ACRA, with whom we have met several times. Listen, I don't know if when I'm going back to the committees I'm not listening, but what you did is a barricade of everything that came out last week to the committee that you asked yourself, that I answered question by question. I think it is an inquiry, and therefore, question by question, you know that I am in its abyss to answer each of the questions you always ask me, not just the Commission of Social Affairs, but that you yourself come in a pile of questions to the department, that we are going to answer them all. Therefore, I will give you an answer of inquiry, an answer in general, and then, if you want, we will continue to talk about what interests you, especially a specific subject. The department that encapsulates it has worked for the social protection of all citizens at all levels, and the proof is that you have created a web page that bears by name 18 Months, 18 Lies, and of division there is not a single one that speaks of social protection. Therefore, listen, give examples here of what they are interested in, but then it turns out that at the time of truth, we also talk about it. We will, therefore, take care of the focus of these measures, but as you call it unprotected, I will take care of it. Divided actions that we have done, the Government, in the matter of protection for social and labour rights, therefore, of the Department of Labour, Social Affairs and Families. First point, referring to one of the questions you asked: a plan for the progressive concertation of more than 3,500 places of social themes. It's a measure of €76 million. It wasn't a lot of legislation back there. Three thousand places in the residence of great people, some that have already been given to the disembarkation, others that, as you well know, do not open the summons: there will be all those residences that have been accredited before, and will be donated now, at the end of August, principles of September. So, 1,369 already donated, it's left for now. Day centre places for large people, more than 400; places for intellectual disabilities, 446; places for physical disabilities, 100; places for mental illness – which made three legislatures than there were – 228, and hours of early care, also – two legislatures without any increase – 12,000 more hours. Second point. We have presented the proposal for the bases of the future law of personal autonomy of Catalonia. You know that it's a model that's close to being framed in the central framework to be dependent on here, so that it helps prevent, intervene around, generate inclusive contexts and promote skills. Third. We have contributed to giving people with disabilities the opportunity to participate actively. That is why we have constituted the Council of Disability of Catalonia, the Codiscat. We can talk there about problems that directly affect them, so a step forward in the promotion. Fourth, the iniciator of the shoc plan to care for foster children and adolescents and at risk: 163 new places in 22 residential centers, 108 places in 4 intensive residence centers, 60 new places in the center of assembly, impulse of the space of visits, development of the new service of socio-educational intervention. It's all new, it's neglected, to say the least. You tell me about the guys in the queue; you know that we are working, and that this does not depend on the Generality, but on the Consorci de Serveis Socials in Barcelona, that we are, Assembly of Barcelona and Generality, where we work a lot, we have put educators on the street. So we're not just talking about these, we're talking about everyone in general, and we'll see that the seats have changed a lot. A strategic plan for the promotion of family reunification, which at these times can see the momentum we have given in information topics to the same TVs or TV3 that were earlier so openly criticized. The elaboration of a new decree to regulate the child service at the home of the little child, a subject that was missing in Catalonia, where there was a demand, and in many European countries there is. The development of action lines for the deployment of the Prevention and Approach Strategy for energy poverty. The approval of the extraordinary game, not just of 5_millions, but of 5_millions added, the ones we had placed the past year, because all locals can help in what is the poor energy. The strategy with sensellarism, a subject that you always neglect to talk about, the priority of the people who are on the street without home, without food, that never without the interventions they have made or with the questions have spoken, and that, therefore, we work there. An investment of 870_million in active employment policies for the fight against the weather and work support that benefit 350,000 people during this 2017 Catalonia. A plan, too, of an inversion that is twice as much as ever, with special programs, such as the work and training program for people over forty-five years of age, where it is going to be...... is the people who make the most of it. By the way, today's EPA data is good, I guess they've known about it, it's been a quarter that they've given themselves. We're from the communities where we've been downhill, where we've been busy, and we're going to data much before the crisis. So let's work well. A new program, much demanded for social workers, for employers and for the people of the street, the 30 Plus, that we had it for unemployed people from thirty to fifty years old, that there had never been any. An investment – I'm already at point 9 – of 177_million funds to implement the Youth Guarantee program, with a European recognition of how well it is being done from Catalonia. God: the approval of the first 7,900 places accreditation and qualification plan in different areas for those people who work and who have not been accredited. The reinforcement of the work inspection, which allowed the completion of 2016 with more than fifty_ thousand shippers, which allowed to switch to contracts people who did not have contracts and which, for example, managed to put actions in subcontracting channels as important as those of telephones, which had never been done. The originator of the Catalan Refugee Program, where I can tell you now that of the three-thousand people who are targeted as mentors, more than 1,500 have finished training and we have already started connecting the first refugee people with these mentors, the families, because they have the support. Thirteen: the agreement of the federations of special work centres, which you spoke about. You said 100_per_cent. I have never said the 100_per_cent, the opposite of what you said: the people and federations with whom we have reached the agreement represent the 70_per_cent, not the other way around, that you said the 70_per_cent stay out. Therefore, those people with difficulty, with particular difficulty, and with a presumption that it increases from 68, as there were, to 80, who know that the agreement was that it would be charged at the end of this month, and that line 2 went out to complement this line 1, which also comes out now – certainly, if they have not informed it, that everyone agrees – and with an advance of 80_percent of the names, which had not been done before. Therefore, they will have the money this month, the past and an advance so that they can pay for it peacefully. The creation of the Xarxa d'Ateneus Cooperatius, the topic of cooperatives; it was also a topic that had not been discussed. Measures for the conflicts of false co-operatives, we have also worked. The right..., the approval of the Bill of Law for the right to equality and non-discrimination. The beginning of the pre-project on the subject of aging, which you know is already here and, therefore, will be the new law which, among other things, is the transformation of large people's couples into multigenerational spaces, from small to larger people, and which, therefore, is already taking a step. Beyond that, all the youth programs, the hotels... And, finally, the guaranteed income agreement, which you have followed very subtly every meeting there, which will ensure the minimum entrances to people who are in a vulnerable situation. So, listen, I've told you different things, next to the different things that you present as lies; not one about social protection, I'll tell you again. And, therefore, I was pleased to be able to degenerate these. And then we'll talk about the points you need in concrete terms of each of the points you've told me. But if he doesn't, he knows he's at his disposal to answer all the questions, beyond the question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.17.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a word for the street lady.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.18.0	Thank you, Counselor. You didn't answer me today or last week. So, that's why we repeat the questions over and over again. Did you deny Mr. Ricard Calvo's approval to award the contract to the surplus entity? Two. Do you want me to tell you a social protection lie? I love challenges. Look, I'll explain. The day after the question of trust, Mr Puigdemont went to RAC1 and said that in case of disconnection with Spain the pensioners would not only not stop collecting the pensions, but they would rise. Okay. Well, Catalonia spends almost 5,000_million_of_euro more on pensions than it does on contributions, according to Social Security data in 2016. Catalonia's deficit is around 5,000_million_euros, so that by itself it could only pay 78_per_cent of the pensions recognized today. That's the big lie on issues..., it's one of the ones you give to justify..., and, well, on the usual line. The kids on the tail. Today it has again centrifuged responsibility for the guardianship of the children of the tail, because the guardianship of the children of the tail is of the Generalitat, it is not of the consortium. Here in the end the responsible is the Generalitat, and it is the Generalitat that has to give solution. Another lie. He says that we have done nothing about sensellarism. Do you know how many motions for resolutions have been tabled by my group in order to resolve sinogarism? Three, only in this legislature, in addition to having asked for an appearance. Do you know how many Junts have ordered for Yes? Zero. According to the Idescat – he talked about guaranteed income of citizenship –, one_of_five Catalans lives at risk of poverty or social exclusion, and knows that the indicator of risk of poverty in Catalonia has increased in the last year. And don't answer me that this is arranged with guaranteed income, because no one escapes that this income can be a help, yes, but much less it will get families out of poverty or ensure equal opportunities. And please stop appropriating it when you have been the only parliamentary group that has not supported the whole of the law. And with regard to guaranteed income, the law itself specifies that the financial benefit will be financed entirely from the budget of the Generalitat. Since it will come into force on 15 September, which is less than two months, and we all know that with the minimum income budget for inclusion there is not even a start, our question is: will they use the contingency fund to provide the guaranteed income for citizenship budget? Do you intend to use the contingency fund to guarantee that right or do you intend to use it for your separatist referendum, as many of us suspect? Please answer me: will users of Trinitat Vella's day center be given a solution? Are they going to deploy the accessibility law? Look, sometimes it's okay to look where we came from, and the other day I consulted the session log of his first appearance as Afers Socials advisor, when he came to explain the objectives of his council in this legislature. And it was revealing, indeed it was, because an in-depth analysis shows that its priorities are not what we are dealing with here today, since that day, of listening so much – I told you so – the word "structure, "structure of state, had given me the feeling of being in the College of Architects instead of in the Commission of Social Afers. Do you know how many times he used the word "country " only in his first speech? Nineteen times. And, on the other hand, do you know how many times he used the word dependence? Two. And the word 'poverty'? Six. And the one with the palm: do you know how many times he referred to disability? One. I quote his textual words: "We have very clear objectives. We want to lay the groundwork for a new republic. When he spoke of young people – who look at whether there are issues to deal with related to this sector of the population – he spoke of the participation of young people in the process they constitute, and when he spoke of immigrants, what he said was that this councillor wanted to explain to them the government's agenda and also the moment of national transition. Look, counselor, with your imperishment in wanting to leave Spain what you're getting is that there are municipalities that want to leave Catalonia, I don't know if you've heard of Batea. Look, we have a Generalitat that manages the largest budget in recent years, we have more resources, but the attention is much worse. So we're with a socially unprotected Catalonia, with a virtually dismantled social system. And, honestly, I think if you're still at the foot of this councilhouse, it's because you're more independent than anyone. Because if the criterion for ceasing or requesting the resignation of a councillor was the quality or efficiency of management, it would in all likelihood have been the first to jump from a councillor. Its only merit is that it is more independent than advising, that there is no stellate large enough to cover its poor management and the unprotectiveness to which it has subjected the weakest layers, the people most in need of its protection. The best thing you can do for Catalans is go home, advise, give way to a counselor who speaks less about a country and is more concerned about dependency, disability, poverty or childhood, who helps to strengthen the social protection system and not to dismantle it, as you are doing. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.19.0	Thank you, Mrs. De la Calle. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.20.0	Well, thank you. Answer it. I see that the monotheme, which I thought today, speaking of social protection, would not come out, they also treated it, as always, would only be missing. Therefore, only one question: have they participated in the law of the social protection of the Parliament? No, no, It's all said. Next. Miri, to say in an interpellation..., putting the social disprotection of the country is a lack of sensitivity, but not to the government, forgive, to the sector of the people of the social policies of our country, which are many, to the workers of the social service network: psychologists, teachers, social workers; for the entities of the third sector, which have been working for many years, not now; for the consortia, for the institutions. So, I didn't talk about being unprotected. You can tell me you don't like how we manage, perfect. You can tell me what we do things that you wouldn't do. But talking about lack of protection in a country that's been working for many years, not the government, but in concert with all the entities, it's really a shame and they don't know where they live. That said, I'll tell him that maybe the one who makes him more angry than anything is different, and I'll just say five. One, which we have reached the guaranteed income agreement, because you can say what you want, but it does look like social movements, that some of us were going to be collecting signatures... I don't know if you were there, the year 2013, collecting signatures for the guaranteed income of citizenship, that in this Parliament there was a year, a year before, without having agreed. And we were going to take over as the government because they didn't agree with Parliament. If you've come to terms with the past year... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I'm sorry, the police didn't agree, you can say what you want. And we were going to take it down because we wanted to change the minimum income. And yes, he said one thing that is true: the government has made a bigger assumption than there was, but it has neglected to say that the vast majority of the assumption is for social protection and social policy issues. The three departments with the most money: education, sanitation and our department. Therefore, a government with a social sensitivity, as it has always had, in concert with the entities of the third sector, but this time more than ever. Look, and you don't have to be the same as your activists and voters think you are, because, in these latest CEO data – certainly, they have already said before, who presides over a person from Ciutadans –, in the value that citizenship makes of managing public policies of the Generality we see that it's not the first problem, on the contrary, rather, they come to fruition. And do you know who approves them? Those who approve of them are the representatives, who have been asked, of Ciutadans. Therefore, I am grateful that the vagina is questioning against it, because I assume that its people are following us, that they know what we are doing, and it turns out that, in the end, they rely more on the government's policies than on their own. Citizenship, therefore, creates a very different thing from this catastrophic speech that you make: 66_percent of Catalans think that the Government of the Generality is doing a good job, both in the field of colliding and in the integration of immigration, contrary to what you have said. The 66_per_cent positively appreciates the task of social services in Catalonia, and the 53_per_cent finds that we are doing a good job of reducing inequalities. And we won't stop – we won't stop – until there is, and you know it: we're working, one rere the other. But, plus, as I was saying, your voters approve it with a 5.2 grade. So, listen, I'm talking to your voters. But, I'm telling you, I keep asking, 'cause that's the way we can get to a public that we won't get there. Pensions.............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I don't know where the data came from. The only public figures in Spain are 1995-2011, data from Social Security. In Catalonia, during this period, there were 24,124_million euros left; in Spain, same data, there was a deficit of 106,826. So, yes, ma'am, we are working on the law of social protection, and we will continue to work because our country is the best in social policies, like others. And I'm going back to saying, I work for the citizen and citizen of my country. Therefore, three times in this country, but at times the monotheme that you have dealt with. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.21.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Climate Change Law Project]] [[200-00001/11]] The next item is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Environment and Sustainability Committee on the Climate Change Bill. According to Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, and according to the Government's petition, the first word is the Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability, Mr. Josep Rull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.22.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, on behalf of the Government of Catalonia, I have the honour of having the privilege of addressing a few words at a historical moment, at a moment that transcends the history of this country, with a law that will collectively dignify us, that will dignify us as a nation: we are talking about the Law of Climate Change. Climate change is one of the great challenges that humanity faces in this 21st century. This is a phrase that does not for a long time lose its value or its importance. And in front of this magnitude you can look at another band or you can face them and look for solutions. "With the planet there is no plate, because there is no planet well," said French President Emmanuel Macron, "to know the withdrawal of the United States from the Paris accords. We want to compromise ourselves in this facet of planetary character. We approve, therefore, of a climate change law that puts the emphasis on doing things right. On one side, with mitigation policies to contribute to our share of reducing gas emissions with winter effects, responsible that the temperature of the planet continues to rise. But also with the adaptation, because there are already effects that are already there. Today we can no longer deny them: the proven rise of the sea level in certain points of our coast, the periods of intense heat, the damage to protected natural spaces or the land of conreu, and a wide list of consequences. It is up to us to take measures to adapt ourselves - there and there are less vulnerable. For all this, as in the country, Catalonia must be compromised, and we want to be compromised. The face of the climate change is not waiting for us, we have to face it. This is the attitude of this government, this today will be the attitude of this Parliament: to take on and face the challenge of climate change, because in reality for us it is a multiple challenge. First of all, it's a global challenge. With the approval of this Climate Change Law today we take a step forward, an ambitious country, since there are few references to laws that look like in other countries of the world. We always said: « A local response to global problems. Catalonia will be in this sense a pioneer in southern Europe, this will be the first law to be passed in the Spanish State, which, in its political conception of the current environment, has seen a great deal of this essential awareness. We place Catalonia on a level equivalent to that of Great Britain; Scotland also has a law of climate change its own; France, Sweden, Finland : we admiralise ourselves in the best countries of reference at these times. One of the foundations of the law is coordination with the European Union's climate change and energy policy, with its energy and climate 2020 and 2030 packages. 2020, objective: 20_percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to 1990, 20_percent reduction in renewable energy and 20_percent reduction in final energy consumption. I 2030: 40_percent reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the year 90, 27_percent reduction in renewable energy and a 27-percent reduction in energy consumption. And also, of course, this is a law that is behind the philosophy of the Paris agreements, which are more effective than ever, which we commit ourselves to with the country in an insurmountable way, agreements that are and must be an authentic way of driving international society. We must make our contribution to this European and international effort. And allow me to read an excerpt from the speech of the very Honourable President Carles Puigdemont to the general policy debate of October 5th of the year 16. President Puigdemont said: "On the 26th of January, only fourteen days after the formation of the government, we will approve the Climate Change Bill. We made this decision, beyond its specific content, but also because of its symbolic content and discourse. He said: « First: he expresses that the problems of the world are the problems of Catalonia. Catalonia is connected to the world and benefits greatly from the opportunities generated and its internationalization, but it is also going to actively face the challenges present and future. This law reinforces Catalonia's international positioning in the line of what establishes the Paris Agreement on climate change. We insist and underline it: it is a global challenge. And I want to tell you that the Government of Catalonia has done a lot of time to get us all involved in this challenge. We have been present at the COPs and are actively part of the great international organizations where we have been able to involve ourselves, and, in fact, we, like the country, like the Government, lead some of these international platforms. In this sense, having a specific climate change law helps to maintain a good international position on the part of Catalonia; we approach California, Denmark. Today, we can no longer go against how the world's most advanced countries have gone. I'm going back to quote the president on October 5th of last year. He said: « Second: the fight against climate change is not a government project, but a repte de pays. It symbolizes that all Catalan society, within the territory, is willing to work in this direction, both institutions such as the education system, social entities, universities and research centres, businesses and consumers. It is, therefore, also a repte of country. It must be borne in mind that climate change has a direct impact on our home, and on our economy, but also on our biodiversity, the salvation of people, the family, the poor, the migrations; it is a challenge and a problem that we directly question. I with the country repte take over. And as the great challenge of our time we have to face it. They can't not be ambitious in this ambit. The Catalans have always felt inclusive and questioned about the great problems of the world, since wars, the migration crises, until natural disasters. And Catalonia doesn't start from scratch on the climate change, with this law. We already have a long trajectory in environmental and climate. We have it with a lot of concrete work that has been done these past years, for governments of different political colors in our country, in order to consolidate a balanced natural environment, that has exercised the best preventive action, in healing of water, as a river or in the management of waste. At the same time, the Climate Change Law is a piece that is not found winged in accordance with the set of policies of this government, on the contrary. We find ourselves at a time of reconfiguration, too, of the instruments of territorial, urban and energetic planning. The 30th generation took place the presentation of the Third report of the climate change of Catalonia, a collective effort of more than one hundred and forty experts and scientists in different fields and sectors related to the climate change. It's an analysis of what happens, of what is the reality of the climate change in Catalonia, and who warns us of who our fevers are and who our strengths are. We've got a lot of work to do. And I cannot fail to quote the explicit work of the Catalan Office of Climate Change, a pioneering bet at its time, of which this country can feel very proud, and the Pact for Energy Transition. And it's that climate change is also an economic challenge of a country, of an economy that will inevitably change in a world that will inevitably change. And back to President Puigdemont's speech. "Third," she says, "has a central impact on the country's prosperity and economic model. We are ahead of a great opportunity to rethink our productive economy, implementing the new technologies and digitalization to put the emphasis on added value as a key to our competitiveness and encourage the creation of good jobs. It is, therefore, a technological and economic repte of first order. The counterposition between climate policy and economy is one of the issues that the law contributes to challenge, and it helps to generate the conviction that both have many points in common. A low carbon economy is not at all synonymous with de-industrialisation, but, on the contrary, it is a unique opportunity for re-industrialisation. This implies encouraging the development of our innovative and less intensive sectors in the use of fossil fuels, the evolution of the energy model or disincentive actions that increase emissions. Developing societies need to evolve into low carbon models, i.e., little intensity in the use of fossil fuels. For Catalonia this has a special significance, as we do not have adequate fossil resources, and therefore we see ourselves captivating from the movement of energy markets and competition growing over resources. And we don't have to do this as a country, as a nation, if this is the way forward, for example, Norway, are one of the self-sufficient European states thanks to oil? The countries of the world that guarantee a green and low carbon economy are the ones that have the most future guarantees and major options. We understand that there is no alternative to sustainability, not from the social point of view, nor, above all, from an economic point of view. Therefore, you have not felt neglected or delayed the transformations that are slowing down because we are moving decisively towards a sustainable model. We have to make a bet for sustainability, competitiveness and the lowest external dependency. If we don't get the job done now, we're going to get the job done more quickly, and that's why this country decides that we're going to get the job done to be a responsible and serious nation in international terms. This, therefore, is an absolutely necessary law and contemporary law. Global repte, repte de pays, repte economique and, later on, repte sociale. President Puigdemont said: "Quarter: we must also rethink our daily life from sustainability, based on more public transport and better connectivity, and at the same time, less forced mobility, until we build systems, for more dignified, intelligent and accessible cities. It's a social challenge. The environment and climate change, of course, are also major social challenges of our time. Denying it in the 21st century; denying the climate change and not doing so would be simply socially irresponsible. As a society we must work in our present, but also our duty to look to the future, and to look, to be, that the future is not worse. With this proposal were made the Sustainable Development Goals that this country and this Government have made their own. Our new country project is a better country project for Catalan and Catalan citizens, especially with a strong sense of responsibility. And I'm done. I think this is all very positive, especially if this is a law out of consensus. The laws of the state are those that have lasted over time, that are capable of generating broad consensus, that governments that govern this country at every moment is a lasting, lasting law, a law that the combination of political and social forces of this country is doing its own. We get to have this law after a lengthy process of dialogue and debate. Thank you for the high level of responsibility of the speakers of this law, thank you for your generosity, thank you for making possible this challenge that we are planting today. It's a law that makes us more sustainable, it's a law for the society of our time, it's a law for our own present, but also for the future that we want to live, and, above all, the will to be an intergenerational impact law. Allow me the penultimate question, which is to devote a few seconds to thanks, I insist, to all parliamentary groups and their collaboration, and to the rapporteur of the Law, the deputy Ferran Civic, who has left a very personal undertaking in this law; to the former Conseller Recoder and to Mr Josep Enric Llebot, secretaries of the Environment and Sustainability, who has been very good at measuring the inspiration of this law, as well as to the Councillor Vila, to whom he must, at the end of the day, insist, the impulse of this law; to all the technical team of the Environment and Sustainability Secretariat, with its secretariat, Marta will rise; and also to the General Director, the General, the General, the General, the General, the General, the Director, the General, the General, the General, the General, the General, the Director, the General, the General, the General, the General, the Director, the General, the General, the General. What an honor to be Medi Ambient's advisor to this country, with such an extraordinary team as you're confiscating to this Catalan Climate Change Office. To all those who have participated in the wide range of these years providing ideas, reviews, and suggestions: pioneers in defense of the environment and in alerting us to the threat of climate change, first hikers, meteorologists, research centres, NGOs and environmental entities. The top companies... are more than one hundred and fifty Catalan companies and entities that have joined the voluntary agreement program to reduce CO2 emissions when they were forced to do so. To the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development, to the assemblies that have signed the Covenant of Mayors, and to the society that acts and is conscious, since they are the ones that truly give meaning to the law. I at the Catalan Institute of Studies, obviously. The Commissioner for Transport of the European Commission, Violeta Bulc, recently came and declined an expression that seems to me to be the one that gives all the logic to which we are today. She said: "We have the planet not as an inheritance of our peers, but as a loan of our children. Today, in approving this law, this Parliament and this country understand precisely this: that our obligation is not only not to mortgage the future of our children, but that our obligation is that this loan that they have given us – this loan – return it enlarged with growth. Today, approving this law, this small country of southern Europe is looking at the Mirall and saying that it wants to be a decent country, a worthy country. Thank you so much for thinking big. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen, to make it possible. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. The words of Mr Ferran Civit, who has been appointed by the rapporteur, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.24.0	Good morning. Thank you, President, Counsellor, Counsellor, Secretary General, Director, Director, Members, Members of Parliament; also thank you very much to the people you came here today to attend the presentation of this law, but also, above all, to your approval with broad support of this chamber, and above all to your fellows, who made it possible for us, thanks to your experience, thanks to your knowledge, to broaden your eyes and to gain more ambition. Also, I don't have to say, thank you very much, in a debate that has been very complex, very long– because as you know it was the first law that was presented here in this Parliament, and we have just arrived, today, in this last plenary, for approval of this law – therefore, to the manager and to the two letters that have gone to straighten the debate. It may be recalled that this law was presented with more than four hundred items, and, thanks to the consensus generated with the different speakers, we have come to the conclusion that basically a part of these living items has remained, which will be submissive to vote later. I would also like to remind you that, through the papers, of the debates that have taken place at the different meetings that have taken place on the question, there has been a general feeling that this was a debate of ambitions and also, above all, of collectives, more than of parties. Moreover, there was also a general feeling that this should be done as much as possible, but also as much as possible. I think we've made a general consensus that this is your answer to this. In some things I must have done more, in other things, but I think it's a general feeling, if I'm allowed to speak on behalf of the different groups that have written this law. I would also like to recall here one thing that Councillor Rull commented on when he presented it: he defined it as a ‘sponge law'. I believe that the fact that all these items, these considerations, have been put forward, at the length of this law, I think that it can define enough the result that we have found ourselves. Today we present this law. Very happy, very satisfied, and I say this sincerely, of all the deputies: Sergio, Hortênia, Jordi, Mirea, Marisa. Many thanks to all of you for these debates, and more because we have experienced curious situations, as well as all that there has been some transaction between the UPC and the PP; therefore, wonderful things you see, friend Sancho, and we have seen it. [[Widow's remorse.]] I, if you'll allow me, simply to go through with what the ponència report would be, would only want to, then, comment on some of the different novelties that have been incorporated into this bill one time came in here in Parliament and subtended his vote to the ponència. As you know, there was an agreement for the assumptions and for the accompanying law that some things were already going on that we had in this law, which was the CO2 tax on vehicle emissions. So, it's already approved there, but it's back in the law. There was also, logically, the extension of the vehicle's tax on motorcycles, which have been incorporated. It has also advanced in the application of this tax in 2018. It also creates a new tax on emissions of greenhouse gases, another on the nitrous oxides of large vessels, which both go in two additional dispositions because they come later to be debated here in Parliament. Carbon assumptions have been introduced, which is a model that has been made through the British law and that has been adopted here. We'll make the calculations of the mischief and, logically, the inventories here in Catalonia, but also the inventories of winter-effect gases and their emissions in Catalonia. We introduce the concepts of 'climate neutrality, for one band, and for the other, 'no fossil and nuclear fuel consumption at 2050 time. We also have governance and transparency measures, such as the establishment of the Climate Change Expert Committee, which will be appointed and controlled by Parliament and which will indicate to the Government the task of respecting. There is also the five-year calculation of the carbon footprint of Catalonia, which will be updated periodically, as well as the calculation of the carbon footprint of certain products. There have been improvements in the sector and a new article on fisheries has been added. And now, if I may make an incision, there were some points from the Ciutadans Group, which were first made by Mrs Roldán and then by Mr Sanz, who was precisely suppressing many articles to speed up the parliamentary process. Initially the general consensus was: "Ostres, we want to talk about everything, and maybe, when we talk about everything, here is the excessive expansion of the pose. And now, perhaps, in perspective, so we should all have accepted these proposals. But, well, that said... I mean, both Congresswoman Roldán and Congressman Sanz said: "Listen, let's all go, let's settle down, and everyone has participated generously. That's right, he's extended our debate, and that's why we're on these dates. Also the activities included in Annex I of the Law 20/2009, of 4 December, also fall within the criteria per submeter to administrative intervention the already authorized activities, right? And there will logically be added emissions of greenhouse gases measured with equivalent tones of CO2. There will be an advance in the application of the measure of the elimination of bonuses, returns and aid in the acquisition of fossil origin or fossil origin fuels. There are new timelines for the Catalan energy system to reach 100_percent renewables by 2050. There is a Catalan strategy for the energetic renovation of buildings to prioritise accessibility and energy efficiency with the benefit of renewable energies, logically also linked to the mark that is made at the European level of the theme of buildings and buildings. The establishment of a transition plan for the shutdown no more than 2027 of the nuclear, old, yes, for the preservation of the places of work in the municipality where they are – the municipalities and governments, in this case we are talking about the Ribera d'Ebre and the Baix Camp. Measures for the promotion of the electric vehicle. And he also objected that 2030 is 100 per cent of the public fleet of the Generalitat. Also, by 2020, a minimum of 70_percent of the total electricity consumption of the different departments of the Generality and the bodies that depend on it must come from renewable sources; 2030, as in vehicles, must be 100_percent. Also by 2020, a minimum of 20 % of the energy consumption of public waste management facilities, sanitation of wastewater and water purification, which, as you know, are the Generality's most consumed equipment..., also because they make this transition to renewable sources of origin. Also, not to say, in line with what is being done in different countries of Europe, the government will promote measures because motor vehicles drive us as far as possible do not remain fossil internal combustion since 2030. The Government must promote the creation of energy transition agencies, municipal offices or districts. Also something that is also very important and demanded, not only for this sector but for many others: simplification, administrative agility and, logically, also the generation of tax incentives, which the Climate Change Fund has to serve for this. Measures to promote eco-dissension and fight against planned obsolescence, for the whole issue of resource avoidance and minimization of impacts. Also the follow-up of the impact of the country's productive external action. I should also like to recall a mandate, in addition, to make a draft law on biodiversity, natural heritage and biological connectivity, which, as the oldest parliamentarians know, had remained pending from previous legislatures, i.e. the..., as Mrs Grau knows. Also, a provision to force a draft law to promote sustainable agriculture and rowing, also a draft law to prevent residues, and, in this case, also the paradigm shift to go towards the zero residue target. Amendment, also, of the decree of evaluation of the generated mobility. And, also, do the relevant actions – as we have talked about the Member of Parliament – to make the Mediterranean, as far as possible, together with other Mediterranean countries, a zone free of prospections and extractive activities and exploitation of hydrocarbons. I believe that today we are presenting a law that tries to touch on many areas, quite ambitious, and that I am sure that this law will be expanded and improved in future legislative sessions by all parliamentary groups. That said, thank you very much. Very happy, very satisfied and very proud of the debates that we have had the different speakers. Very happy, too, with the personal relationships that we have established, and sometimes, the intensity and breadth of the debates. So now we're enjoying this once and for all. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.25.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. All parliamentary groups will then intervene to defend the reserved items. In the first place, Mr Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, will speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, the first one he wanted to do was to thank Ferran Civit, as he put forward the rapporteur of this law, his dedication and interest. The truth is, it's got to be said, you've worked a lot, we've been able to observe it all. There's been a lot of willingness to work with everyone and try to get everybody to agree, isn't there? "No, we're still debating this, because it came from another project, aren't we? , with another government. And, so, so, thank you for that. And also thank the rest of the Members—Hortènsia, Jordi Terrades, Mireia Boya and Marisa Xandri—for the work I've been doing since I joined there. Also give thanks to Lorena Roldán, who was on the stand of this law before I joined me; to the Navy Bravo, and to our advisor, Ernesto Suárez. Well, we have a law that will be born with a fairly broad consensus, at least in most of its text, in most of its articles. And it will be born with this consensus because we agree, all of us, that climate change is a global challenge that we have to face; it is a challenge that does not address political borders, but affects humanity as a whole. And it has to do with global challenges, what happens with the increase in population and the increase in the consumption of natural resources and energy resulting from this increase in population and the development of some countries, which forces us all, especially those countries that have the most economic capacity, right? Therefore, the European countries, to make a greater effort. Because the effects of not making that effort, the effects of global warming, mean – the counselor said – the increase of the seas, which has negative effects on the environment and the natural environment, but also the effects that it has at the level of biodiversity. Sometimes we think that a single degree is little, but the consequences it has are enormous. And we have to act in different sectors – in energy, in passenger transport, in industry, housing, urban planning, infrastructure, food production – because by acting on this we will be avoiding leaving a worse future for the next generations. We have to... I was saying, right? , that we live on a planet that is a loan from future generations, indeed. That must lead us to defend a model of sustainable development that will enable us to meet the current needs of humankind without compromising the possibility that future generations will also be able to meet them. In that sense, well, there is room for improvement in our country. In Spain, for example, the issue of energy certification of buildings came seven years later than in Germany, and therefore the measures or levels of insulation of buildings, which have a very important effect on emissions, have been worse as a result of this delay. So, how to overcome the challenge? We have to make changes in our economic structure. It has been said: we have to go to a circular economy, with zero residue; there has to be awareness, there has to be changes in consumption habits, and when I think about ‘changes in consumption habits I would even think about the cold that it does in this Parliament, sometimes. [[Rialles.]] I mean, we could think that..., being more austere in the use of air conditioning, and that has to do with..., that is, we don't need resources, backwards, already with what we have..., simply to lower the thermostat a little bit we can contribute to the planet. Also in the management of housing itself, isn't it? Well, raise the blind when the sun comes in, lower the one when the sun no longer shines. I mean..., and they're things that go unnoticed, but every effort adds up, every effort counts. Unfortunately, of course, there are those who deny the problem: we have on the other side of the Atlantic a gentleman with a striking tupe who denies the problem, who does not want to contribute together with the rest of the countries. And in the face of these people who deny the problem of climate change, I think, we think from Ciutadans, that we should tell them that, well, in any case, the measures that serve to alleviate the effects of climate change are good by themselves, because they improve air quality; by improving air quality, they improve people's health, their comfort, their well-being. And we see this in Barcelona: the air quality indicators of Barcelona and other major cities in our country, as it can be in Madrid or others, well, they are worrying. And to overcome this challenge, we need a commitment and collaboration between countries, regions and supranational entities: at the international level, at the European Union level, at the level of Spain and from the decentralized entities of the State, the autonomous communities or the municipalities. And this fight, this commitment, this fight against climate change what you have to do – and I think it has been seen in the tone of the interventions – is that we do not use climate change for a political struggle, but that we all together fight climate change, because the challenge has to commit us all as humans. We want to contribute to that dynamic in Catalonia. We want a Catalonia that cooperates with the rest of the regions, with the rest of the countries, that contributes to the common good and does so from an example. We do not want those policies that generate discord, but to exercise positive leadership and make Catalonia a leading region in Spain, and in Europe and in the world, in that future of a green economy that will help to alleviate those effects. In this cooperation between different levels of the Administration is the division of efforts by countries. The targets set by the European Union for reducing emissions by 40 % have not been spread equally across all countries, taking into account the economic structure of each country. And the same will probably have to be done for autonomous communities and also for areas or regions within them. The reality of the climate in Lérida is not the same as in Tarragona, for example, and therefore the environmental profitability of investing in isolating buildings in certain places in Catalonia is greater than doing in others. That means that when the distribution of effort or the distribution of the budget is made, it will have to be taken into account. Maybe you don't have to invest that much in a start, do you? , and we will have to look at what is the greatest environmental return, because investing in isolating buildings in places where it is warmer than in colder places..., therefore, environmental return and emission reduction are not the same. This law, what is this law? It's an ambitious project. It is the first autonomous law on climate change to be passed in Spain and, therefore, that can be a source of pride for this chamber and for the citizens as a whole. We do not have a basic law, and that is the responsibility of the Government of Spain, which has a political colour. But there is no need to avoid responsibilities either; in the end, the laws are done by parliaments and, therefore, all political groups have their share of responsibility in this. And it's not worth complaining about what you don't understand, and you have to involve yourself to push it too – and you could have done it from here, you could have done it – a law of climate change at the national level, because you don't have to disconnect from anything, the challenges don't disconnect from us. In any case, this Climate Change Act is an instrument for the Generalitat to develop appropriate public policies against climate change within its sphere of competence. We can increase energy efficiency, we can reduce fossil energy consumption, we can move towards renewable energy that will allow us to reduce emissions and move towards a green and sustainable development economy. Whether it will be effective or not, we will see it from its development and implementation, and it incorporates tools that we believe can be very positive if we really manage to develop the right ones, such as carbon budgets, emission inventories and also the agencies to follow up on the objectives, the achievement of the objectives. Because the law may be fine, but if we don't control the goals, if we don't get results, then a law doesn't stop being a wet paper. And, in that sense, well, there is a certain concern, which was also a bit in line with our amendments, that there is a part..., of the thirty pages that the law has, if we remove the preamble, there are ten that are a magnificent declaration of intentions, a fantastic resolution proposal, a government program, which is the part that refers to sectoral policies. There are sectoral regulations at the national and autonomous levels. We have a certain regulatory dispersion that we hope will not create legal insecurities or interpretation problems or difficulties in implementing policies. And, in this particular policy, I am thinking that there are things that could have been done without the need for this law. When we think about what has happened with the budget for neighborhood improvement, which in 2011 is around 85_million_of_euro and now is 35, well, these budget cuts do not contribute to the objectives pursued by this law, because one of the things that is done with neighborhood improvements and such is the energy rehabilitation of buildings. There are a number of measures that could have been taken without the need for this law. Like improving public transport, rail freight transport; there are a number of measures that should have been taken and that would have contributed to this improvement in the emission situation, which has not been done. We also recognize that there are other issues that have worked quite well, such as the impetus to wind farms. And I think we have to be fair in the analysis of reality, because sometimes there are those partisan struggles that do not contribute in any way to the common good, and that is why the tone of the debate is good to try to make it unpassionate. In any case, this law will be deployed by another government of the Generality. Let us hope that the Government will focus its efforts on public policies aimed at the common good, the process of which is to foster a green and knowledge-based economy, to recover employment and social services, to mitigate climate change from responsibility and cooperation between different administrations and not to pretend to establish a border between them. As far as the tax section is concerned, we believe that it must apply the polluter pays criterion and that taxes must be well planned and be progressively taxed. We will not support those articles that we believe do not reflect on those criteria. But in any case we will work, from Ciutadans, to rise to the challenge of climate change and thus contribute to a better future for the Catalans, the Spanish and Europeans as a whole, and humanity as a whole. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanz. Mr. Jordi Terrades, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.28.0	Mr. Counsellor, members of the Government, deputies, deputies... Before we begin this intervention I would especially like to greet Mr. Josep Enric Llebot, who is the driving force behind this law on his initial path. I think we are aware, all folded, that in the 21st century we face great global challenges. The first of these challenges affecting the conjunction of humanity is the climate change, which is the most obvious manifestation of the urgency of an economic economic transition. If the world in its conjunction, and Catalonia also, does not begin to reduce its CO2 emissions from 2020 and not up to 2050 with a reduction of 50_percent of its emissions, the planet's conjunction– which means that the most developed countries, like ours, should go to a reduction around 90_percent–, will accentuate the already visible effects of climate change with unimaginable disasters for mankind in the form of natural disasters, with the resultant rise in fame, poverty and inequality in many parts of the planet. We are the first generation to know about the gravity of environmental challenges, as well as the ability to drive a safer and fairer progress for all mankind. And we are, perhaps also, the last generation that can prevent a social and environmental collapse on a global scale. We need to accelerate the economic and economic transition and, in particular, the energy transition, we need to push effective policies to halt the deterioration of the environment. Multilateral agencies, and the UN in the first place, have developed very precise resolutions on what to do to halt climate change, cut biodiversity loss and reduce all forms of contamination. Aware of these challenges, and that the principles of solidarity are also part of the values that the socialists defend, from the very first moment we compromised our political action in a positive sense to bring this law forward. Frankly, I believe that the law that we are adopting today is a good law, that in its central structure it counts with a large dose of political consensus that will serve to guide the performance of governments following the ideological sign that the citizens decide in the future. We made a good law. The Catalan Socialists feel that we are well-recognized, not just because of the contributions we have made, but because we have not, eh? , only for the work of all the ponts and ponts. With the proposals of everyone, too, with the concessions that we have made, I sincerely believe that after a few months of work there is a law of the climate change in Catalonia better than the government came in as before. We also have to say that the pre-project was prior to the Paris summit, which has certainly also helped us in this direction. To halt the climate change, even adapt ourselves - there, requires to take exceptional measures based on scientific knowledge. It is necessary to increase energy efficiency and to cope with the change in the way of production and consumption of energy, from sources that use fossil fuels to renewable sources, as well as changing the food model, responsible for 20_percent of global warming. The Socialists have defended, and some proposals have been incorporated. I'm not talking about everyone, I'm talking about the most important. Set clear and ambitious targets for reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 2050 and 2030 so that the economy as a whole, but also each of the emission sectors, has clear, strong signals, to guide its investment decisions in each of the sectors. Adopt reduction paths that show the path to accomplish these objectives; these paths, which must be reviewable every five years. This facilitates coherence and helps to identify difficulties, which there are, and opportunities, which there are, and its periodic adaptation will allow us to adapt to the adventures that can be given at the length of time. Therefore, it is a certainty, from our point of view, that the carbon assumptions have been incorporated – this was one of the proposals of my parliamentary group – and that it is a committee of experts, the climate change committee, which makes these proposals to the Government, which will have to forward them to Parliament and it will have to be Parliament which approves this package of reduction measures at global level, but also for each of the country's production sectors. Also, the integration of an analysis of climate comptability into environmental impact assessment procedures, as well as in plan and programme memoranda, and regulatory proposals. Even, also... well, this, we hope that the thought that's still alive will be approved, so it's already asking for all this effort. The position is as follows: paragraph 262 of the opinion. Inclusion of mandatory green criteria in public procurement. Contracting by public administrations mobilises around 20 % of gross domestic product in OECD countries, and is a powerful tool of climate policy. This one's still alive, so I'm telling you, it's number 262. We have not asked for a separate vote and we hope that this final procedure will be able to incorporate it. We know that there will be corporate resistance, that they are and will be important in the different productive sectors, and in particular in the energy sector. The law announces public control mechanisms that guarantee the actual compliment of the objectives. For us, the transformation of the energy system is key to ensuring a very low carbon economy. We think we need to walk fast to an energetic transition. In order to reach 2050 with the goals set by the law– that 100_percent of energy is renewable–, or we start to set ourselves up or it will be difficult to reach these goals. He said: "We have a national pact for energy transition. Let's just fix it at this point, huh? We have announced the bases of the National Pact for Energy Transition, which the Government of the Generality has made; we recognize the effort and the work, but what I do say is that there is no political agreement, broad consensus, on how we should walk. So, I go back to mentoring the government that I lead, huh? – I know it is not you, counselor, who has this department, which is Mr Santi Vila –, this debate, this dialogue with the political forces, which should bring us, yes, to a political agreement on the national bases of the energy transition in the country. That is to say that we are about the dismantling – the law says, too – gradual of nuclear power plants and that none of these exceed its forty years of operation. We will vote against it – we announced it at the first moment, and this has not been fixed – to the whole taxation package. Even considering that environmental tax reform is a logical necessity rather than an ideological option, we would vote against taxation as structured to the law, because it is more willing, from our point of view, recaptancy than to charge emissions. We will give support to one of the final provisions, that what it does is to charge the Government precisely the elaboration of a law that gives global coverage to emissions of greenhouse gases, because we believe that the debate on environmental taxation must take place in a global and not partial way in each of the laws that come into Parliament, because we are able to replace and modify taxes that burn good resources – such as work and productive investment – for those that burn bad resources – contamination, inefficient use of energy, etc. I am using or using the terms of the European Environment Agency, and therefore we are in favour of a global debate on environmental taxation. In fact, the law instructs the Government to develop a project of these characteristics because it can be debated in the chamber during 2018, because it can enter into force in 2019. The counselor said so, and I agree: climate change is an engine, or it can be an engine, of transformation of the country's economic and product models as well. It is an opportunity; it is an opportunity to generate new areas of activity and, therefore, of job creation. The potential of green occupations is unquestionable. I see that now I have changed the time I needed to finish, so I will use part of this time for the speech I wanted to make them, some of the reflections I wanted them to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.29.0	Yes, Mr. Terrades, it was that I had put him in for a minute, but he had fifteen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.30.0	Thank you, President. I thought I was in the first place, but... [[You laugh and you see.]] Exactly: changing weather and climate. So, I left a reflection around some of the issues that came up, right? If this law was to be long or short, if this law was to enter the sector..., describe some of the actions we were to do in each of the sectors, huh? That's what's going to happen to her. From energy, from housing, from mobility, from agriculture, from ramaderia, from forest management, from civil protection: all these areas are affected by the effects of climate change, both because they are precursors of the effects as they will be obliged to adopt policies to adapt to climate change. We could have done two things. I believe that the law has chosen what it was playing for, that it is making an inventory of those questions that will be affected by any or all of the effects of the climate change – it is worth redundancy. I think the law has done well to announce all those fears. And it will correspond to all the actors involved in the diagnosis and in the formulation of solutions, from the government – the deputies and the deputies – but also all the scientists and experts who prepare the climate change reports to Catalonia... I think that the third report is a magnificent tool that we should all have as a leader at the time of making proposals, or of government or legislation, and even all the product sectors, to know who are the consequences that we can have and how we can make policies to adapt to these consequences... So, well, the fact that the law affects just all and every one of these issues I think is a law certainty, if not, we have gone wrong. It is true that after the action of government, the sectoral legislative action, it will have to be adapted in what we start to plan here. I believe that from now on the law that comes out of this Parliament may not take into account precisely that we are opening or opening up new legislation that directly affects the effects and concerns surrounding the phenomenon of climate change. He was talking to them about tax issues. I will again insist on the feeling that we believe that an environmental tax reform that harmonizes all the figures that we are already beginning to have at this time. We have the legal capacity to get in there. We believe that there is a need for an umbrella law that takes into account all the effects of environmental taxation on all sectors. Today, deputies, deputies, it's not nothing. We are following the path, yes, with a law that will be widely collected in Parliament and that commits us all and everyone in the Government of today, but in the Government of tomorrow – all and everyone – to civil society, to the productive actors, also, of Catalonia. And finally, it's obvious that it's the turn of graces: in the first term, to all the speakers of the law – Mr. Civit, Mr. Grau, Mr. Sanz, Mrs. Xandri, Mrs. Boya -, for their contributions and also for the ability to agree on central and substantive aspects of this law. To thank, also, the contributions of the Council Counsellor for Sustainable Development and the contributions of ideas that the Socialist Group has made to the Economic Forum. And now, finally, we believe in a sustainable future for our country and in our ability to work together to achieve it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.31.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next, has the word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.32.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors... Greeting all the people who accompany us today, especially the former councillor, the secretary Marta Subirà, the former secretary Llebot, all the entities, NGOs, the Environment Commission of the Barcelona Assembly, representatives of the unions, and the citizens and members of different entities who have come to see us today. Well, it's tradition to make first the graces. Well, the Jordi did it at the end, I'll do it at the beginning, because I want to thank all the members of the ponència, but especially the rapporteur. I think this is part of Parliament's fair play, but in this case I do think we need to give special thanks to the rapporteur, to Mr Ferran Civit, because I think he has been the artifice of all these consensuss, right? And I think more than a rapporteur has been a weaver among us, between the different proposals and the government, and I think he has been able to do so, so, well, because he believes himself, but apart from that, because he has emotional intelligence, empathy and, therefore, it has been a certainty to sort it out. Maybe if we'd sorted out a person... we wouldn't be here today, and I think it was fair to say it. I also want to give thanks to the letters, both Esther, Imma..., the Balagué Pain, the manager. He's worked a lot at the Dolors. It has helped us a lot, because a long time ago we worked, the proposal entered April, so there have been months of intense work. Miri, today we approve of the most important law of the legislature, and I would like, counselors, above all Councillor Rull, that here are all the members of the government, and that you are the president. Because, whatever happens, we don't know what's going to happen – I don't think you know it either, because we've come into an uncertain land – we'll have legislation because this government or the governments that come have the tools to face up to a reality that challenges us all – all of us –: the right-wing, the left-wing, the liberals, the anti-capitalists, the ‘unsavvy, the federalists' – we ask them all – because the consequences and the risks of the effects of climate change will change... well, in fact, our economy is already changing; social construction, social perception are changing; development, growth, economic decline is changing. And the costs of not acting, as the Stern report said, will be much higher than the costs of this law might seem. So we have to act. I will not repeat this: salinizations, loss of land – we spoke to the councillor, the law of agrarian waters – water problems, massive environmental migrations, and more in this sensitive area that we are, from southern Europe. Jo, miri, today I wanted to carry – not much habit, less in an eco-socialist – the words of the governor of California, who made a week ago – the Jerry Brown, a Democrat, when he was debating environmental taxation issues, he said to the Senators: "They will vote the most important vote of their lives, because they depend on the future of the country. So, look, I think today, yes, today in this Parliament we are, all the deputies, one of the most important votes of our lives, and of this Parliament by accident, because it says this: the lives of the children, girls, young people like the Year, who today accompany us. It is the most important law, because it depends on how intergenerational equity is applied at risk. That's why today, although we've kept things alive, we want to focus on what we think the law brings, the law... it's positive, isn't it? We also believe that it is an opportunity, this law, to change the linear economic model we have had so far and that it has been a disaster, a disaster due to inequality in the redistribution of wealth, environmental issues, social issues. So, it's a model to change, it's an opportunity to change this linear model, isn't it? – Extreme raw material, produce, use, lenght, predating raw materials, predating visions – for a circular economy. And we can do so because we are in the European marc, which leads the decarbonization of the economy and, therefore, we can move forward and make it not just the law that is about desires and intentions, but that brings real solutions, such as what we do through the carbon assumptions, which compromises us. And we follow the country guide with England, don't we? , which now includes working with individual carbon assumptions; there is a job of Jordi Ortega, which accompanies us, excellent in this sense. And follow the country guide like Austria, which at February 2017 – February 2017 – in a federal administrative court judgment gives them the reason to reject the extension of a third runway of an airport. Make a note of it, because that means... that's powerful. He tells them: "You can't make the third runway at the airport, because if the fire, you won't complete your emission reduction commitments. And, therefore, what makes this feeling is to put out an alert and say, "Look, those investments that are used in a large amount of CO2 are risky investments, because maybe they won't be useful from now on. Therefore, it is not only a matter of making a law of desires, but of making a law that then has great consequences in the economy. That is why I also agree with Mr Terrades, that I think it is important that, as with policies..., in the chapter of climate change adaptation policies, there is a rest for all those policies that are affected, great lines that are marked after sectorally already developed. I think it was a little bit of a certainty that the whole group here was talking about the whole pre-draft of the law that the government introduced in 2016, because we let you in and what's going on, because we then used politics in capital letters, didn't we? We've been able to make a country law of a law that came in... and with all intent, huh? , of Secretary Llebot, who I know is the artifex, and of former Councillor Vila, but it was a law that was just, poor and above all that was out of date from which the Paris agreements of COP 21 followed. So, I think it was a mistake not to introduce us and I could have worked. It's also true that this law..., I say that there was to be government, because it seriously questions and compromises who governments now or who governments in the future, so..., little joke about this, all the political groups that we are here. We, our group, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we are going to present ninety-nine reviews, from which I am happy because we have been able to negotiate, negotiate, reach agreements in more than seventy reviews, withdraw some of them and, in fact, keep them alive in the plenary, which may seem to us many, but I will also devote myself to highlighting those that we keep alive, because I think it is more important today to explain the resulting agreements than those that do not differ, and, moreover, I understand this as a starting point to be able to go even further there. So, who are the positive questions for our group? And I'll do it too... as an inventory, won't I? For example, that it is clearly fixed which are the objectives of emission reduction, and that to do so it is taken into account that the base year was the year 1990 and not 2005. Why? Because the 1990 base year is the one that established the appropriate United Nations framework, because it is a basic issue, plus: the year 2005 is when it begins, when the European Union does it on the basis of concrete issues of CO2 emissions from emissions markets, but the year 2005 is also the longest time in the economy and, therefore, it would be a bit of a trap to set the targets from 2005 to 1990 alone. Therefore, if we put it that way, it would require a lot of less effort. Therefore, it is important that this is, in the end, adapted to the projections that will be made on carbon assumptions. Also important are the objectives that have been achieved: by 2030, 40_per_cent; by 2040, 65_per_cent, and 100_per_cent by 2050, which is superambitious, 100_per_cent by 2050. The British law speaks, for example, in the carbon budget of 80_per_cent. So, well, the Catalans are like this and we hope that we can actually complete it. It is also important that – for us, very important – everything related to volunteering has been removed from the law, right? , which permeated the previous law, which during a stage has already been very good, which is done in voluntary agreements and starting from voluntary, but we believe that from then on the agreements must be binding, they must link the companies, and this, of course, implies changes in the current economic model. The former law, for example, had aspects that they said: "Well, that's what we'll do every time we don't touch economic competitiveness or... Clearly, that's what we have, because it can't be subject... But let's not tell ourselves, say Davos' report, say the G-8 summit: if it's the same capital, it's the powerful ones who have adapted – as Naomi Klein said – that the climate is changing everything, that the climate change is changing everything and everything will change. Therefore, in this sense, it is important that this part has remained out of the law. Also, very important, they have already said – for me, the central part of this law – to establish the correspondents presupposed of carbon. It's – for the people who may be doing it for us..., I don't know if they do it for TV, but for if someone later listens to it – the total number of broadcasts allowed for the Catalonian joint, which must be indicated which share corresponds to the broadcasts that are covered for the trading of broadcasts and which share of broadcasts. And that has to be global, but also by sector. This is very important, because this will change the way that... sectoral policies in each department. Also that the assessment of the carbon footprint has been incorporated into the products and that, moreover, this is..., it has been traceable, that it is seen in the labels, because this calls for the individual responsibility of each city and citizen when you go to buy a product, know how many kilos of CO2 per kilo of product you buy. Governance issues: I believe that in governance issues the law has greatly improved. Why? Because it creates the social table of the climate change, an organ with representation of entities and organizations at the environmental level, but above all because it creates the committee of experts on the climate change, which is a collegiate organ, which is independent, and which is to present its proposals to the Government and Parliament. Moreover, they are members appointed every six years, with which we leave enough to the margin of the different electoral councils and of the referendum "that this is my own, that this is yours; I mean that end up being an organ of experts. And this is very important because, as the Stern report said, the design of public policies cannot predict with detail what will be the most effective way to achieve emission reductions, but it can create mechanisms and drive citizens, scientists, to find them. And the costs of mitigation policies will depend on the effectiveness of these political and fiscal instruments that we have chosen. Therefore, I believe that a very positive value, the theme of governance. On the subject of local administration, we have improved the wording. I think we're still short, that we might have forced the local administration, or at least the big assemblies, that also work out carbon assumptions. In matters of environmental taxation – because I see that I am eating time – our proposal... Clearly, we in some of our taxes will abstain, not because we do not share the philosophy, but we believe that this is not the way. In this sense, it coincides with our view of Jordi Terrades, of the PSC: we believe that there must be an umbrella..., in the tax debate, on the rendering of work and green taxation is where this debate is to be made, because, if not, they can create contradictions, they can end up charging the same..., or the same subject. There is an integral law, which backs it up, which harmonizes the taxes already created in the different figures and the new ones that can be created. And, transiently, until... and, besides, here, there's got to be the whole issue of the right-of-mission trade, which we've been debating in this, because it's not the most effective instrument. We do not like it, but at the moment we are in Europe and we are in the world, and, therefore, we have until, from Europe, another more effective mechanism is established. Also, for us, super important, the energy issue. The themes of energy and mobility, which are key to the climate change, in the past remained flowing. In energy I think it has reached ambitious goals. In the topic of infrastructures, also important, for example, everything we have introduced in reference to the port of Barcelona; the control of emissions, the electrification... In terms of mobility, I think there's a super-important article talking about moving vehicles with fossil fuel by 2030. Think that Holland has already advanced us: the Dutch government is talking about 2025. So, too, a challenge for the entire automotive sector. Or change the entire car tax because it's passed from an exclusive model of tax horses to an issue. On the subject of tourism. This may be a flowing part because, of course, we make a declaration of intent. We can't talk about sustainable tourism and, at the same time, claim a project like Hard Rock, which will place 250,000 people in a territory that is already very crowded and has a lot of pressure. And as I see that I am running out of time, only to finish: I believe that today, if the Government and this Parliament, which has the function of control of the Government, do not forget, do their work and get out of it, we will have future as the country, and we can have it more justly, socially and ecologically. If we do as in other questions, that we have a lot of good laws and do not fulfill them, when we want to act it will be late, and be responsible for it before future generations. For this reason, deputies and deputies, today, as the governor said, will do, I believe, the vote of his life, and I am sure that all of us will be on the rise. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.33.0	Thank you, Mrs. Grau. Next, in representation of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.34.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies... salute all the members of the department and also all those, who are here with us today, that I am part of this law, that you have appeared and that, well, you belong to this sector, right? I will also begin, as did the Member who preceded me in the paragraph, giving thanks. Giving thanks, first of all, to the rapporteur of this law, to Ferran, for his good pocket, because, as was well said, therefore, he tried the maximum coordination between all the groups, and I think he got strength – it was complicated. Also thank the rest of the other players: Mr. Sanz, Mr. Terrades, Congresswoman Boya and Congresswoman Grau. Also to the letters: to Esther Andreu and Imma Folchi, and to the manager, for his good pocket. Well, I think many things have already been said, many things of this law, and I won't repeat myself, will I? , but it is clear that we understand that it must be used, in principle, therefore, to achieve the objectives set for the European Union in the field of sustainability, as well as the collections in the Paris Agreement. This law must respond to the need to define a medium and long term _frame to ensure an orderly transition from our economy to a lower carbon model that adapts to the opposite of the climate. In this line and under this line, since the People's Party we have presented a follow-up of discussions. Some of these have been incorporated, others have not, but today we will vote for them because we keep them alive. There have been various, too, appearances, as I said, which preceded the work of questioning and the result of this law, and after listening to various wishes of experts, I say that this result I do not know if it will satisfy everyone who has, therefore, been able to express their contributions. I think – and I want to make a constructive criticism, huh? I don't look bad at it, I do it on a construction basis – that it could have gone a lot deeper, because this one touches many keys, but I think there was a hurry, there was a hurry because it was over..., the legislature was over. And, besides, we know that the government of the state is, so, at the point of... well, to pull forward, too, a new state law, and, of course, here, as we want Catalonia to be pioneers at all, I think we should move on. And it doesn't seem bad to me, I mean, it seems right to me, but that's why I think we've had a little bit of a rush, isn't it? Well, the resulting text, too, must be said, has nothing to do with the draft law that Convergence and Union presented in its day, since it was written for Republican Left, that is obvious, therefore, nothing to see, from that debate to the totality. And finally, then, a law will be approved that I would define, in the end, as little realistic and, a little, a little read a little face – expensive, little realistic. They share, don't they? But we are also aware that what we can do from Catalonia is a drop in the ocean, if we do not take measures at global level, because climate change is an issue that overcomes us, that we do not understand borders and, therefore, welcome, the grains of sorrow that we can bring to it, but always between an open vision of how the states and the Union of Europe act in their conjunction. That no one believes what President Mas said, in December 2015, about this law, isn't it? "This law will give us the instruments to face this challenge. You see, we find ourselves in front of a planetary repte, as the counselor very well said, and, therefore, the words of the Lord But I believe that they have already passed to history. The text that we are adopting today is extensive, it touches so many sectors that it will hardly be possible to deploy in its integrity. Facing the gallery looks good, it is a text that looks good, impresses, but it will hardly be possible to apply. And in this sense, I think it's confounding what a man would want with what he really will be with. And I said, too, that this law is face – it's face –, it's going to come out face, to the citizen, and here I do want to spread a little, right? And we're talking about Chapter Five, about environmental taxation. The tax band on CO2 emissions from mechanical traction vehicles is creating two more taxes: one that will tax economic activities that generate carbon dioxide, and another on port emissions from large ships. The new CO2 emissions tax for some motor vehicles will not be used to meet your goal, which is to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. As this fee is established, its effectiveness will be minimal, since it records the nominal emissions of the vehicle, which consist of the technical file, independently of the actual emissions generated when it circulates. Therefore, there is no direct incentive to reduce them. As designed, the new tax acts as a tax that records ownership and not the use of vehicles. They do not therefore respond to the principle of 'polluter pays', which discourages consumption and polluting emissions, linking them to a payment. In this sense, the new tax is not in line with the positions of the European Union or other international bodies. On the other hand, this tax will hardly affect the actual renewal of the fleet of vehicles, since the decision to purchase a new vehicle is based on its price and on the available income of the buyers; therefore, in a context of economic difficulties we are more in favour than there is an incentive for the renewal of the cars, in short, positive measures. And the worst of all is that we have created a tax, from the approval of the measuring law, which is this, which will go to the Climate Fund, or I don't know if ultimately to the Environmental Protection Fund, I don't know exactly what it was like, right? , that in the end, therefore, this fund, whatever it is, will arrange it as it seemed, but in no case is assigned to measures affecting mobility and transport. That is to say, the idea is: "I collect mobility, I put it in a fund and with it we will do whatever it takes. And we'd like to know what it's about – what it's about. If this tax had at least been linked to measures on this sector, on the mobility sector, I suppose it could be better understood, that the industry would understand it better, that the same energy sector would understand it better. But no: one part, and concretely half, of the recapitation will serve to nurture – and it has already been said – the agency of natural heritage and biodiversity, which in the next few months is also expected to approve in this Parliament, certainly with the rebroadcast of an important part of the sector, but well, we will already talk about this, we will already debate it when it comes to it. As for the new tax on the big ships, I also want to make a series of considerations. In the port of Barcelona, for some time now, two actions to reduce its emissions of gases with winter effects, and one of the most feasible tools to influence the reduction of the emissions of the ships is the port subsidy of the taxes to the ship according to environmental criteria. In Europe and the rest of the world, most ports improve ships to change from much higher to much higher percentages, up to 40_per_cent, more effective in encouraging and achieving the desired appeal and attraction effect. At the same time, with this new mark of enhancements, the port wants to rethink the scheme and introduce incentive criteria that favor ships with fewer contaminating emissions and gas effects winternacle. It is also fanciful actions that seek to inform and sensitize the end customers of the merchandise and the logistics operators. We are talking about the Climate Fund, this fund also provides for the provision of input from participation in the European Union's emissions trading system, or other climate taxation instruments from the state. This supposes that it is given by the fact that from the State the resources coming from the sub-rights of emission will be territorialized. And right now, that's not it, so let's go back to flying pigeons, to telling them that this law is lacking in realism. The bill should look at the causes and consequences of climate change and the concrete actions that can last to prevent its increase, as one of the essential components of the fight against climate change is the behaviour of citizens, both personal and social. We celebrate the creation of the Catalan Climate Council, as well as the proposal for a representative composition of all areas of Catalan society, even though no date of creation has been specified. We want it to be a permanent and not an occasional participation agency, which guarantees the participation and follow-up of economic and social agents in the evolution, application and follow-up of measures or policies against climate change in Catalonia and the consequences that can be generated in the sectors involved. The law, the law as it is, does not respond to our model, especially for what it does to the model of energy production. Here, in this law, in this text, it is intended to end up fulminating nuclear, without being clear – without being clear – what is the full route to move from one energy model to another based on renewables. Let us think, from our point of view, that both of them are perfectly compatible and, in any case, nuclear power can be dispensed with at least now. The items that we have presented to you basically call for the deletion of all those points that make reference to taxation, basically for which I have already explained. We also wanted to focus on this state mark under which decisions are taken, with the aim of achieving what the European Union marks, but this will not be possible to maintain because Together for the Yes, and the CUP do not want to hear about the Spanish State, even though they like it or not, we depend on the European guidelines which, before arriving in Catalonia, which is not, are treated for the State, which is Spain. And in this sense, there is a need for coordination between different administrations: with the State, above all, but also with local administrations, where I also think we could have had a lot more impact. Well, in such a short time it's difficult to delve into sectoral issues. I just want to refer to some of the fears that we've touched, right? , which affect agriculture and treasuries. The topic of transgenics, for example: we do not believe that we should eliminate all products that have some chemical component; we do not agree to ban absolutely all transgenics, that we should see each case. And for example, also, the maintenance of the wildlife, which we also introduced into a task: whenever it is compatible, this wildlife, with the natural environment. I've already made reference, too, to what you have to do with energy and mobility. And another question: what do you do about water, right? I think it would be useful to look at water-use interchange centres; in any case, we do not agree that farmers should be obliged to use them for environmental purposes if they can be used for agricultural purposes. In short, we value this law positively; we do not share the tax bill. I think it's positive as the goal is to end up in a circular economy. And I share with my fellow citizens, especially the City, that this law will have to be deployed with a new government and, therefore, a lot of people to govern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.35.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.36.0	Thank you, President. Well, good morning to all of you who are here at home and all of you are Members and Members, Councillor, Councillor, Councillor... Start with good luck. Eth first of all, eth mes grand, ath rapporteur, Ferran Civit. It has destroyed so many energies here, in today's law, in negotiation, that there are still energies that emit gas from the "ivernacle" we have finished on the planet. [[Rialles.]] Tanben, to all the other Members and Members who have participated in the current rule of law. It was very nice to work with all of you. You think we've created a grup that's been a lot of fun and that's had a good debate, and I appreciate it was a very positive experience. It also provides for all environmental organisations, social movements and professionals in defence of my environment– to see them here and there–, for all recommendations that we have made; we have brought them in. And I think that I'm working well; it was mostly money that incorporated them into this law. And a special remorse to Salvador Lladó and Marc Cerdà, who are two people who have worked with him since the CUP - Crida Constituent, and without eri, without his own "valuous contributions to his eth trabalh que aum hèt, can not add as much gold as we liked. Alavetz, thank you, Salva and Marc. We rebrembambam, councillor, that it was "the first law of the state that entered into the current legislature, and you have its words that you used before to present it, just here, in August Plen deth Parliament. And it was then, practically, that they would approve. A year and a year and a year and a year of intense, long debate. And I think it's been so long because of the huge initial shortcomings that I have presented. It is principal, dear, that they were red linens, that they were not clear objectives– and that they were general objectives–, and that they were not binding; that they were a declaration of good intentions, even though they were not binding, and that they were a decafeinated cause. And when that cause did not bind him, he willed, he did not know if it was an accident that we aurie liked and... But, finally, I think that we have changed, and we are content with this result. We have announced that, after hours of work, debate, meetings, we have arrived at an agreement to approve it; that I have an agreement that we are going to explain well in the plenary of the press, to which the Government commits itself to taking action against climate change and good environmental taxation elements that we find essential then, precisely, today, that it follows the law, that it is binding on its undertakings, that it is people and the government, and that it is then equipped with economic resources to be able to complete it is an objective that we fix it, because if we do not have it, if not to be objective, to give it very difficult. And we talk a lot about climate change and... we do very little; we talk a lot, we do very little. We're doing a lot of science, and we can't find the day we're going through blunt measures before we fight climate change. And we are not willing to allow everything to die, a coppe, in a polished photo without immediate consequences; first, because you change climate and a big problem of yours that we are very late. Eth time to react is over, and even then it is over with good intentions, it was little political will to modify a predatory economic model around and that you lead to an unmanageable path to the environment. In second place, because it is popular classes, it does not sound like a country other than global, it is most affected by climate change. It was ham, it was a waste of labor, it's climate migration, it's tough living conditions, it was energy poverty, and so on. And, therefore, defend that your strong and transformative proposal in the fight against climate change and also fight against it is social inequalities. In the third place, the separation was a struggle against climate change, which has been the idealized image of environmentalists, conservationists, naturalists, and, by its very nature, massing it together was a struggle for a mon that continues to balance society and the environment, and is free of inequalities and able to guarantee the future of our generations, we have apostatized for the present law. This is not a question of environmentalists, but I am a question of social justice. In short, we wanted to eliminate anthropocentrist tics and to bastify sovereign ships with the collective decision-making capacity that we can guarantee was the subservience of this human species tau like the coneishem. And this isn't serious if we're not able to keep these weather conditions up and it's ecosystems like coneishem now. In what way, because we want Catalonia to lead, at European level, was a transition to that green economy, betting on the decline, betting on the changes in the predatory economic model. And all of this we are aware..., we are very aware that this cannot be done without citizens, without citizenship. And here we have to make everyone aware. May you and all of us, all of us, be citizens of today's country. And they think that with this law we give this stage, that stage to which we repeat a lot and apply little, and that it begins to make sense to this law, that sentence of "who contaminates me pays – in the present case, "who emits the effect of ivernacle, pay – at last they can say that it will be poured. There's a piece of paper that's holding her, holding her sentence... that'll contaminate, that'll pay. And I'm gonna want you to pay... since you're very critical of it was taxation, you didn't just want to recollect it; you know, that's all. If you pay tath Fons Climate will then boost it was energy transition at country level and at people's level. They're redistributive measures. They will, for environmental and social justice, contribute to the fight against climate change, and eth Govèrn a year before organizing acquittal Fons Climatic and how they will distribute themselves only from already madeish to stop them. We have many causes: we have a great deal of openness, updated global data; we have information about the treaties of Paris – absent in the initial draft–; we have explained the limitations of this market of European emission permits; we have introduced that it is Catalan objective to reach this neutral society in carbon emissions in 2050, with objectives in the middle, and we have now given it a non-autonomous path. We've marked concrete objects. Some objects that would serve for nothing are concrete tools. And we're going to highlight a few quick steps. Eth prumér – it has already been said – is a carbon suspect. Nosati considered them to be key, considered them to be a red line during negotiations, because without clear limits of emission reductions it was still meaningless, their good words. And it was she who was working on concrete limits and was then able to do so. It was the second measure: it was eco-labelling; knowing how many emissions to besonh were made of a product and what is still indicated on the label when we went to color it by a measure of consciousness, as well as a measure of stimulation of the proximity products and an economic model that continues to be local and environmentally sustainable. Three measures – package of measures –, it was environmental taxation: vehicle tax, it was economic activity tax and it was vasheth grain tax. Without having three taxes, without having fiscal measures, you have a series of lists, a declaration of good intentions, because it does not and does not have and, beyond these taxes, a sanctioning regime; you have to stop it from being complicated or not being complicated is objective. And, therefore, it was the only way that we had found before to give him the right now to link him to these taxes, even then, to eliminate all these voluntary agreements and to the fact that all of them were still binding. And here he was from where CUP was under the most pressure then that all of our amendments are still respected and traded. And this has to be extended is negotiations a lot, and it's still a bit of an agreement. Many moments were agreed to be complicated. At the end of the month, there was an inclusion in the addition of tax havens, after a lot of war, so that we could now give all of this to the Climate Change Act. And they are still forced to negotiate ath detail; they are two additional dispositions, as long as they are negotiated ath detail. Mes es linhes basics are satisfactions, everything and that are not, obviously, what I wanted was CUP initially. As much as we have room for negotiation, it is necessary, however, to reach an agreement between what was called a CUP and what it wanted, eth Govèrn. And thank you very much to Congressman Ferran Civit, who has heard of a negotiating board between the two. As you said, tanben are critics. And a lot of people will say that we don't like her. It is Chapters II and III, of adaptation to climate change and sectoral policies, as we did, and a declaration of good intentions, and later on. So we have to keep a close eye on how policies are being adapted to inter-related sectors because of climate change, right? This will be complicated, it will be long. It's all going to get involved, all the advice is going to get involved, and we'll see how it hurts. At that time, we voted against..., asked for a separate vote on Beri Articles, like the aqueth that darris was carrying the transvassions between hydrographic conchs. We are very disgusted that in a climate change law and an article ages, an apartment that you don't have was porta ath transvassamento entre conques drografiques. That's what you exist. So much for the fact that we were voting against it because plantation was a renewal of this fleet of vehicles without planting, in this reduction, it was a reduction of this number of vehicles; and to say, we change the vehicle, we do not reduce the vehicles and we were not mobilized in public transport. And one thing that I voted against is that it still allows me to make up, that is the word that has been invented, that it is "energy value of waste, that you actually want to incinerate, and that in the climate change law we think that it will not exist anymore. It's still, here, apart from residue, even if it continues to allow the incineration to last. And there are other articles that, no matter how inadequate you are, we are not very happy. As pointed out article that fixes, eth 2027, as a year deth total barrage and defined nuclear centers. At the end of the year, which is said to have no nuclear centre in Catalonia in the year 2027, which is still in doubt. And we're very happy about that. Now we have a step to recover was energy sovereignty; we have a step to consider was energy as a right, as a common good; we have a step to fix a future that follows a hundred percent renewable; we have a step, tanben, to speak of a country neutral in emissions; we have a step to speak of energy self-consumption, and we have a step to imagine that this, that republic can be sustained. Oh, come on, thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.37.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The words of Mr Ferran Civit, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.38.0	"Bones, again. Many thanks, first of all, to all the speakers for the intercanvi of flowers, which I believe are reciprocal, and which, moreover, with a climate change law that must allow flowers to continue to flourish, so I think it is good enough that this law has allowed us to do so. I also take this opportunity to say... to make a few reminders and historical memories of how this law has been. The different speakers have explained it in this final straight, but it is also fair to say that this..., the current director of the Climate Change Office, the Salvador Samitier, therefore, explained to me that the first time that this was spoken to the Government, to make a climate change law, was 2012, precisely when there was Josep Garriga, who was the first director of the Climate Change Office. And today, therefore, after all these years, finally – it has cost us – we are here. I also want to take advantage to give thanks, now that we have different advisors here, to the different departments that have involved; very many people, I mean, from Economy and History, Agriculture, Business and Knowledge... Also, indirectly, therefore, to Exteriors, throughout the theme of the 2030 Agenda, which is being carried out from their department. And, of course, also, Marc Suárez, who is the technician we have in the parliamentary group, who has also helped us a lot to make it possible. Thank you to all of them, to all of them, because today we have this law, which, regardless of whether we consider it..., some consider it a country, some consider it a region, I think it is very positive the broad consensus that today generates this law here; a consensus that, moreover, will expand and grow and will grow every time. As many of my colleagues have said about ponència, so time is tight. The past year was the warmest recorded. Keep in mind that, according to some climate models, it was the warmest of the past 115,000 years. Let's keep going back a year. What should be an abnormality is becoming normal. Every year we go trembling memories of climate. Since the year 92 – years famous for the Cobi and also for the operation Garzón – they have been marked as abnormally warm. So, curiously enough, this abnormality has become a tradition. And we go do it, and we go do it, and we go do it. So long as we don't act, we won't start changing the poles, the dynamics, and the paradigm. The 21st century will be the century of climate change, that's why we will suffer for one band, and for the other, because we will fight for it. If we don't start acting now – and that's why approval of this law is so important – 2100, according to IPCC studies, 74 percent of the population of this planet will suffer extreme heat – 74 percent. If, at least, we keep the Paris agreements, it'll be only 48_per_cent– just, huh? , just – that means half the population. The 2100 certainly won't be there for us, if it isn't that someone opts for Walt Disney's way of freezing and getting closer, so they can be present. But it seems to me that, as some of the speakers have said before, this was the vote of our life; it is the vote of our life, but above all it is the vote of the coming generations. What we're doing today will mark our own generations, not just by 2050, because we've set ourselves a neutral target for what it does for issues, not just because we've set ourselves a 100% renewable target, but because it's a huge project, it's a huge challenge. And in this case, we have to ask ourselves the different departments involved, but in the end and in the end, too, as some other people have said, this is what everyone is asking. Before, the company Sanz, so, ho deia, on the subject of air conditioning. Actually, the climate change..., we may be more comfortable with air conditioning, even if we get cooled, but outside the climate change will grow. We have a lot of beasts. And, besides, it's a reptile that's not only temperature, it's also rainfall. We remember that we are in a Mediterranean country and respect the past year has lowered the rainfall by 12_per_cent. This affects not only the generation of energy through hydroelectricity, but also logically affects the primary sector, affects the availability of water for human consumption. In the world the temperature has risen a degree of middle, but in the Mediterranean, 1.4 degrees. Also – other companies have said this – the time of volunteerism has ended, the time of responsibility begins. Here, with this law, we take responsibility. In this little corner of the world, we, like the country, in this case as the government that assumes this law, we begin to take responsibility and do not evade the compromise, we assume it fully. And it's clear that to make a paradigm shift, then, they have to make changes. And these changes, so, in this case, will go through a model that also includes taxation. But, of course, the taxation that is laid here at no time is like VAT; no one can escape from VAT. Now, what's here is a model of your taxation, a model of taxation that has a final objective: that everything you collect will precisely help those who have paid taxes to stop being polluters. And the point, too, is that as soon as possible, as soon as possible, these taxes and their recovery disappear. If we stop recapitating 2030, then fantastically, less money to the generality's assumptions, but logically much less impact on the planet. And to do all this we need a change not only of mental paradigm, of produced paradigm, but also a new change of energetic paradigm. In the world, 82_percent of primary energy is fossil fuels; renewables, only 14_percent, and nuclear, 4_percent. So, the challenge we have in Catalonia is enormous, but it is also at the level of the world. And that's why it's very important that every time we make these changes. To shut down – to shut down – the climate change we need to create the energy transition – the Member of Parliament Terrades has commented on this – and I think that the next challenge, a time we have approved this law, is in September, that we start to put ourselves on the subject of energy transition. We'll take the repte. Let's take this object, because without this energetic transition the fight against climate change will not be possible. With this law, too, we have to say – and we have already commented on this report, and it has also been commented on by different groups –, let's start a whole series of devices, that will work properly and that will enter here, in this chamber, the own tables, because the different parliamentary groups also make contributions, so that we present a law that, if I may be allowed to compare..., so if we have a sea of dragons, here what we present is a sea of laws. We present a whole legal arrangement for you to be working and getting better for all parliamentary groups in your own months. Because all these things that may be in this law... that I think in the general sense, as explained, it's quite good, it's quite ambitious; but, as we all know, everything is better. And that's why it's very important that we get here. We open a door to change, with this law: we open a door to an energy model change; we open the door to a product model change; we open the door to a society change. This society has a huge challenge, but it also has a huge opportunity to do it very well, that it serves not only for Catalonia, for the citizen of Catalonia, but for the world. Before the congresswoman, Xandri, commented, therefore, in the face of the Spanish State: the public presentation has now begun precisely, if I do not fail the memory, of the Climate Change Law. I hope that what comes up here serves because it serves other areas of the planet – and that includes the law that is made of climate change in the Spanish State –..., it serves to hope, of alllicient. Because, if possible, Catalonia's Climate Change Law serves other countries and makes it more ambitious. Both the law and the Spanish Parliament are much more ambitious than this. Because if it's much more ambitious, we'll get back to each other. Because then it will be more ambitious in Catalonia, the French will be more ambitious, the British will be more ambitious, and perhaps some day, when there is another president, even in the United States, taking over and changing. But it seems to me that this is no longer just about us. The fact that... different legislative changes are taking place in different countries has also been mentioned before. There is, for example, the British law, with the subject of carbon assumptions, which has been discussed. The objectives that have been marked by different countries: the fact that Denmark or the Netherlands have already marked, by 2025, the change from model of mobility to a model that finally abandons, once and for all, the model of internal combustion, based on fossil fuels; or now, for example, countries that are producers– such as Catalonia – of vehicles– France or the Regne Unit – have marked that by 2040 the internal combustion vehicles, therefore, will disappear. And that's not just a change in a product model for itself, but, plus, the better, that product model. And that's what we do. But I can also remember another thing: Norway, which for some things does very well..., in other things not so much, also has to be said. But some things that are doing very well... for example, by 2020, it has already been noted that all that is natural gas heating of buildings in the ‘livings' disappears. That's something here too, later or later, we'll find ourselves. Norway is planting this to replace it progressively by electricity and also replacing it progressively by biomass, which is also a great challenge that we have standing here. Here we have a climate change foundation that we believe, a natural heritage foundation, but above all climate change for mitigation and adaptation. With the climate change, as everyone has already said, everyone needs to feel concerned because everyone is involved, not only when the summer nights are hot and we use the air conditioning, but only when we need drinking water because it lowers the rainfall. Today we have not only the vote of our lives, but the vote for which they will come. Thank you very much and forward. We've done one great thing and more than we have to do. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.39.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Civit. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Why ask me the word, Mrs. Granados?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.40.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.41.0	One more?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.42.0	One more, yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.43.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.44.0	Of the Socialist Group's reserved statements there are two votes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.45.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.46.0	... 187, for a band, and all the rest of it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.47.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.48.0	We'd be interested in the 262...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.49.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.50.0	...it's done separately, too, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.51.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.52.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.53.0	Mr. Civit, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.54.0	Only for a form theme, which I have forgotten to give thanks to Territories and Sustainability, in this case to the source of Councillor Rull. [[Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.55.0	Mrs. Xandri, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.56.0	President, for a separate vote on the additional provision, a new additional provision, on the Mediterranean. [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] And I'd love it if..., you could read.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.57.0	I'd appreciate it if you could read it at the time of the vote...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.58.0	Yes, please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.59.0	...or do you want to read it now?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.60.0	You're welcome. I can read it now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.61.0	So I can read it now, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.62.0	"The Government must take the necessary measures and take the relevant actions before the competent bodies to declare the Mediterranean area free of prospecting and hydrocarbon extraction and exploitation activities. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.63.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. First of all, we shall proceed to the vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We'll vote for Emena 20. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 36 votes to 86, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 250. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 52 votes to 71, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 380. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on items 214, 215, 341 and 364. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 25 votes to 97, with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the reserved items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. We'll vote for Emena 187. The vote begins. The emena... there's a tie: 61 in favor, 61 against 11 abstentions. Therefore, as the Rules say, we will re-vote the item 187. The vote begins. There's a tie again. As you know, as the Rules say, the Bureau has to decide... two minutes, three minutes, until we re-vote and, more... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We have to call a vote. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. They know that if a tie comes out again, it's rejected. [[Pause.]] If all the spokespersons agree, we will repeat the vote. We'll vote for Emena 187. The vote begins. [[Greetings.]] The item was adopted by 72 votes to 61, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the papers... [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please. Exhibits 264, 268, 271, 278, 284, 288, 292, 296, 299 and 302. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 65 votes in favour, 68 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. First place... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, you're right, we voted for them all and this..., yeah. We will continue to vote on the 262 issue. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 107 votes to 25, with 25 abstentions. Now yes; now we will vote for the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot. We vote for the papers... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, that's it, We will continue to vote on items 63, 72, 162, 186, 374 and 389. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 20 votes to 88, with 25 abstentions. We will then vote on items 260, 263, 267, 270, 277, 283, 287, 291, 295, 298, 301 and 304. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. Now, we will continue to vote on the reserved items of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. In the first place, we shall vote on items 7, 24, 26, 37, 41, 66, 100, 126, 251, 255, 305, 311, 326 and 365. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the items 261, 265, 269, 272, 279, 285, 289, 293, 297, 300 and 303. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 61 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group Candidate for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent. Vote 50, 53, 85 and 120. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. [[Widow's remorse.]] Then we'll vote on the papers. [[the remorse of the voice persists]] – Quiet, please – 61 and 79. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 20 votes in favour, 113 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 314, 318, 334, 336, 337 and 338. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 10 votes to 113, with 10 abstentions. We shall now vote on the text of the opinion. Firstly, in response to the separate request for a vote, we shall have five votes on the text of the opinion. First of all, we vote on Article 11(3); Article 17(1), letter b. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 112 votes to 10, with 11 abstentions. We now vote on Article 19, letter b. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 102 votes to 10, with 21 abstentions. We shall continue to vote on Rule 33, paragraphs 1 and 2. The vote begins. The article was approved by 87 votes to 46, with no abstentions. We shall now vote on Rule 33, paragraph 3. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 112 votes to 11, with 10 abstentions. We will continue to vote on article 34. The vote begins. The article was approved by 71 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote now from Rule 35 to Rule 44. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 71 votes to 62, with no abstentions. We will now vote on the new additional provision on the Mediterranean. The vote begins. The additional provision on the Mediterranean was adopted by 84 votes to 49, with no abstentions. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Pardon me, I said: "The new additional provision on the Mediterranean, which was read before by Mrs Marisa Xandri. That's what we voted for separately now. Yes, Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.64.0	Yes, for a point of order. We don't have the lead on this heading that they tell me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.65.0	No, Mr Carrizosa, it's a proposal made to us by Congresswoman Marisa Xandri before the vote, which she read. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Terrades, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.66.0	Yes, to make an explanation of vote of this additional vote that was voted on, that was not in the voting guide and that originated...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.67.0	Say it. Thirty seconds...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.68.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.69.0	...Mr. Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.70.0	In any case, the position of the Socialist Group, which voted against it – it has already seen that some Members have voted in favour – the position was that we were in favour of voting this point. As if it didn't come out in the voting guide, so we did a mechanical vote, as was related to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.71.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.72.0	Yeah, for the same reason. We also voted against and wanted to vote in favour of this heading.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.73.0	So, since it's been approved, I don't think there's...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.74.0	There's no...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.75.0	He voted and was approved, huh? But it's okay, they did..., the groups have explained their vote; they have right to do so. So, let's continue with the vote, shall we? [[Pause.]] Thank you. We shall then vote on the new additional provision, second indent, on the Climate Fund; the new additional provision, third indent, third indent, on the Natural Heritage Fund; the new final provision, fourth indent, and, on the taxation of economic activities that generate gases with winter effects; and the new final provision, fifth indent, on the taxation of port emissions of large ships. The vote begins. The nine provisions were approved by 71 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Finally, we will now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion, which has not been discussed. The vote begins. The Climate Change Bill was approved by 122 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.76.0	Before passing to the next point of the order of the day, I guess that the Bureau of Parliament decided yesterday to make a minute of silence in record of the sergeant of the local police of Gavà, Mr Antonio López Álvarez, died on July 19 in act of service. [[Condol demonstration for the death of police officer Antonio López Álvarez]] The Parliament of Catalonia expresses its condolences to the family and shows its solidarity and support to the Cos of the Gavà Municipal Police. So I want to say hello, in the name of the chamber, to the family, the mayor and the governors of Gavà who are accompanying us today. We'll proceed now, all the time, to make the minute of silence. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]] [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] [[Trade law project, services and wires]] [[200-00022/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge on the draft law on trade, services and energy. According to Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, and according to the Government's petition, has the word, first of all, the Counsellor of Enterprise and Knowledge, Mr Santi Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.77.0	Many thanks, very honorable President of Parliament. Ladies and gentlemen of Parliament, the authorities of the Department of Enterprise and Knowledge accompanying me, with the Secretary of Enterprise at the front, with its Director General, Montse Vilalta, and also with the sector accompanying us, the Government has wanted to use the right to take the word for why you will understand quickly, and it is precisely the change of title in the council and therefore the need for the new team that at these times we have taken care of the responsibility to the head of the Department of Enterprise we can also make an approach, eh? , which, in fact, is part of the context of the long reflection that this bill has had in this legislature and in the previous legislature. This is an initiative finally re-elected and which today, with the participation of all parliamentary groups, will be possible, but it has had a very long gestation. In this sense, therefore, I would like my first words to be grateful to all the work that has been done by the various parliamentary groups, to all the permission with which all the sectoral considerations have been heard, both from Pimec, ABC and Retail. In short, of all the sectors that at some point gave up, they wanted to participate in this legislative initiative. Also very much to thank that all groups decided at their time not to raise any questions to the totality and that they have sought to sacrifice, at last, some of their positions, in the face of a consensus that has finally achieved reasonable levels. I would also like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Ramon Casals, who, in his double size as mayor and deputy, has also been able to incorporate realistic criteria into the initiative, into the draft law that we are now approving. It is important to reflect that I will offer you as a counselor; you have to remember the model on which we have, in short, built an order not only of the territory, but also of our commercial activity. It is obvious that if we were to build the foundational myth of our nation, of our country, we could go to the market, to Emporium, to Empuries, and, therefore, that in the origin we find that the city, the country, is constituted around a market, a commercial activity, reminds us that this is a very good tradition that it is the one that explains that today there are about 100_000 establishments that have a weight equivalent to 16_percent of the gross domestic product, or that at these times this sector can generate more than 600,000 direct work places. This is what you also have to see with a texture that at these times accounts for 99 percent of small and medium-sized establishments. It is stated that they are qualitative data that already embody us and that they are illustrating us which is our model; a model, I insist, that has been key in the configuration of a certain order of territory and society. Our peoples, our cities, our territories would not be as if they were a trade-related fabric, linked to firal activity, partly linked to a certain supply of services that distinguish us from the country of southern Europe and from the Mediterranean context. In this sense, in the order of our cities, remember that idea of complexity, of cohesion, also of compassion, which was a sensitive model in criteria of sustainability, but which was also a committed model, from the point of view of social cohesion and the protection of our heritage, of our social fabric, urban, cultural, heritage. This is what you have to see with this. A law that wants to ensure that the cities, which the municipalities can tend to self-sufficiency, can, in short, be sustainable: to optimize the soil, to protect the environment; to preserve these assets of heritage services. Finally, also, the consecration of a principle that this law did not address, because it already gave it fully assumed, that it had to see with the order of the commercial activity and of serving around the consolidated urban plots; a whole model of order, huh? , of our territories and also of our commercial activity. The position of the Government in relation to commercial activity is well-known, and in this respect, with the Director General and the Secretary of Enterprise, I have already had occasion to incorporate myself into all the important lines of work that they have to deal with at the end of digitalization. And the life and experience of digitalization as an opportunity, as an opportunity to grow commercial activity; also as an opportunity for the better of excellence, quality, training, which allows us to distinguish a model that has nothing to do with the model that is experienced in the rest of the Spanish State, and not with other continental environments. In short, growth of activity, internationalization, bet for excellence, quality and training of workers linked to this sector, and, of course, see in the digital revolution that we are experiencing an opportunity and not a problem. Regarding the law, the preamble is quite explicit: "Create the conditions that favor free and fair competition, and ultimately stimulate economic activity in a context of globalisation, in a context of modernity linked to the digital revolution. Also – and this must surely be the most relevant aspect of this legislative initiative – an opportunity to put aside once and for all the extensive legal dispersion we had; a legal dispersion that affected the activity of trade, fire, timetables, and that, without any doubt, undermined the principle of legal certainty with which any entrepreneurship, any social initiative must be able to last. It will not escape anyone that there is an effort and an attempt in the joint, an important liberating act designed to promote economic activity. And, in this sense, I think there has been a successful effort, that I want to congratulate the efforts that have been made to simplify the regulation, to release the charges in the periods of liquidation of estocs, etc.; in short, eh? , to ensure that many of the initiatives undertaken are freed from a regulatory_framework or administrative burdens that were absolutely unnecessary. It has also taken advantage of the flexibility of the standard market for the benefit of the sector and for the benefit of the city. We never lose sight of the fact that flexibility has to benefit the sector, but it also benefits the city. And, in this sense, we need to live and underline how the lawmaker's approach to the subject of downsizing – from empire to recommendation – is successful, or on the subject of promotions, etc. I think that, by the way, the digital revolution already imposed on us, so it will also be good for us to have the audacity to know how to take advantage of it and not to see it as a difficulty. An effort has also been made in relation to time regulation – from seventy-two hours/week to seventy-five hours/week, or also in relation to closing times, with a distinction between summers and winters. Perhaps – we recognize this – the government would have focused on this issue differently. In any case, we recognize the consensus effort that has sought everyone and this balance point that has been found. The government – we admit – would have gone further there, surely. Parliament has decided to narrow it down and distinguish between summer and winter. You know the reasons that brought them to this point of balance and, in any case, to the government is what we appreciate: the effort of synthesis, the effort of consensus and the effort of compromise. We will see, in the medium and long term, whether or not we have actually helped our fellow citizens at the time of making their lives easier and business more accessible. Also committed, very important, to developing the regulation of IDBs. Here the department's compromise is absolute and explicit. And this morning we're still talking to the Director General when we see the need to compromise that one year from now we can actually strengthen programs that need a piece of legislation that deploys them, and that we can even sort out the tax forms that we can reap from the truth and clarify how we can really play the strategic card that in some cases allows us to strengthen the urban economy around business, business and services. I also believe that the legislative initiative from the instrumental point of view will be useful for the classification of basic concepts. And here he got into questions that they had to deal with the balances, with the outlets or with all the surrounding and the perimeter of what the tasting areas were. It will have been incorporated, from the instrumental point of view – in fact, already exists and a good job has been done with the chamber –, the creation of the cents; a cents that we have to be able to update systemically. Or the incorporation of criteria, clear rules of the game. Surely, at some point they may be in crisis, they may be able to review, but clear rules of the game in relation to the tasting areas, but also in other aspects that were worth more or less unordered. I think it's appreciable – and as a counselor I want to highlight – the ability that Members and Members must have had to find a box that guarantees the principle of municipal autonomy, especially in the city of Barcelona. The city of Barcelona has its municipal charter, and this is a guiding principle that must always condition us, and in any case, that you have also found a way to set a criteria in the law and that the local world can also graduate, depending on each municipal and local circumstance. Finally, I would also like to point out how conditions have been defined, except that a municipality may request to be a tourist municipality; this is an important aspect. And here, again, I believe that the word that summarizes the initiative and effort that has been made is that of the search for consensus, the dialog and the transaction between the various groups. In short, a law that will certainly be approved by all parliamentary groups, with an effort to negotiate, to discuss, and important, and that, therefore, I believe that it will ultimately be more useful and will have made it better than we have found this situation just at the beginning of the parliamentary term. I don't want to end up without undermining the leadership that Councillor Baiget exercised in his moment, a councillor who, in the end, took over, huh? , a legislative initiative that already came from previous legislatures and which today, therefore, culminate in its political determination to initiate reflection and culminate it. Thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.78.0	Thank you, Counselor. The next word is the deputy Joan Ramon Casals, who has been appointed as rapporteur of the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.79.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. First..., well, I, my first speech as rapporteur, above all – above all – is of thanks, because..., the Councillor Vila explained very well, that this is a work and a law done with very many hands. It has begun, this bill more than four years ago, and now it is true that the Catalan Parliament, in four months and in four months, has had the opportunity to try, say, hard to finish and to push forward and approve a law of one of the most important sectors of our country, which is the sector, say, around trade, services and crafts and fire, huh? , a sector that does, at last, mark what is our own identity – and we don't talk about the importance it has from an economic point of view. So, this is a lot of people's work, and I think that the pose and the poses that we've had the luck is to be able to finish it with a lot of work – with a lot of work – and with a lot of good will, which is what I want to thank. But let's continue with the graces. The councilman Santi Vila said... I also, in addition, personally like you, or personally like you, the quick one – that this must be said – very quick, very quick, very quick, with which the councilman, with very few days..., well, I would say that the next day of being a councilman was already, say so, asking, already over the law; which is something that is very pleasing to the councilman, really, the help we also had, finally, on your part and your team. Also, above all, the determination, as was said, of Councillor Baiget that this law should be brought to this legislature and approved. And especially the people who've been up there at every moment, from the department's point of view, huh? Since the Secretary General, Mr. Joan Aregio; the Director General, Mrs. Muntsa Vilalta; the former Director General, Mr. Recassens, who is also here, to whom I thank all the work also preevia; or Montse Gallardo or all his team. And so are the Institutional Relations, huh? , that here, with this change too..., both the Bruguese Gemma and Lluís Pitarch, that too, eh? I think... the Lluís didn't even arrive in the day, say, at the head of two hours or less, to take possession, was already working in the law, which should be appreciated. But the key really to this law, aside from the very good will, that I will thank another time, all the parliamentary groups, all the speakers and all the..., and all the speakers, also from the sector. Say, we came from a project that had been working, I repeat, many years ago, in which the whole sector affected by trade, but also the craftsmanship or, for example, also the walkers, you had worked with a lot of anticipated agreements and on which the same bill reflected, which after us we have tried to improve as much as possible. I especially thank all of you who are here, from Pimec Comerç, or the Botiguers de Catalunya Group, the Direct Sales Association – which we have also affected –, the CEDAC, Commerce, the Barcelona Comerç Foundation, Retailcat, ANGED, Barcelona Opena, Born Comerç. And we could tell you a lot more, but these are the ones you're here today. But especially to all those who appeared during the pregnancy; you helped us very much to finish profiling or, in any case, to determine who were those points that would be better than what was the same bill. I also admit – and I say it here – that I have had, there, as two counselors who have been assisting me – has a reason to be – that it is the president of the ABC, for which it means, that it is the Jordi Vilaprino, who is here, and the president of Pimec Comerç, that it is the Alex, the Alexander Goñi, that today could not be there, but that, in any case, we have both been following. You got a reason too: what's all three of us from King Molins, huh? And, therefore, it also helped a little bit to get it done. But in any case, thank you very much for all this support, which has served us in the law to make it possible. The appearances went very well for us, I repeat, because there was a point that we made it clear that for a lot of the work you were doing, it was clear that we could deepen it a lot deeper into the law. And in this aspect, I would like to highlight points or aspects that we have been able to improve thanks to contributions, especially after the considerations that the groups have reflected, come out of these appearances. Important points, such as the circular economy or the issue of the collaborative economy, which in this especially all the..., we could say, eh? , which in particular the Parliamentary Group of the CUP or Catalonia Yes, it is possible to have made a lot of effort for us that this law also had to be made. And I think we've managed, say, major improvements. The same with the food miscarriage. The trade and restoration sector, indeed, has a lot of work to do, and these parliamentary groups have especially helped us to do so. To which we have also made a lot of emphasis on all parliamentary groups... all that you have to see with more capacity and more autonomy on the part of the joints so that you can finish profiling a little of our business model. For some, surely – and some you will say – it may not have been enough, but there is an advent in which the assemblies will have a little more capacity to profile our own model. Because, in the end, the commercial model is the fan of commerce, the government of the Generalitat, which is the main competence, but since it is partly done in the territories, in this territory we have to collaborate Generalitat, traders, but also the assemblies. In this there was also the theme of the APEU, it's one of the points where we haven't had the ability yet to close it. There's a provision that says we're going to have to make a law in the own divided_months, because there was just some standard double respect, above all, to the financing of the APEU / IDB. Therefore, there is a first regulation, but we are very pleased that this issue must be closed to all in the proper months. So, there will be, these EPAs needed to empower the shopping centers of the open cell that we have in the cities and in the municipalities, but I believe that this is certainly the only point that we have not finished with the law, but the compromise that we can do. We have greatly improved in the area of internet commerce, digital commerce, which is one of the great challenges that the world's business model has, but also, obviously, that of our country, which is a model based on proximity trade, and therefore a model, we say, based on globality and that it can enter..., it really is one of which we must look to protect. And with the law, I think we're getting ahead of ourselves, especially because we can also look at the gatherings to make this protection. And also the best regulation there has been, which I will mention more about the second intervention in this aspect. We have also just drawn up touristic municipalities; there were things that I believe were not well worded in the initial proposal. And we've made efforts on very important issues and to which I greatly appreciate the effort that all the speakers have made, huh? Especially everyone, because you already know that this law will not be a law of anyone, it will not be a law of the Government, it will not be a law of Junts for the Yes, I hope that it will be, therefore, a law that just helps the trade sector to consolidate itself; as it has been..., to consolidate itself, to grow and to protect it, is the objective. But it is true that I must thank very, very much – very much, very much –, say, the very good willingness and predisposition of parliamentary groups, of two speakers – Marc Vidal, of Catalonia Yes, he is Pot, and Alicia Romero, of the PSC –..., of all in general, eh? But it's true that the two of them are the ones that in the end... at the most complicated moments. Yes, Laura's very good will..., we said: "We certainly have not had time, have we? , in order to be able to deepen in some aspects. So, I think we've been out of time, and I know a lot about... I know hard. To Sergio..., it is also true that he had very clear ideas; the points he defended him defended them very much, and to thank him also many things in which they helped us to power, also, to improve the law. And Albert who, well, in the points that have always defended it very clearly, has helped us a lot – I repeat: a lot – in all these new trends of trade, as have Marc or Alicia, which we have just to enter. And so, so, you've given us visions that I think are important and that the law introduces new ones, and they're visions that trade today has to take into account and that you've introduced them into this law, all three of you. But you're afraid we have to make a big effort: you're down. I believe that we have reached a very important agreement, with a very important novelty, but that in the end there is a possibility that the same trade can agree when these reductions are to be made; that they will be there, because the reductions will be there; what you will decide, the trade, when they will be. There will be winters and summers. And as it has happened, to say it in a way, in these last downfalls – for a theme also of calendars, so you agreed to advance them two days – so now it's what the law will allow. And of what I am convinced is that, more than the law is marked on the exact day of the beginning of the downsizing, you will mark the whole trade sector which day will be done. Also, very important, one of the points we have discussed most, which is the topic of visits and phone calls to the city. And in this we have introduced a new thing, which we hope will work, because it is done with this intention, which are the Robinson lists. And, therefore, from then on, to the people I ask do not sell products either by telephone or with visits to the home, if they have previously signed up for a list, said so, of rebuying this type of sale. Here, thank very, very especially, say, the paper absolutely of all, because we have made very important debates – I think we are after very much – but the final, special support of Catalonia Yes, it is in this aspect. One of the complicated points we haven't closed until the last day: tasting areas. In this, you know that – the Councillor explained – an attempt has been made to reach a point of balance with respect to a question that is important for the diversity of the same sector, for the commercial diversity, for the diversity, so to speak, of many trades, especially ovens and pastries, which we believe must have this area of tasting, but that it is true that, unfortunately, the abuse of this regulation by people, what we have done is we have to look at finding a point of balance, which has not been easy people. We think the text – and that's why we carry it – is good. And anyway, if, as with all the laws and all the things, there's something that's better, we'll always have, the parliamentary groups and the government, the opportunity to, if that's right, after having tried it, if it hasn't gone well, to do it better. In any case, the effort – I can say this – until the last moment, I mean that at this time, yesterday, we haven't closed it yet; it was until the last moment, you know. We were negotiating to find a text, which we hope will serve precisely because both the sector of the restoration and the sector, say, of the craftsmanship linked to the pa or the pastry industry, you find the spaces just to be able to improve everyone, grow and also diversify and be able to participate in what is the tasting, which is a point that our country is much advanced. I could go on a lot longer. Just the last one, and I think it's the most – most – important of all. This law, if it's been possible... apart from the patience that the ponies and ponies have had with me, huh? I said it the other time. We have had four months to make a very complicated law, one of the most important laws, from my point of view, from this country, because trade, for me, is the most important sector of this country. So, thank you for your patience, which is a little messy, and in any case, we've been able to do a lot of good work. But if this law was possible, it's thanks to the work of the people who work in this Parliament. And I'm not saying... and so are the deputies and deputies. It was thanks, for example, to the linguists, to the Nuria Lucena, especially to the manager, the Montse Alcàcer, who did a spectacular job. And, really, if anyone deserves this to come to pass, it's the Anna Casas, which is the drive, which we have here, which has done a lot of work... you know, we've all been able to enjoy, say, its magnificent councils. And, surely, if this law ever pulls... well, I'm sure it'll pull from here to a forward. Anna's really the one who's got all the merit. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.80.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Couples. The words of Ms. Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.81.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, counselor, and thank you to the public that is with us today. We're not getting out of here today with the trade law that Ciutadans would have introduced. We will not get out of here with a law of consensus between many actors involved in some important areas, and we will not get out with a law to our liking, well thought out, well thought out, which guarantees legal certainty to the sector in many aspects. But today we're going to get out of here with a new Catalan trade law, a very important and demanded law. A law, however, that we cannot make our own, because we would have opted for a more open, more flexible, more modern trading law, perhaps with a more current view than the one we are debating today. And today I think that if this government were able to eliminate, like at least, unnecessary presses, running, improvisation, today we'd have a better law than we have. We haven't had any, despite the efforts that we appreciate the department, as we have proven, these last three days of bogery – the speakers must hear me –, a time of dialogue, analysis, reflection that this law is worth hearing, and that the sector is worth hearing. Because, as the rapporteur has said, after four years of asking for this law, we cannot end this level of improvisation in important articles, in our view. Last-minute press, for example, has seen us up to eight versions of an article in two days. Let's just say it wasn't serious. We suppose that's how it went to save a little bit of the furniture from a consulting firm that hasn't approved a law in the entire legislature and that we think it might have done more than it did. That's why, among other things, this law, as I was saying, we can't make it ours. No one can ever tell us that we have not tried to be constructive and to make contributions in the form of papers to the text we are debating today, because Ciutadans has been the group that has presented the most papers; constructive, hard work, offering alternative proposals to some honest articles, presented to draft this law. And you know how many reviews the government has accepted of "we're in a hurry? Zero – zero. That's why this isn't ours. Because the trade sector has had the bad luck of not only debating its law in a period when the government was not focused on the government but on other stories, but has also rejected the distinction of the success model. And even if it's not us who's going to say the opposite, what's certain is that under this label are purely ideological intentions. We see suits to measure, that they wear unjustifiable favours or commitments and that they are very far from wanting to give a real service to the Catalan merchants or consumers, but what they are looking for is, as I said in the first intervention, when the preliminary draft was presented, to feed the report to this penós and victimist when the predictable suspensions of the Constitutional Court come. And they'll come, and the government knows it and we're all conscious. In fact, this is why we expressly have some articles in this text. Therefore, instead of working seriously, orderly, what time they have had, and defending their model of success, if they believe, here we touch, especially in matters where competition is shared, they pile up on this label of the model suitable, which does not give legal certainty to anyone and which harms above all micro, small businesses and self-employed people, who with basic and substantive articles for their activity, who are suspicious, cannot compete in equal conditions. That's why this law that you're very likely to approve of is not our law. We have also managed to introduce some transactions, some important ones, but above all important for useful ones. And the more we could be able to deal, to come to terms, if we had no press and worked hard. And not with a relaxed rhythm, huh? That we wouldn't have wanted it either, but more orderly and a little more reasonable. I think it was clear, the past you said, as the Commission of Enterprise we had, practically all the groups, to do a technical abstention because we did not have the slightest time to reflect on the changes that had occurred to the text at the last moment, taking into account, therefore, the regulatory scope that surrounds the sector. And I think that, even so, the ponència was a group, as Deputy Casals said, with a sense of desire to improve the original text, with an understanding, and that, therefore, this I want to thank all the speakers: Alicia Romero, Deputy Marc Vidal, Sergio Santamaría, Albert Botran and the rapporteur, Mr Casals, to whom I can also thank the effort to mediate between the opposition and the government, but who will recognize me that they were not the way to work. Besides, thanking, I want to thank, as Mr Casals also said, the ingenious work of the Commission's manager, Montserrat Alcàcer, and in a special way to the cast, the Anna Casas, who was available at all times and who did an ingenious job when, to advise us, power was the only one that was on the other side of the phone. And yet, this law, as I say, is not our law; neither do we, nor do we, believe that it is the law that the sector needed, and that the contributions of the groups have greatly improved the text. Our considerations and our objective was to guarantee, between a freedom of competition and..., above all to guarantee legal certainty to consumers and traders, avoiding..., we have tried to avoid the excessive unnecessary regulation and excessive restrictions that, in our opinion, are still being maintained today, to maintain, therefore, well, this legend of the model proper, with even more argument. An example of this is the topic of the timetables, which have the suspicious articles of the Commercial Schedule Act 2014, now that we have the opportunity to correct it, we make a copy-paste of the suspicious articles and place them practically as in this new rule. So, what's the point? With the intention of eliminating the legal uncertainty in this matter that children were patenting? No, no, That's why we can continue to say that the State is offensive to us and so on, when we know that competition in business hours is shared between the Generality and the State. In the end, who will continue to have doubts and problems will be the little ones, just the ones the government says it protects with this law. Honestly, at this point, the challenge was to tackle what is already a reality, which is the phenomenon of online commerce, and it's not ugly. Here we were able to incorporate our task, which asked the government for programs to facilitate the digitization of small businesses. And neither do we find that the fact of getting out of the suspension of this article has to affect the workers more, as had sometimes been said in ponència. Once again, working hours, you have to fight where you play and give real solutions to the reconciliation problems that you already have, that with a much more limited model of reconciliation problems, in one sector, apart from a lot of feminized, there are already. In this sense, we have been able to introduce measures to encourage the reconciliation of working and personal time by means of contract aid. So, as you see, it's a different force landing, too, for what it does at times. Tell the counselor that they would have... that the department would have wanted to go further in this matter. So, he took the option, counselor, but he turned it down. So... As for the consensus, a clear example of this law has been the debate of the tasting areas at the commercial establishments; a negotiation that, to my humble understanding, has been a disproposal. I personally... would not have introduced an article that, after years of working, as the rapporteur said, a trading law..., introducing an article without a minimum consensus between the parties involved, which is what we have found among the speakers of this law. To us... at this point I have to say that we have concretely been caught up in our skin, marbling our reviews during eight versions of the transaction, to end up fulminating our contributions, which focus above all on ensuring the equality of labor rights in these areas. Perhaps, as I said, the lack of time... we haven't had time, Mr. Couples, we haven't had enough time for dialogue, argumentation... the presses. And this was the drama of this law that we will approve today: the lack of time imposed, because no one forced us..., the lack of time imposed to analyze the wide regulation exist in many materials, such as the direct sale to home, which also carried as well. Therefore, a law that glues a lot, that wants to regulate a lot, but that continues to be full of exceptions and articles to the letter; a law that, after a reform of regulations, when we hear much advance. A law that before us models of trade, of us consumption habits, instead of giving answers to the future dona before yesterday. And that is why it will be approved in large part – in large part, the rapporteur has already said – thanks to the partner of the past, Catalonia Yes it is Pot and to the PSC. However, as we have done so far, facilitating processing – we have worked with no one – we will approve most of the articles of this law, by accountability and by compromise with the sector, aware that it was a necessary law. But let us know that this is not the law that our parliamentary group would want for the Catalan trade. Besides, President, we want to ask for a separate vote – I don't know if they have already communicated it – on the articles..., from the rest of the articles: 36, 37 and 38. Were there any asides? [[Pause.]] It's already been communicated, isn't it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, all right. So, nothing more. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.82.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Vílchez. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero, representing the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.83.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counsellor Vila. MPs, MPs, would especially like to greet the members of the merchant associations, the unions and unions that are with us today in the debate and vote on this law; a law, it has already been said, very much awaited for the sector, and for which I believe they have worked and fought a lot. Thank you, all of you, indeed, for the cooperation and work you have done, which has helped us, and which has allowed us today to carry in this chamber a law better than the one presented to us by the Government a few months ago. Counselor, I said in the debate to the whole, this is a law that goes up late. In 2013, Councillor Felipe Puig promised to present a law to Parliament, and they had to spend four years because the government, from the hand of Councillor Baiget, took back the work that you will be doing today. And I want, at this point – and it is also to be done – to recognize the attitude and willingness of Councillor Baiget, who at all times conveyed to us the need to reach agreements, the need to improve the law throughout the parliamentary process that had to be initiated. I sincerely believe that after that, too, with Councillor Vila's recovery, we have succeeded, and today the law is better than the one they presented. But it is also true that four years are very long and the commercial sector is a sector that has suffered the crisis especially in the past few years. I said in the debate to the whole: between 2008 and 2011 alone, 32,500 jobs were lost and 2,463 locals and 5,800 businesses were shut down. I believe, we believe from the Socialist Group, that it calls for a response before the year 2017. We'd have liked that, wouldn't we? , to have a government, that sure has done things, but a little more concerned to regularize some important elements, to set the mark of some important aspects that should strengthen the commercial sector, which generates an important economic dynamic, but also social, in the municipalities of our country. I always like to give data, because I think that data should help us..., or it should help us make decisions; to the government, but also to a legislative chamber. Look, I want to give them some data from 2016. In the retail trade sector, 322,500 people were employed, a total of 10_percent of the Catalan economy; 67.5_percent are women – a very important xifra. Most of the women who work there are between thirty and forty-four years old – 38_per_cent. And I give these figures because this was a line that we wanted to follow to defend some of the issues that we presented in this law. Miri, the year 2016 is accounted for 75,800 businesses and 93,000 retail establishments. It is an important figure, because it represents between 12 and 14_percent of Catalonia's economy. But they are figures that are lower than the previous year. In fact, they are figures that have been reduced since seven years ago as a result. So, it's not a cup that we like. Moreover, when we look at a little bit of this decrease in retail establishments, we see how the most important reduction is in those who have between one or nine people hired or the person employed, that is to say, that it is the autonomous who created their own company. This is a cup that we need to worry about, and it needs to make us think. Above all, we have to make the right decisions because this does not continue in this escalation of decline. So, it's true, it's a job creation, it's a job creation, but it's redoubling businesses and commercial establishments. And that makes us think that there has been a reduction in proximity and urban trade, which is what has smaller dimensions in our country. And we are also concerned that the occupation we have generated is precarious and, therefore, this is also an element that we should review, and it is true that what has done us the most harm in this is the labor reform that was approved by the People's Party with the reunion of Convergence and Union at its time. I told you before, counselor, after I put in a little bit of these figures, that today we approve of a law that is better than the one the government introduced to us. It could still be better if we had time, huh? Presses are never good advisors, and I have to tell you that they have run us too far. I understand the government's objectives, but we have made some quick appearances, we haven't had much time to prepare some good ideas, the work of the board has been exciting; everything has been very quick, at a pace that has not allowed us, I grow, to reflect with calmness, to digest some themes, and, as Mrs Vílchez said, so in some articles we have had until the eighth versions, because they didn't just satisfy us. I believe, even so, that they still don't satisfy us. But time ago, you have to close the deal before the debate and the vote. Anyway, it's true that all this has happened, and it's a better law, but not a better law. Since the Socialist Group, moreover, we have always said that this resolution solves some problems, surely, of uncertainty and legal uncertainty that the sector has, but it does not face some important challenges in the commercial sphere. And I'd like to quote a few, and I don't want to entertain. The new sales platforms – we've said it many times –: at these times one-third of the Spanish people buy it online, it was a 10-per-cent new years ago; this is a debate that needs to be faced and we need to put ourselves there. The new commercial formats; the plurality of formats; the new buying habits; logistics; the new professional profiles, which require a narrower knowledge of the product; the customer's loyalty; the purchase experience. All this we think we need to face it. And it's true that the law touches some aspects, better with the way it's been, but we don't think it's just faced some of the challenges we have. Nor did he want to enter into a substantive debate on a parallel law, which is the law of commercial equipment, but it is the one that marks the Catalan model, this Catalan model of success that we are talking about, that we sincerely believe that it has been unbalanced in the years to come. I'm talking about commercial equipment. I'm talking about modeling. And this honey wasn't meant to open. Nor did he want to open the change that was made to the tax on large commercial establishments, which was done by the door behind the Law of fiscal and financial measures, and which we would have liked to deal with, because this was also an important issue, which he would have deserved a reflection with the sector. So I know it's hard, but today we don't have the most ambitious, bravest law we'd need for the 21st century, which would surely satisfy my group much more, but it's true that it's better than what we had. Miri, I want to focus, in the minutes that remain, on highlighting those elements that have improved in the law. And I also have to say that it has improved, so, in part, thanks to the discussions or proposals made by the Socialist Group; also other groups – also other groups – but in any case they will already defend them. And I want to come in one by one. Commercial schedules. Miri, the government proposed, proposed, seventy-five hours, three hours more than we had before. We haven't heard, these three more hours, why and what they're responding to. But in any case I do not want to focus solely on the seventy-five hours, but we have not seen, in this proposal for business hours, an important development in the hourly reform. This Parliament, this country, has signed, a few days ago, a national clock reform pact. This was an occasion to prove that we are and that we are for the hourly reform. The government had not raised this issue and we have had to be some opposition groups which, with some considerations, may not be very brave or not very advanced, but we have ended up collecting, in the text that will be approved, elements that advance the hourly reform. Like what? So, as in accounts to allow the commercial establishments to tank to the gods of the night, they will have to close to the new ones. So, an hour less is a lot? Is that a bit? So, miri, it's an adventure. The Socialist Group is a possible, practical, realistic party that always tries to make progress in order to improve. What could be better? Yeah. But it seemed to us that the proposal we made was reasonable, that we should go forward; listen, that in countries like Italy or Portugal at quarter of a time the shops are closed and that we should walk here. We can't do this at once, and therefore this is a first step from which we are satisfied. You haven't approved any more items, have you? , which we also proposed, aligned with the hourly reform, but of this, at least, we are satisfied. Miri, touristic municipalities. And now why are we talking about touristic municipalities in the commercial sphere? So, because if a touristic municipality has exceptional opening times in commercial times. What we didn't want is for this route to allow many municipalities in Catalonia to have their shops opened in much wider times. And what have we done with some of our reviews? Lay down some limits; lay down some limits that seemed important to us. And, therefore, I believe that this is also an adventure that we have made. And another element, which may seem like who I'm listening to isn't very important – so, it is, and very much – that is the express resolution of the department at the time of setting aside the condition of touristic municipalities or denial in the case of the positive silence. That's not what's happening right now. And what we want is that if a municipality asks, it has to be answered expressly. And if she doesn't, she'll still be denied. We need to be curious about this, we need to have the clarity of which are the requirements and conditions to be touristic municipalities. And if you complete it, obviously you can be and you can take advantage of it, and the drawbacks, maybe, too, of being. But we thought it was important to set limits and clarify some things. And above all straighten. And I think we're getting pretty good at all the article that refers to these conditions. There's been talk about the downs, too. For us, too, it was an important issue. No one was in favour of eliminating the downfalls–none– ; we have not felt the appearances to anyone but spoken in favour. We don't understand why the government did it. It's true that we modify it, and we modify it so that they go back down. It seems to us very important for the creation of occupation in those times, also important for the urban trade and proximity, which at the end has in them a great promotional campaign. And, therefore, it seemed to us that it was necessary to keep it. It was also about the direct sale. It may seem like a smaller element, and it is true, but with this change that we make in direct sales – that we have worked many groups, despite the fact that in the end the transactions only sign some – we wanted to keep two things: u, allow direct sales, that it is a flexible business format that requires little inversion and that allows many women to join the labor market and, therefore, allow it, that in the initial text it seemed to be avoided; and, two, guarantee consumers their rights. And I think that, with some additions, as it was said, of the Robinson lists, on behalf of Catalonia, yes it is Pot and the CUP, so that we have been able to improve. And, therefore, I think we've finally made a good article. There is another more general element, which then affects two or three things, which is municipal autonomy. I'm not saying anything new if I say that the PSC is a municipalist party and we've wanted some considerations to reinforce this autonomy, this local autonomy. And I think that in some respects we have succeeded, also with the gathering of other groups. And we have achieved a special arrangement for Barcelona; that it is true that Barcelona has an idiosyncrasy to deal with in parallel. And in this sense, therefore, I think it is important that we have incorporated Article 54, on the areas of urban economic promotion, the APEU. The Socialist Group has been pursuing this regulation for many years. We brought a bill of law, the previous legislature, which he did not want because the government group did not bring it back to us. We are happy with the change of position, and it now seems, therefore, that in time we will have to present a law to hold the definitive regulation of these APEUs. We have made many changes; many changes, it is true, to the best. Let's hope that this law solves some problems, faces some challenges, and above all allows us to strengthen trade and improve some of the data we've given before. We have always defended a well-balanced business model, which has a variety of complementary business formats, with the best workers, formats, good working conditions, and above all with urban, Mediterranean, diverse, quality trade, and above all with an unforgettable shopping experience, as some of our colleagues have told us, which I believe was an intervention... there have been very interesting interventions. We want all this and we want more. And I don't know if I'm going to get it, so he's going to get it all; I'm sure he's not. That's why we ask the government to have courage and ambition after approval of this law. What I am sure is that the Members of the House who have spoken in this House have pursued this. And I want to thank all the Members – Marc, Laura, Albert, Sergio – for their work, their patience, all that we have done to try to weave a better law, and obviously also – and especially – the rapporteur, Joan Ramon, for his work. I have to say that you've made us suffer a lot – a lot –, you've made us run a lot – a lot –, you've made us angry – to me, a lot, you know. You've made me very angry. But I also have to tell you that until the end you've tried to agree, and you've tried to make this law that we're presenting today much better than we've ever known. And, therefore, I believe that this is the important and worthwhile thing to value. You and I, yesterday, we couldn't be in the giants with our children, we were locking a law. So, that's worth it; that's worth it, this law. Thanks to the deputies, really, for the work, because I also recognize that I have my character. And thanks to the members of the government and the department: thanks to Joan Aregio, thanks to Muntsa Vilalta, who have helped us and been at our side always to finally reach these agreements. At Montse Alcàcer and Anna Casas, which is a sun, I said, a saint, to hold us and to finish weaving this law and which I understand. My group's people, Rita, who also helped me to get all my ideas and all my proposals in order. And now, finally, thanks to the sector, that you're here. I hope that today we are leaving a little more satisfied than they were a few months ago in this Parliament. We did the best we could. They can't always please everyone, would it be impossible, huh? It's almost a chimera, but at least we're moderately satisfied. Much work remains to be done; we will continue to struggle for the model we have defended. We hope to have the necessary stability to work and that no one will challenge anything that is not a problem in Catalonia today. Policies are about solving problems, not creating them. So I hope we're all on the rise. I am convinced that the sector will be, we just need to be. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.84.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.85.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, friends and friends of the sector, thank you also for being here today, for patience, for insistence, for having been providing us with information, pressing when he was playing. This, of course, is what is needed because a law is as consensual as possible. It is curious the interpretation that each of them makes of the same legal text. Congresswoman Vílchez said she was overregulatory, and made a moment for the councillor, who I assume read it, at the end of the day, when she incorporated it as a councillor, interpreted it as a liberalizing wave. No: not so much, not so little. If I were a liberalist, I could assure you that we would vote against it. And that won't be the case. I think it simplifies enough, but above all it seeks consensus and complicity, and it regulates; it regulates above all aspects that were not regulated and that are necessary to regulate, because, if not, it is the West, that is already enough the country, but it would not be warm that this law, in any case, was. In the first place, manifest the good climate – I think everyone has said it –, the climate of work that there has been in the ponència. No one has left with concrete vetoes in relation to the debate on the papers presented; neither has the Government. I believe that this has to be said – it has to be said clearly – more than the ideological or programme positions that each Member can carry, and that I believe that there has been an attempt to find consensus positions based on the interpretation that we have all made, above all on the contributions that the sector – the sector – has made, that have appeared in the jobs planned for the job, and that I believe that there have been sufficiently interesting appearances as to why the Government accepted many of the issues that have been presented to it after some of the groups. To thank, obviously, the good work of the rapporteur, of the other speakers, that I will no longer quote them because all of us are quoting, and above all, as has been said here, of the technical support of Montserrat Alcàcer and the expert support of the late Anna Casas, which has facilitated the fit of many added difficulties that we have provided them all and each of us. Regretting the presses, too; sure. We warned this in the debate of totality: the law had shortcomings, especially in matters of the future. It says: "The sector is asking for it and needs it now. We're going to listen to the whole sector. Everyone needed the law, but no one rushed us – no one. Everyone told us that new adaptations are taking place, that's right, and so I think the rush was only for some specific area of this sector, that I don't know if they will eventually reflect their needs in the final text. And the same thing happens with the negotiation of the papers, we've already said. By this morning, we were going to close some threads, and we're going, in some ways, to what I don't know if we're voting wrong, because maybe we haven't had time or read what we're just saying. Therefore, it is not a good way to focus on a law as important as this one we have done today. Now, said that, we put in place everything that you have in place – which is there – and that I believe we have achieved many things in the opinion that we are debating today. The draft law placed in its objects compile in a text the standard blocks that comply with the current legislation. This was achieved in part – in part – because from the outset it renounced one of the most conflicting, which is that of commercial equipment. I believe that this is one of the initial features of the text: to try to avoid conflicts, not to collide with the State, which already has a regulation, as you know, totally liberalizing, nor with the wills often counterposed between different areas of the commercial sector. And this passing of tips and looking for the box box box gets strength in some themes – for example, the one of the drops –, little or very little in others, as I understand that of the tasting areas or the one of the commercial times. But there is one other element that we have placed in the debate of totality, more than these conflicting points that I will mention specifically, that is the willingness expressed in the exhibition part of defending a model of proximity trade – in the exhibition part – that is a trade traditionally formed by small businesses that are often family businesses, enterprises that contribute naturally to what we would say about the social life of our people and cities. And we share this will, because we understand that it is true that a town or a city where this trade located in its barrels has vitality is also a much more alive town in many ways. But we regretted that the project, more than to say, to make this intention effective is limited to the defensive gaze of always respecting other models of trade, especially in relation to time, in relation to the day of opening, in relation to the downwards or to the structural changes of social uses, such as the appearance of large surfaces, electronic commerce or free trade. And we say that this was not the way to put in value this traditional model, but that it was a new look at the traditional functions of trade; that it was the way to put in value these functions and encourage them, because other forms of trade cannot do them, and that, more than defensive action, the project had to be proactive, facilitating connecting policies, collaborative policies between the veils and the new forms of trade, fostering partnership, participating in the dynamism of public spaces and cities, focusing on elements of awareness about the consumption of the products that are coming, encouraging sustainability elements or connecting local production with the mass access of the new technologies. In this we coincided with many of the appearances. And in this project it has improved rationally and needs to be recognized. And rightly so, because between the legal texts that they regulate and that they sanction, and the legal texts that only express desires, there is a medium point, that are the legal texts, that describe future obligations to put into practice for governments. And this part, which I explained to you a while ago, is resolved as follows: in the policies of trade promotion, the Government, the present and the future, because that will be the law, it has deures that are detailed, that go in the line of facing this more holistic, more collaborative and more social view of trade, which is ultimately what can allow not only survival, but also the vitality of the model of proximity trade that we all defend, but, as we have done so far, we have done in a reactive way. And in this respect, too, we are reasonably satisfied with what the opinion we are debating today has been like. There was one last element that we also placed in the debate of totality, which was the little statutory and very governmental view of the competitions on trade. That's what I'm saying, because it's the very Statute that defines with general character a principle of municipal competence over trade, and leaves the mark that determines laws in second place, that is, this law for these competitions. The initial project mainly thought of the Government of the Generalitat. The feeling was – feeling – of mistrust towards the municipalities, when decisions about trade directly affect not only the fesomy, but also the functioning of our municipalities. In the final text there are clarobscurs, in this topic. We have clearly included, in the guiding principles, the principle of subsidiarity and respect for local administrations and their competences. We have incorporated reference to these local skills in aspects such as regulation or inspection and collaboration in promotion policies or decision making in certain issues. Not all places have this principle of subsidiarity been reflected, but we believe that it has also substantially improved with a vision of collaboration between administrations that was not explained in the original project. These were the themes that we initially raised on the project, and that were reflected in the eighty-two points that our group presented to the bill. Of these eighty-two, the opinion directly recommends twenty-four; we have not traded thirty-three, we withdraw and we keep eight. So, if we make a simple statistical balance on negotiation, frankly, it's positive. And I want to say that a good part of the opinion we are debating today incorporates nuances and girly contributions for our group; some are smaller, but others we consider to be transcendent. In order not to upset them, which must already be, after so many Members, I will allow myself to highlight some contributions that we have made in the form of statements, which seem interesting to us. First of all, in the guiding principles and purposes, which is not a small thing, we incorporate not only this principle of subsidiarity which I have already said to you, but also the development of a model of circular economy; the principles for modernising the commercial fabric, focusing on partnership, training, technology or the impulse of creativity; respect for consumer rights; promotion of equal opportunities; technical training for workers, and respect for labour rights. We also start a basic regulation on products that come through the Internet, so that they can tax and regulate according to the criteria of mobility, sustainability and security, in the same municipalities with their competitions. But we also establish elements of collaboration with traditional trade, with the use of instructions or drop boxes for these products, and we charge the Government with a regulation for sales placards known as 'collaborative economy', or sub-platforms. In the same line as the future law against food mismanagement, we put in place government programs to establish agreements between food producers, distributors or traders and social entities to avoid this mismanagement, as well as mechanisms to be able to do so. We have reached a drafting agreement on the subject of downsizing, which is not compared to the liberalizing law of the State and which at the same time listens to the demand of the whole sector and its workers, which is to maintain these periods of downsizing of summer and winter. We have also reached a drafting agreement with regard to home or phone sales; we have a sale that we defend, but that we understand that there are some good practices that some companies in the sector are already doing. And so, in this sense, we understand that the venerable company must be able to demonstrate that there has been an acceptance, on the part of the user, of the information that is to be given about the product. We also incorporate the name, regulation and functions of local trading councils, which must be a key element at the time of boosting the principles of collaboration and fostering partnership. Throughout the range of trade promotion policies, which are due to the government, we also incorporate the role of joint ventures in a clear way. But we also incorporate into the Government's obligations the development of programmes for the maintenance and sustainability of trade in rural areas – the great oblivion – to promote partnership and strategic alliances between different forms of trade, to promote professionalism and the impulse of creativity, to massify digitisation and to advance in robotics, or to trade with historical value, among others. Finally, we have also reached a drafting agreement for the areas of promotion of the urban economy, defining the collaboration mark between the associations of traders and municipalities where they are located, the principles, the basic purposes, and, as has been said here, we give a mandate to the Government because it divides into a law these principles and concrete the marks for their financing. We also incorporate an additional provision on the development of a circular economy model into business activity, which describes in detail how this model should be and what should be the implementation mechanisms. As long as we keep two items here – and I am already moving forward – we ask them to vote in favour so that we do not understand why they have not been accepted, because they complete this question. The first refers simply to the commercial activity considered to be those establishments which are basically devoted to the interchange or re-use of products. Recordin-ho : cast 17, vote in favour. And the second, in line with the agreements of the National Pact for Industry, which reverses the consideration of residue in order to proceed to consider recourses, is that the commercial activity dedicated to the intercanvi or re-use does not need the authorization to manage residues in order to operate, given that it is working with resources that can be reused........................................................................................................................................................................................................................... Finally in the presentation of motius, the result of the feelings of the papers presented, we have incorporated ourselves more descriptive of the situation in which we find ourselves. That's all not there, and now it's there. Therefore, we accept the opinion as a whole, except logically in the points where we have not been able or have not been able to close the issue, which are basically three, to more than two points that I have just said and that I have just asked them to vote. The first is that of the tasting areas, where we do not participate in the final transaction that is proposed, which is obviously better than the original text – it is true, there is consensus – but basically because we start from the basis of the subsidiarity that marks the State and that we define in this law. It does not seem to us that there are tasting areas, it does not seem to us that there are rules in a law that are marked these conditions, but each municipality must be able to adapt this regulation to its reality. The proposed transaction is done thinking about the cities, and has nothing to do with a tasting area in the city of Barcelona with one of a village of three hundred inhabitants, where probably what will be warm is a multidisciplinary establishment. So this is where we'll keep our task. The other two are because we do not want a text that is of strict state obedience. Ras and short. That's why you wouldn't want to make a law of your own. One is the consideration of touristic municipalities to those who have a commercial area. Nor does the sector want it, because of a question of competence; nor do we want it, because of a question of principles. We are against the misnamed commercial tourism, even though the Spanish law speaks to it. That's not tourism, that's consumerism. We believe that tourism can bring trade, but we do not want the trade to be the one that carries tourism, in a promotion of consumerism that is neither our model of tourism nor the model of proximity trade that we all defend. And lastly, it's the topic of business hours. Mirin, to pose the same as the state law, not to mention ours. We want to keep the seventy-two hours that we have so far, that they are already massive, and we want the stores to tank as much as two-quarters again. I'm sorry, it's what we want; therefore, it's what we keep. If we don't dare put it to the law because they will challenge us, frankly, I don't know if we can believe so many announced and never practiced disobediences that this government says it wants to do. In summary, therefore, we will vote in favour of the text of the opinion, except for the reserved items..., I forgive, except those corresponding to the reserved items; we ask that our own reserved items be voted on, and we hope that the Government, Mr Councillor, the governments will continue to develop the debts that this law places on them, in order to have a proper, advanced and socially compromised commercial fabric. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.86.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.87.0	Thank you, President. Women Members, Members of Parliament, Councillor of the Branch [[remorse of the voice]] – of the branch, of the branch..., of the branch of commercial activity; it seems to me that the reference is correct –, sectors and representatives, therefore, of the trade of Catalonia, first of all, and before positioning the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party as regards the draft law on trade, services and fairs, I would like to ask a question without answering it, Mr. Counsellor: what opinion does it deserve, or would it deserve the former advisor Baiget, this text? And it's a shame – it's a pity. I am going to answer it, because the purification that has suffered prevents us from doing so. And it seems to us frankly unfair: he will not be able to put or stamp his signature on this law, which in some way he has sponsored, promoted and therefore deserves, from that point of view, in that context – that I am not misinterpreted – full support. In any case, after this preamble, I will defend the amendments of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party and position us on the text of the opinion submitted for consideration by the plenary of Parliament. And I must start my speech with a few brief thanks to the rapporteurs and the lawyer Anna Casas, and logically to the other participating members. And then I also want to make an assessment of the whole text, which is prolific, which is complex, which is ambitious, which is omni-comprehensive and which is ultimately interventionist, and also unaware of an unstoppable reality, such as online commerce. You know that opening the countryside is, if not impossible, of course I would say that very, very, very difficult in the legal field. On the other hand – and on the other hand – the rapporteur, Mr Casals, has said here from the most absolute cordial point of view that he has acknowledged the serious shortcomings that the whole legislative process has condensed. Taking out in four months what has not been possible in four years is not a good sign, Mr Casals. I'm not going to individualize the responsibility, because you've been subjected to pressure from yourselves and strangers, and especially from the branch department, huh? I also think it is of particular importance that we stress that the tight political waist of the Junts pel Si Group also shows – it shows – that many of the issues included in the project – which were included in the project – were not prepared to negotiate the issues. And it seems to me an irresponsibility – it seems to me an irresponsibility – from the point of view – from the point of view of the necessary adaptation of the norm to the basic legislation of the State. And that has a reading. And it has a reading that I have to do; a reading that I have to do, because, look, this law, beyond collecting the needs of the sector, must also be directed – it must also be directed – to the citizens of Catalonia. What do I mean by that? That the law must, above all, provide legal certainty, and of course, that fits badly with the translation of articles in relation to commercial schedules that were in the law of the 14th and that automatically transfer to this bill, I insist, without the slightest possibility of debate, to bring closer the positions that would have prevented these precepts from being suspended. And the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party has not taken this project to the Guarantee Board nor is it going to cast a negative vote on the opinion. Therefore, we cannot be denied that we are acting with due responsibility to bring this law forward, thinking, as I say, of citizens and the sector. And that would be good if this chamber were ever to recognize itself, because our position on this law is absolutely constructive, and I have not yet heard any recognition from any group on this issue. I also want to say that the criticism that sometimes, with regard to the project, is associated with labour reform is profoundly wrong. The Labour Reform of the People's Party is backed up by data such as those known today from the Labour Force Survey. Therefore, I insist, labour reform is a very useful tool in creating employment, and it helps, of course, the specific sector of trade. On the other hand, the peril of this legislative text has been unique, and it is true that, because of the scattered regulation it operated, the recasting into one is more systematic and guarantees of legal certainty as a whole. But, unfortunately – I have already made progress – there are aspects of the law that openly – openly – contradict the basic legislation of the State in this matter, and in some respects it does not liberalize commercial activity to the extent that it is no longer only done by the Government of Spain: it is the European directives themselves, it is the defence of market unity itself. We must, as I say, act responsibly and offer legal certainty, and not precisely make laws or remove certain articles that are in direct contradiction to such regulation. Because I do not know what the Spanish Government will do, make sure what I tell you, but what will the European Commission do about it? Initiate sanctioning procedures if these laws are not reformed and then impact on the pocket of all Catalans? Act responsibly, and therefore do not provoke this circumstance, which, as you like to say, will occur ‘yes or yes. In spite of this, we are not going to focus too much on these distortions, because between the option, as I said, of absolute blockage to their approval and their conditional and nuanced acceptance, we have decided on this second possibility, beyond that those articles to which I refer – business schedules – will ultimately have to adjust to the basic regulation. I say more: the spirit that informs and works in the explanatory statement is appropriate in general terms, although that is said in the explanatory statement in a grandiose way, and, as I say, the administrative simplification that gloss has not just been translated into an articulation that is excessive, that is very detailed and that in some cases is even difficult to understand. He said earlier: "The law is not liberalizing enough. Indeed, it is not, and it is not a question of ideology. Here it is said – I think it was Deputy Vidal – that, well, if it had been, liberalizing, as the Councillor has reported, they would not support it. But if it is not a question of ideology, it is a question of legal certainty for citizens, of knowing what to do, the trade sector, which is on nobody's land in relation to business hours. And that is not a whim of the People's Party government, it is unity of the market established by the European Union. When I see that fight against market unity and the European Union, I understand that not only independence is about leaving Europe. There are other groups that seem to want to leave the European Union too, with these positions. It's a clearly irresponsible attitude. Therefore, truly, the ideological burden can be saved. It is, as I say, a question of ensuring market unity. Look, I will highlight a positive aspect – a positive aspect – so that you see that not everything is critical. The inclusion and awareness of the circular economy seems to us from all points of view. It is true, here it has been said – I will not waste any more time – that moving from the concept of residue to resource is an advance, but it is not an advance of the ecologists. The People's Party government – the People's Party government – has already regulated and legislated on a circular economy long before you discovered it. [[remorse of the voice]] That's why – that's why, that's why – don't be surprised, that we're going to back you up. I say that because here the mantras are said, and, in the end, the problem is that the people in good faith who are listening to us believe it. Well, no, Mr. Vidal, it's not like that. Look, I'm scourged – self-criticism –: then I blame the mea when I recognize that the wording of the law is clearly better, and with all due respect to its principal authors, because the laws, my lords, we should elaborate those so that people could read them and understand them with some ease, not to put them in a drawer or to satisfy the personal ego of those who see that "that article I did, because there are some articles that..., better not to recognize the paternity or motherhood of them. But, well, in any case, I don't think it has been achieved, and hence some frustration with the work that has been done, which has also been made difficult – Mr Casals, I look at him and smile at him – because of the excessive haste and the accelerated handling of appearances, which have prevented us from knowing in more detail the needs of all the sectors affected and also of consumers and users... : we have not had time, yes, but not because of the opposition, but because of the haste of the Government and the group that supports him. And for a show, a button: if you look – you can do it through the Parliament Channel, and I too play, as I say, the mea guilt – last Thursday's Commission of Enterprise, really that this commission and the Marx brothers' cabin..., identical, because it was a genuine disguised one. And I'm included, huh? I include myself, because I recognize... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Well, yes, of course, Mr. Orobig, but why? Because of your group, because [[remorse of the voice]] ...of course, of course, because of your group. If they had been more cautious, we could have put the matter back on track, and therefore had a more calm debate, and they did not want to do so. And I had a really bad time, huh? – I had a very bad time – and you know it. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I'm quiet – I'm quiet. In any case, this circumstance – and I am going to run out of time, in so much detail – will imply our abstention or refusal to support certain particularly significant and controversial articles of the text. When it comes to the tasting area – colloquial expression – we are going to profile ourselves, because we don't like anything; therefore, we are going to abstain. It's not a definitely consensual article. It was very difficult to achieve it; the hurry, perhaps, has prevented it, ultimately. With regard to Article 29(2) on conditions for the sale of products or offers of services at home, we will also vote against. I mean another important issue: the discounts don't come back. Discounts don't come back, in purity. The department recommends the season, but it doesn't impose it. So let us stick to the reality of what I believe I have finally signed. With regard to the amendments that we keep alive, number 32 – very important to us – "commercial activity cannot be favoured or conditioned according to the official language of which it is used, it is an irrefutable political position for the People's Party", because it is the most respectful of freedom in general and freedom of expression in particular. That is why we propose the deletion of the text that requires such reciprocity in the use of the language, because otherwise we will also hinder labour mobility in the sector towards citizens from other autonomous communities. The wording of the precept concerned – Article 8 – is certainly sible, but it does not cease to be restrictive of the unconditional right to be able to use Spanish as an official language of the State in Catalonia. In this case, there is a transaction with Citizens which concerns Article 15, in particular the need to continue to defend the validity of Amendments 59 and 61 as regards the conditions of work at the dismountable stops which the marchers must make, and also as regards Article 94 and 98, which relate to Article 29, to which I referred earlier. We therefore maintain 110, 113 and 122 as regards compliance with the basic legislation of the State, and at the same time we want, as I say, to denounce the lack..., the government's null negotiating capacity. Ultimately, we also keep alive Amendment 182, which affects the amount of sanctions provided for in the sanctioning regime, which we believe must be more proportionate, and which are not so in the wording of the text submitted for consideration by the plenary. Moreover, as far as the text of the opinion is concerned, as I say, we will support it, but it does not spare me that this support is made from the absolute conviction that, out of responsibility, we support it, but it is not the law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.88.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.89.0	... – I finish, President – but it is not the law that deserves the trade sector or the citizenship of Catalonia. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.90.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.91.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, members of the sector, deputies, deputies... We, in the processing of this law, the conclusion we have come to is that this catal model of trade from which, therefore, many fans or fem flag and which today has also received allowances for many of the deputies – and the same advisor – that have preceded me, is not what it seems. We have not given this model the necessary force to impose itself on the fundamental dynamics of the global economy, on the dynamics of capitalism. We have not been able to do this at the social level, neither the associations nor the unions, nor have we been able to do this part of the law for which it has been said, because it has been avoided entering the Law of Commercial Equipment, which is so or more important than this in defining the country's commercial model. And I start with this introduction, not to bring the debate to an abstract and purely ideological land, but the very objects that bring back the law in the presentation of reasons are these, which, unfortunately, we cannot be effective with the articulation. The first paragraph of the Motius presentation begins, therefore, by saying that the development of towns and cities has largely been completed in a compact, socially cohesive way, favouring self-sufficiency and avoiding unnecessary displacement, and it is about sustainable urban management, and the same advisor has also served these words. Can we give compliments to these objects, with what is in the joint? We in the debate on totality have already set the example, for example, of Salt's Ikea; it is to say, today all of us defend ourselves in praise before the Catalan model of trade and the protection of the urban plot, etcetera, see Salt and..., captivated red, and the CUP stands alone defending the no, precisely in defence of the small trade and this urban articulation and this cohesion. There are more examples of respect. Last week, for example, it was the traders in Igalada who gave the alert that a commercial surface already wanted to install there – in concrete terms, it was a Bonpreu – and that the assembly, therefore, seemed to have left for this surface, and that this would affect local trade. Another example of contradiction, for example, is what we will most likely have in brief with the expansion that is to be made from Montmeló, where we want to take advantage of the spin that the circuit has to expand a commercial area. And it will be said, therefore, that this is to redistribute what tourism brings territorially, that this is decongested Barcelona, etc. Who will reap the benefits of this commercial area when they settle in Montmeló, which will say this, what is it used to redistribute? The business groups that have been set up will not be able to carry out the local small business of Montmeló or the Eastern Valley. Any other background issues that haven't been touched? So, real estate speculation as a problem for commercial weaving in urban centers, right? It hasn't been 15 days since a news report that can be very anecdotal, but it's significant. A video club – which is a few minutes away, but this one had taken very good care of his video library and was a place of worship for the amateur people – which paid 1,800_euros to visit Ciutat Vella; buys the premises a speculator that will reschedule, and has already said so, for 4,500_euros a month at a restaurant. Another restaurant in Ciutat Vella, which is a trade, obviously, much more focused on tourism than not..., was a video club that made cinemas, etcetera, that created, so we say that we like to believe tourism, and real estate speculation is one of the enemies of this small trade. These are business model background issues, and we don't answer them. And we need to know that. Yes, there are aspects of the law that contain advents: the principles of the circular economy have been introduced, as has been said, in part thanks to the CUP and Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, in an unconscious way influenced by this predecessor, the People's Party. [[remorse of the voice]] , which seems to have put the circular economy on the political agenda; a new chapter has been added to the first title on the profit of surplus food, and this is also a small step forward; a way of resolving the dispute over tasting has been proposed, which, in our view, has been lacking in respect – the resolution is not very satisfactory mainly from the point of view of the workers, but we have always thought that not regulating it and leaving it at the hands of the municipality was simply passing this conflict on to another scale and it was to abstain from the responsibility that we had. Also the limitation of home sales is correct, this list that will be approved from Article 29, and the most clear advance is the relation to the closing time, to which I will refer more closely. On the other hand, the insufficient aspects for the object of this law: the first, the regulation of touristic municipalities. The criteria for becoming a tourist town have been until the day of today a «college to liberalize the timetables, so that this one tries to order it, it is true. But a lot of people – certainly from the deputies present and those who are listening to me, perhaps – will not know that Palau-solitude and Plegamans is a tourist town with seven beds of hotel, and that it has this category, right? Like the Rock of the Vallès, and we know why the tea, the Rock of the Vallès. Now it's a rule, and it's a gift to the municipality that they've been getting four years before to adapt – we've still been in favour of sneaking up on this term – but some aspects of this article about tourist municipalities continue to have entry doors to casuistics that, from the touristic point of view, have a little bit – so, since the possibility of voting them separately, we'll vote against them. One of these cases – it has been mentioned before, for Catalonia Yes, it is Pot – is the one that promotes shopping tourism. It's true – up to 1 million foreign visitors – that's the way the model works, but we're against it. Then, one day, we'll make a tourism law and in the motius exhibition, so we'll also make the usual lyric of the motius exhibition and say that tourism is culture, that it's interchant, that it's the discovery of the other, etcetera. Well, that's it, and that's that, if you reps 1_million people come by bus to buy international brands that also find them in their countries but at a higher economic price..., that's also tourism; that's what this article marks. And the great contradiction of the touristic municipality is that the most touristic municipality, which is Barcelona, can never ask for this category, because then the model would jump through the air, right? We're doing such an exceptional thing to do some liberalizing drills that if you really decided one day to join us, the model would jump into the air. Marx explained that capital, when it finds limits, strives to turn them into barriers to, all the time, jump them. This is actually a quote from Marx, but who took her to committee was Deputy Vidal, and it's quite suggestive, because it makes us think about what the catal model of trade really is. They are these limits: the Catalan model of trade are these limits, which, from the social and political spheres, we lay down to liberal capitalism to protect the small front of the great, to defend the rights of the workers and to maintain an urban model like that contained in the expression of motius. Are we sleeping there, for that reason, with this law? For us there are still many liberalizing holes in this model, which have been introduced for local business group lobbying or for lobbying, but then we have to take into account that the great obstacle to building a Catalan model of trade is the Spanish State. For us to defend this Catalan model of trade is impossible without a Catalan republic. If we say that capital converts limits into barriers to, all the time, jump them, at first and won't warm it, because it will have an important ally. The State will travel and probably suspend the aspects that this law establishes as the protection of the Catalan trading model: being able to open up to 90 weekly hours, being able to open up to 12 annual feasts, and the three-hundred_metre_surface squares for those establishments that are subject to exceptions, some measures that favor large areas because small trade or otherwise cannot pay a sum or will carry it to the self-exploitation of the owners. Let me make a parentheses here, because it seems that we have to thank the People's Party for not carrying this law to the Guarantee Board, as if the normal one here was that all the laws were annexed directly to the censorship, to the censorship of the State. I believe that we are losing, already, with this offensive of the State, the measure and the perspective, and soon it will be asked that these people who are passing through the commissioner of the Civil Guard – heads of the national pact or heads of the government –..., it will be asked that we are grateful that it is not torturing these people as it is before, that we have only molested them by questioning them. I believe that we are already losing the measure of things, that we ask on behalf of the People's Party that we thank you that you do not bring this law to the Council of Guarantees, when it is sure that you will bring it, the Government of the State, directly to the Constitutional Court. What establishes our law is also conflict in other aspects. Even all the little adventure there is in the line of the hourly reform we've had to run the whole clock as if to avoid this unconstitutionality. To get the new ones closed during the eight months that are not you, we had to move the opening to the six in the morning. We recognize it as an adventure, and we'll make it easy for it to approve, but as well, we've kept our agenda, because we're defending that it would be good to lock two-quarters back in the year. The reductions must also be drawn with a wording such as that in Article 21. We cannot say that it is two periods, as the sector or the majority of parliamentary groups claimed; we must say that the General Council's Adviser to Trade Matters has to recommend the dates of initiation and completion of the next year's periods, because the state law liberalizes the reductions, and therefore does not want to conflict with this aspect of the legal order. We should think of all the groups, not just the independenceists, that this Parliament cannot legislate freely to respond to the demands of the trade unions – which are not independent – of the associations of traders – which are not independentists, of groups of all colors, or even all the demands that the same groups of this chamber have gathered – which are not independentists either – and, on the other hand, we cannot legislate freely on these aspects to give response to what we believe to be the majority in our society. Finally, for what he does at the most weekly hours, he moved to seventy-five. We don't understand very well why, and we keep the thought that is kept in seventy-two hours, because they are already a maximum, in our view, and this half-hour of more than every day is likely to cover with foreign hours not remunerated by the workers of the trade. What will happen, then, when he suspends? In our view, we must defend all political and trade union forces and associationism, and maintain the model appropriate, hold this commitment to defend what we approve today, especially in these conflicting matters regarding timetables and holidays that affect the rights of trade workers. In the Basque Country, for example, the law also marks that it cannot open any party, not that it can open eight or six, as we proposed. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, And it also conflicts with state legislation, but there has been enough social and trade union strength there, especially because it is not due to term, because no one can join this state law to open the festivities and thus effectively harm the rights of the workers. Because all the facilities, everything we understand for one band as consumer facilities... we have to think that, for the other band, they are people who are working and that they are their hours of work. But the debate about timetables or festivals is not just about keeping it from the perspective of the workers: we also need to keep it as a social model. What do we want to be doing as a society, basically, the disbands and the diumenges? Do we need to fill our time free with a commercial offer? In short, and finally, we in the debate on totality pointed out that we were primarily concerned with three aspects of this law: the rights of trade workers, the rights of consumers and the protection of small trade. In the right of the workers progress very little: the one that is won with this advance of the closing time is lost for the other band with the seventy-five hours that will most likely be approved. In consumer rights there is Article 29 and some others, but little progress is being made. And in the protection of small trade, too, because, as I have already started explaining, the problems are structural; it would also be hot to touch the Law of Commercial Equipment and to reach great strategic agreements that defend, once and for all, this model that needs this protection against the dynamics of foundations that favor the model of commercial centers, the desertion of many small municipalities and the crisis of small trade in urban centers. Therefore, from the CUP Group - Creed Constituent, in those aspects that do not have an explicit recovery, as I did at the presentation, we will abstain. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.92.0	Thank you, Mr. Botran. Then has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, Mr. Joan Ramon Casals.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.93.0	Well, thank you so much again. And now, to end – let's be late, huh? And, therefore, as much as I have many things to say... – first, I continue – because I believe that it is also to be said – with the internal thanks of the group – I am now speaking strictly as a group of Joints for the Yes – and here I have been very, very accompanied, and I have to thank very much the work of the spokesman of the committee, of the Jordi Munell, also of the joint spokesman, which is the Jordi Orobitg, and especially of Fabian Mohedano, at a point..., well, at many points, but at a concrete point that I will explain with a little more detail. But also, in this case – I said earlier – to the Director General, Montse Vilalta, because, I won't say who said it, but even a lot of money, say, in a positive, very positive way, she said..., she participated in a lot of negotiations, very directly, making a lot of effort, and someone said, "That's not usual, and it's very good, huh? One of the settlers, when we negotiated with him, said so. Therefore, I would like to thank Montse, also the Director General, for this dedication. In any case, we are convinced that it is a law, which we will approve, good; a good law for a transcendent sector because our country also remains as it is, both in the competitive or economic sphere as well as from a point of view of identity and coexistence in the day to day of the streets and places. And I can say it like the mayor; it's like, I'm lucky to be mayor of one of the cities..., well, of the city that has reduced the last few years and the third least of all Catalonia – at these times we've downed, at last, the last month, the 9_per_cent of the time. The sector that gives the most work to my village is trade – we also have here the Jordi, which I can say –; therefore, it is transcendent, trade, also, to improve our quality of life from day to day. But not only for the strict production of the places of work, but also because the trade is the one that gives out much of the production of the enterprises of our country. They are the ones who distribute the products produced by our producers and also by our farmers – which we are talking about yesterday, precisely, at the heart of... Who promotes the agricultural proximity product more? The proximity trade of our country. Which model is what we have and has always worked in our country? That contractor's or that contractor's putting his botiga and pulling it forward, this model of proximity, which has connected centers and vile places with a special life. We're a country of peppers and we're a country of bottlers and bottlers, and we have to say it with pride. We have always maintained a model that has been called protectionist; it is true that we do not have to store ourselves and we do not store ourselves. And this law is trying to be, and it is, protectionist: it is trying to be discriminatory in a positive way with those elements that have more difficulties or are more vulnerable at these times, precisely, or by laws that make the State... Let's be honest, said the same main representative of the branch, could we say, eh? , of the government, that they are liberal, and, in any case, we are not, in this environment. And that's why we have this positive discrimination in which we understand that, with the new global economy and with these liberal misconceptions that they try to do about the sector..., they pose it precisely in peril. And that's what he's trying to do. And we believe that both the initial proposal of the government, thanks to the work that has been done for many years, also, together with the sector..., will just try to pull it forward. But also because it does the character of our towns and cities: our towns and cities and barrels are not the same without the trade we have, if not the tinguesem. And there are countries that have also had this pattern, and it is known; and there are countries that unfortunately have and have destroyed it, and it is known. We're lucky to be able to keep it. Let's get it all done. I can be happy that, apart from a few small differences... it is true that there are two parliamentary groups that are longer away, but what can be seen is that there is a majority that at all events is very clear – and that is to be welcomed, and we have this calmness –... that you believe – and it has now been demonstrated with these interventions – in this model and in this protection of the proximity model. So, in any case, always with the best that I'm sure we can do... in any case, we'll have this big consensus. There are some things that have been said that they could have done better, if we hadn't, in any case, been in such a hurry. Look, I also have a way of thinking – you can have it, I'm saying it now, in secret, right? – a way of being..., that is to make decisions, too, if it is to move forward. And sometimes you can, in some way, make a mistake or you may have stopped doing it better, but in any case, people's punches... I also think that if... but, in any case, try it, and, if you're wrong, admit the error and change it again. Because we are also after – and they have explained it many times, during the processing of this law – that, sometimes, if there is one thing in which you are mistaken, the change and the better. And that's all, the important thing is to make the effort to be able to pull forward. And here it has also been noticed, that, because what we have to do is to throw in front of a law of trade that is necessary, in any case, with the will to improve, and there are important better ones. And if any small thing we can improve, we won't: we will do it, if it actually proves that... I am convinced that there will be few, but in any case, there is not the will that, if anything is possible to improve, it is not done in its moment, and there are many mechanisms to do it. There are aspects, some... For example, the P.P. puter commented on the subject of the Marxists, who they thought would have needed more time. That's to say, exactly what you're asking for... perfectly, it's a regulatory issue, and, therefore, it can be improved through the commission or with a petition to the government, it doesn't necessarily have to be done for the law. Therefore, not everyone's proposal was to do it through this law, but there are other mechanisms to be able to do it. In short, in any case, speaking also of some of the aspects that the other parties have said, I will refer especially to the final and initial part of the intervention of the CUP for, also, explaining a mike the model of the Albert. We share this protection of proximity trade, but they say that some of the aspects have to do with... more structural, and that sometimes they have changed. In any case, we are talking about a point, precisely, which is not spoken in the law, which is that of commercial equipment, which comes out of the regulation of commercial equipment in this country to protect our trade. That there have sometimes been punctual changes? In any case, however, as in touristic municipalities, there can be no change in the area of commercial equipment or in touristic municipalities that does not come from the will of the municipalities. It's never been necessary for a while, because all that's been done is because the municipality... if there's not the initial vow approved for full, for the most part, in all these areas, in one joint, it can't be done. So, if there's been a change in respect, or someone has asked to be a tourist town hall, and someone thinks they don't... in any case, they have autonomy, and whoever started it is the assembly. Therefore, let's also talk about it: the model is not the only one of the Catalonian and the only one of the law, it is a shared model between administrations and those responsible. Therefore, we have done it among all, we remain absolutely conscious. It does not determine, this law, absolutely what will happen in each of the municipalities that can be touristic; it explains that it can not be, and in any case it will determine each of the municipalities. That we also believe, in this municipal autonomy, in a _marc, we say, that I maintained a balance with some rules of play that everyone has to comply with, which is precisely that of commercial equipment and this law, but, we repeat, with this municipal autonomy. The same, with the times. And now I will mention it, and I will especially appreciate the efforts and courage of the Socialist Group, of Alicia Romero, but also especially of Fabian, and also, here, the understanding of the Government, eh? Because, in the end, it has been a balance – let's be clear – that everyone on the board sees well, but it's one of the changes I think is more important than there is in this law in the line of the hourly conciliation. For some of us, and for some of us, he may have tasted a little bit, but it's an adventure. And surely it is the first advent after the pact that was made of the hourly reform just last week, the first advent that has, indeed, passed through legislation, that is that for eight months the year we advance the closing of the business schedule, and we move from the gods to the new ones, and this means that the workers and workers will also be able to arrive an hour before home. That some of you would've liked it if it was half an hour longer? ...We value this great, first, legislative adventure, which is done in the hourly conciliation. And, like I said, if it's a very important first step and, besides, it works, if you believe it, you can keep going on about it. And here too I appreciate, say... as the counselor also explained, there was a very important dialog of a bet that defends, also through statements, huh? ... which makes the Parliamentary Group especially of the PSC, but which defends the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, especially the Fabian Mohedano, and I think we have reached a point that I think can be very positive, and we are some of those who are most pleased with this law. And respect the seventy-five hours, or the seventy-two hours, or the ninety-two hours, or the ninety-two hours, our position is very clear. There are two issues. He was talking about bravery in the Basque Country, let's explain. In any case, the seventy-five are also a department's courage, which is true that he has reached a consensus, because this, whatever happens, so much that they threaten, say, with feelings, huh? , that we consider unfair and that they are against the new competitions, yes, the sector, whatever happens, says what the law says, is willing to keep these seventy-five hours. So, on the line of the effort we make with the country. But at the same time, no matter what, the important adventure is that the seventy-five, the norm or the remaining ones are to be completed within this time frame, in which for eight months the shutdown is one hour ahead, and therefore it has to be the new ones. Therefore, we see at this point the gout very full and really with a great advance. I think it's one of the things we need to be able to value. Other things I mean, I think they've been out too, and I think it's good that we stand out. I also believe that there are many better things to do – and here I am grateful for all the contributions that the groups have made – in the promotion policies on the part of the Government of the Generality in the field of trade, because precisely I believe that, with all that we have been doing better, we will actually succeed in strengthening this proximity trade and the small trade of our country, huh? And there is also a lot of importance in the field of digitization. The other great courage that I believe we have had – and here we have also had, we could say, many different pressures or visions, and sometimes even in the realm of regulation, that we may sometimes do something about whether we really want to do it or not – is that direct sales, which is also a sector that gives a lot of jobs – and I also appreciate the presence of one of its representatives here –..., we want them to be able to do it, but we also understand that there must be a point of consumer protection and that there can be legally and publicly established a Robinson list, as they are more popularly known, that is that the people I do not want to do it, perfectly can not do it. And, here, thank you very much for the courage and the good work of Marc Vidal and Catalonia. Yes, I can just find, I think, an article that I think we didn't get wrong, but anyway, if we did, we could get better too, but it's also a first step to our country in something that any citizen... and sometimes we talked about, huh? We did the proof with deputies from all the different groups, not to mention where the papers were coming from or where they were coming from, and almost everyone, and even if you asked outside the Parliament..., everyone said that it was something that you could do, that if you didn't want to be tricked into coming to you with a product or offering you a service, then you could say that you didn't want to be tricked from a point of view..., pointed at in a public list. One thing that the people, the city, the citizen, the Catalans and the Catalans of the street, see clearly, we managed to put it in a law, that you don't think it was easy, this point, you don't think it was easy people. So I think we're just happy with this advance. I personally am also very happy – helped by many, precisely – with the capacity increase that we will have together in a few commercial points of view, especially in which are establishments of less than one hundred_five_metres_square. That we've added protection and greater ability of the joints to try to model it, because when we talk about trade and time, it's true that there is a series of establishments, of certain meters, that they can or do have a level, so to speak, of liberalization, we could say, very high, in this case. And, therefore, I think we've introduced materials that will allow the joints, at these points, say, add our model, and I think it's correct. And in the field of the Internet we would have liked to be able to get a lot longer, but it's also a very complicated, very complicated environment, and the ability to regulate... sometimes it's difficult, how it can go. But we have, in any case, introduced things – I think it's been explained – what we're trying to be up to or around, huh? , as if the assemblies could facilitate spaces to make this regulation, but also that the assemblies could regulate the distribution, because it will end up being one of the problems that we find ourselves or that we are already beginning to find the assemblies at these times. And we can also charge it, which also, depending on how this whole sector moves forward, apart from being a resort for gatherings, which is always good..., it can also be a way of trying to rationalize what can be converted, if we do not control it, into an aspect that affects mobility and also the coexistence of our municipalities and cities. I could go on with more... because I really think there are a lot of things going on, but I think it's time to go through with it, that we can vote and have the law passed. Yes... only one last aspect, which is also important to me, in the end: what is he trying to do, this law? And, taking advantage of the fact that Mr. Lluís Llach is here, he's referring to... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, now he's gonna be surprised, but in any case, I always..., he knows..., well, I think many, but in any case... He has a song that describes our country very well, that's" Small country, isn't it? And he says it's a country to bell, where every bell can see the other bell, right? But, in the end, around this bell, every one of our cities is always there or a market or there is a shop or there is a trade that makes the people who go to that bell, to that church, can distribute, and there is also always a store that lifts the blind every day. I hope with this law – which is what I have been taught – what I hope and what I hope is the objective, and I am sure it will be so – is that we will help a little bit of this store that is next to this bell of this small country, which is like us, which is easier or which I can keep for many years to raise the blind every day, which is the object of this law. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.94.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Couples. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Pause.]] Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.95.0	Yes, Madam President. For contradictions with regard to the intervention of the Member of the CUP.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.96.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.97.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Botran, without your acrid – check what I'm saying, I'm telling you in a good way, so you can understand me –..., I think you mix barbecues with merinas, because check that when you do all this, finally, description of what is happening in Catalonia, you forget that in Spain and Catalonia democratic justice acts, and if a judge decides to open an investigation, the Civil Guard complies with what the judges tell you. Therefore – therefore – truly embrace democracy once and for all [[remorse of the voice]] – hug at once [[strong remorse of the eyes]] ...let me finish, please. They embrace democracy once and for all and do not do what they usually do, which is to threaten, which is to rape. And his bench companion did it yesterday and no one said anything: he threatened here all those of us who didn't think like her with little less than meeting us on the street. That sounds abhorrent to me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.98.0	Mr. Santamaría...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.99.0	...and you, of that, say absolutely nothing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.100.0	This is no longer contradictory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.101.0	Condemn violence – Condemn violence – and, above all, do not threaten...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.102.0	Mr. Santamaría...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.103.0	... with practicing there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.104.0	...that's no longer contradictory, you don't have to deal with it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.105.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.106.0	Mr. Botran, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.107.0	Out of contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.108.0	Thirty seconds, Mr. Botran.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.109.0	Mr. Santamaría, the same High Court of Justice of Catalonia has made it clear that it instructed against these persons who are declaring in the Civil Guard not to leave them; it departs..., this court..., departs from the Civil Guard. Therefore, we are ahead of a clear [[applause]] ...,we are ahead of a clear case of trying to intimidate people compromised with the right to vote. And we'd all have to ask why we're not blocking these people's access to the Civil Guard commissioner. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.110.0	We shall proceed to vote in the first place [[remorse of the voice]] ... Please proceed to vote in the first place on the compromise items, and then vote on the reserved items of the parliamentary groups. Before we begin, I am sure that the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group withdraws item 202, the Popular Unity Parliamentary Group - Crida Constituent withdraws item 139, and the People's Party of Catalonia Parliamentary Group withdraws item 40. Any other groups want to pull out an item? [[Pause.]] So, we'll start the vote. We vote on the transaction at item number 42, which affects Article 11 and the second transitional arrangement. The vote begins. The deal was approved by 77 votes to 35, with 19 abstentions. We shall then vote on the compromise at points 51 and 59, which affect Article 15. The vote begins. The deal was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. We vote for transaction number 106, which affects section 36.2.a. The vote begins. The deal was approved by 77 votes to 11, with 43 abstentions. We vote for the transaction at items 190 and 191, which affects the third additional provision. The vote begins. The deal was approved by 87 votes in favour, against and 44 abstentions. We shall then vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. We're voting for the number 12. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. Then we vote on the 21st. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Then we vote on the item number 36. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. We then vote on items 24, 25, 26, 34, 35, 37, 63, 101, 103, 187 and 198. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. Let's vote on items 185 and 186. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 89, with 16 abstentions. Let's vote on the papers, then, numbers 38, 39, 48, 71, 74, 75, 84, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 100, 102, 118, 129 and 184. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Let us now proceed to the vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's statements. We vote for Emena number 18. The vote begins. The item was approved by 70 votes to 61, with no abstentions. We now vote on items 19, 20 and 45. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 59 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on items 56 and 60. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 34 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Let us now proceed to vote on items 109, 114 and 127. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. We're voting for Emen number 14. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes to 88, with 33 abstentions. Let's go now and vote for Emena number 17. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 59 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote for the 41st. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes to 88, with 33 abstentions. We now vote on items 22, 108 and 126. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. We're voting now for Emen number 105. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 18 votes to 72, with 41 abstentions. We're voting now for Emen number 134. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 43 votes in favour, 88 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We're voting now for Emena number 32. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 120 against and no abstentions. Let us now vote on items 94, 98, 113 and 182. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 36 votes in favour, 95 against and no abstentions. We now vote on the 110 and 122 items. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 11 votes to 95, with 25 abstentions. Let's now vote on the reserved items of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. Vote 23 and 111. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 34 votes to 72, with 25 abstentions. We're voting now for Emen number 86. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote for Emena 107. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 18 votes to 72, with 41 abstentions. We now vote on items 112, 123 and 125. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 18 votes in favour, 112 against and 1 abstention. Let's go now and vote for the 136th Emena. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 43 votes in favour, 88 against and no abstentions. Let's go now and vote for Emena 220. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 34 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. Let's now vote on the reserved Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. We're voting for Emen number 226. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 97 votes to one, with 33 abstentions. We shall now proceed to the vote on the technical issues in Rules 25.3.a, 30 and 30.6. The vote's on. The technical papers were approved by 106 votes in favour, against and 25 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the technical papers. The vote begins. The technical papers were approved by 129 votes to one, with one abstention. Let us now proceed to the vote on the text of the opinion on the draft law. We voted separately from Rule 8(2) of the opinion. The vote begins. The apartment was approved by 120 votes in favour, 11 against and no abstentions. A separate vote is taken on Rule 8(3) of the opinion. The vote begins. The party was approved by 95 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote on Article 9 of the opinion. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 87 votes to 36, with 8 abstentions. We now vote separately on Article 16, paragraphs 3 and 5, Article 14, paragraph 3, of the first final provision and of the first additional provision of the opinion. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 105 votes to 25 with 25 abstentions. We shall then vote on Article 21 of the opinion. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 98 votes to 33. We now vote on Article 29(1) of the opinion. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 98 votes to 25, with 8 abstentions. We now vote on Article 29(2) of the opinion. The vote begins. The article was approved by 95 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote on paragraph 2 of Article 30. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 95 votes to 25, with 11 abstentions. We now vote on Rule 36(2)(b) of the opinion. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 61 votes to 29, with 41 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of Rule 36. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 87 votes to 19, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on the letter k of Article 37 (1). The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 87 votes to 19, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on Rule 37.2. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 89 votes to 9, with 33 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of Rule 37. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 88 votes to 13, with 30 abstentions. We now vote on Rule 38b, third paragraph, of the opinion. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 88 votes to 18, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of Rule 38. The vote begins. The rule was adopted by 98 votes to 33. We now vote on Rule 75 of the opinion. The vote begins. The article was approved by 95 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote on the first transitional arrangement. The vote begins. The provision was adopted by 98 votes to 8, with 25 abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Trade Bill, Services and Fires Project was approved by 123 votes in favour, against and 8 abstentions. [[Perlongats applause.]] Thank you all very much. And the session is suspected up to three-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.111.0	It's part of the session. Very late in the day, all of them. [[Report of the Commission for the Study of Industrial Policies in the Automotive Sector]] [[260-00003/11]] The next item is the debate on the report of the Commission for the Study of Industrial Policies in the Automotive Sector. In accordance with Rule 65.3 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, this study committee adopted a report and conclusions which were published in the Official Butlletí of the Parliament of Catalonia on 25 July. We shall then proceed to the intervention of the parliamentary groups to position ourselves on the report and conclusions for a maximum of three minutes. In the first place, has the word Lord Alfonso Sánchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.112.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, on 28 January 2016 we constituted the Commission for the Study of Industrial Policies in the Automotive Sector, although it is easier by its acronym CEPISA. The automotive sector could have been dealt with within the Committee on Enterprise and Knowledge, being one of the areas it covers and in which Ciutadans works intensively, being the parliamentary group that drives the most initiatives. So much so that Ciutadans pushed for a motion for a resolution to set up a specific working group with representatives of companies in the automotive sector, but we saw with even better eyes a committee of study proposed by the PSC, so we withdrew our proposal and bet on setting up a committee of study. After a year and a half, we came to the end of this committee with a good taste of mouth and lighting up the needs of the automotive sector and the challenges of the future. I would like to thank the various political parties who have gathered all the requests of the trade unions, companies and professionals in the sector who have appeared in this Parliament, thus drawing up a report on their situation and which has been approved by all the parliamentary groups. The measures to be taken have been classified under twelve headings according to their nature. Although I will not go into each of them, I would like to point out those which, in our opinion, are the most important and vitally operational as soon as possible in three key points. One: greater investment in R & D+I. We must continue to bet on this, as this also implies an improvement in competitiveness. Two: the work environment. We must improve the working conditions and wages of all professionals, as well as improve continuing training, which will also lead to better qualifications and productivity, and also without forgetting the young people, betting on a dual VET, with this training to enter the world of work. And three: electric vehicles. It is the future and it is the present; we already have it here and we must all go together towards a sustainable, renewable energy transition, where transport is also ecological and non-polluting. Finally, again thank you for the work of all the parties that have made it possible for this to happen. We hope that the report drawn up will be a script from now on; a script on the parliamentary activity needed in relation to the automotive sector. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.113.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. The words of Mr Pol Gibert, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.114.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, all of you. There's not a lot of people, but the subject would be worth it. Today is one of those days that you come to this cliff and you come proud of the work done in a parliamentary committee. A job that we've all done and all folded, and it's been, let's say, very satisfying. A job that, moreover, gives answer to a cabdal sector, such as automotive, for the Catalan economy and for the conjunction of the State. Because when we talk about automotive, we don't talk about an industrial sector alone, we talk about a sector, the third economic sector in Catalonia, we talk about a 7_percent of GDP, we talk about forty_ thousand direct and one hundred_ thousand indirect workers. So we are talking about a very important sector. This committee had a great responsibility if we look at the name of the figures I have just said. While we know that it will certainly not be of great media impact what is happening here today, we know that it is very important for a lot of people. In three minutes it is very difficult to explain conclusions that occupy forty pages, it is practically impossible, but taking into account the objective of the Commission, which was to study the measures that can be promoted to strengthen and enhance the automotive sector, we can say today that we have completed and surpassed this proposal. After listening to crowds of people, trade unions, employers, experts, the Government, and watching the sector visiting businesses firsthand as Nissan and SEAT have done, today we propose a battery of proposals for what we deliver to the assembly of Parliament and also to the Government of Catalonia and the State. Proposals in the field of research promotion, business cooperation, better logistics in the energy market, but also proposals in the sense of training and professional qualification and, above all, looking into the more immediate future, imposing intelligent mobility and creating a favourable _framework for the electric vehicle. Proposals and cross-cutting measures to help us cope with the challenge facing the automotive sector and, most importantly, proposals that the same automotive sector has brought to this committee and which are now reflected in these conclusions. But I would like to mention a cross-cutting idea that has been flying over the work of the committee and that has finally become the backbone of the final document, and that is that it is a determined and stable industrial policy. Catalonia has overcome the crisis by keeping as the automotive industry refers to Spain and Europe, but it must avoid moments of uncertainty that the sector has experienced and overcome pending challenges, such as the digitalisation of the sector. We have been able to agree all the groups of the parliamentary arch on conclusions that pointed to the present and future of a vital industry for our country and to put it in value. And besides, also, today I thank some people for their work. First, spokespersons and members of the committee, as they cannot be otherwise, letters and managers, who have done a great job. And, like, a special thank you to your president; it's hard for me to do it, but it's a waste to do it. Emulating the role of automotive in the joint venture of the industry, the president has acted as a tractor to push forward the work that has led us here. So good work for everyone and now we have to be careful to make his compliment possible.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.115.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gibert. The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.116.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it seems obvious that this point is doomed to go unnoticed, especially between so much transcendent debate and so much historical moment, dealing with something of as little significance as the industrial activity of the automotive sector... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I was talking about the climate change right now. [[Pause.]] Thank you. That's why I want to value the work done, which explains for itself. I said when, with Eva Granados, we presented the proposal to create this commission. We're ahead of a key sector. But there are not only two big builders, but many suppliers that occupy a very large volume, forty-thousand, but even more so the impact it has on the whole of the Catalan economy. In the past years, Catalonia, in a context in Spain, we have managed to position ourselves as one of the most dynamic countries in the sector, and this is worth highlighting. But this reality is neither immutable nor guaranteed for life. In the next few years – well, in fact the process has already begun – the changes in the sector will be spectacular: in the type of vehicles, in the forms of manufacture, in the type of business activity, from the step of construction – very possibly – to the purely commercial activity of the activity loguer, in the relationship of people with the vehicles. There will be nothing, almost sure, that we know of today. He's in a very deep change process. I can only see the recent announcement to the United Kingdom on the grounds of banning even the progressive use of diesel and petrol vehicles. These changes – a sense that they will not affect us alone, but that they are at the global level, as is the automotive industry – will do, provoke, are already causing a new distribution of cards at the global level of the paper that plays each company, each building group, each country, each economic zone and, in this sense, we have no guarantee and, as has happened many times in the long history, countries that have been successful in a certain aspect, in this case in the automotive sector, they can perfectly see 'engaged'. This is the reason why we should anticipate policies, some of which depend on companies, but others depend on public policies, to support these proposals for change, and that is what we have modestly tried to do in this committee with the input of all our peers. We have presented industrial policies of innovation, also labor, but there are also policies of mobility in the territories, policies of change of energetic model, policies of formation. By the way, this committee only serves to end the misappropriation that we have in Martorell a large training centre dedicated exclusively to the automotive sector that at these times is so underutilized by the lack of coordination in the government and by the lack of business culture of cooperation, I would already feel, and our group, absolutely happy. Well, let's hope that when the history analyses this legislature can highlight, even though it is with a small line, that in its moment the Parliament of Catalonia was able to anticipate some conclusions and that these conclusions were useful to situate the automotive sector of Catalonia with the ability to dispute the new distribution of cards that are being made worldwide. Thank you very much, and I'm sorry if someone felt offended, but, uh? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.117.0	He's run out of time. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.118.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are going in some way to deal with the results, the conclusions of a committee of study, that of automobiles, of vital importance to the productive sector of Catalonia and the rest of Spain, and that leads me to be personally satisfied, and, of course, I believe that I share this feeling with the rest of the members of the committee, but it also leads me to flee from complacency because, in the end, we have lived very hard times, of economic crisis, and precisely the sector that has been sustained, or at least alleviated, or at least helped, and in what way, to bring back that difficult economic situation that has caused so much pain, well, then, the car, I think that stands out with particular significance. We are therefore talking about a sector that is decisive in the Spanish economy and in the Catalan economy, the automotive industry and also helping it, which, as I said, has led the economic recovery with job creation. And, therefore, the conclusions are very correct and we must work as far as possible with all the parliamentary groups, and, of course, from the point of view of social consultation, which must lead us to reach agreements that really turn to better results with the employer and with the trade unions, in order to achieve as far as possible the ambitious objectives, on the other hand, which the committee itself marks. Therefore, in the area of excellence in the training of workers, the improvement of competitiveness, of course in the allocation of budgetary resources for R & D & I, and that is essential. In fact, it should not be, and it is said in the conclusion, but budget availability should not be a condition, because it is precisely a vital, vital factor, the automotive sector, and therefore should not be conditioned on any such contingency. Of the conclusions contained in the report, I will basically dwell on the need for constant improvement in industrial competitiveness, in the improvement of the logistics associated with automotive. Indeed, we need a much more developed infrastructure network and, therefore, the Mediterranean corridor, the priority of the People's Party government, must be a reality as soon as possible, because it will somehow reverse the improvement of the development of the automotive industry throughout Spain. Also, of course, vocational training and qualification. Dual vocational training, we have to work harder, we have to believe it, and we also have the reference, the reference in the rest of Europe, which is precisely noting that dual vocational training is a fantastic tool for young people, of course, to find employment and also to improve their training. And lastly – lastly – I also want to stop at the creation of a favourable framework for the vehicle, it is the future bet for reasons of mobility, for reasons of public health and also for reasons of development of the automotive industry. Nothing more. Thank you so much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.119.0	Thank you, Mr. Santamaría. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.120.0	Well, thank you. We have our correspondents three minutes, although we as a group were not able to participate in the study committee, we have already commented; being a small group sometimes you have to prioritize. I, in particular, agreed with the question of the law of hourly reform, the misguided question of the law of hourly reform; perhaps I should have devoted myself to the study committee, given the end of the hourly reform... But in any case, we were there at the conclusion session. We agree to promote industrial policies, as we said at the time when this study commission was opened; it is more profitable work places; it is better able for the country of economic sovereignty; it is a less dependent economy than those which are highly third-party, and therefore, also in the case of the car, promoting this industrial sector must count on our recovery and the combination of political forces. Yes, in the conclusions we made the small objection as to how the future of the automotive sector related to the electric car is focused, because this we think is happening, a little, a pilot forward, with which we will replace the entire petrol engine fleet with an electric car fleet, and this is a myth that we, whenever we can, contribute to breaking down. This same morning, one of the few items that we voted against the Climate Change Law specifically refers to this, which I promote to promote the sale of the electric car, so, with fiscal facilities, with production aids, etc., does not solve some of the problems, starting with mobility. In the conclusions, some aspect, some aspect of mobility, such as car sharing, etc., is backwards, but it is not about public transport, and what we have are mobility problems. And replacing the entire petrol explosion fleet with electricity, as we say, is impossible. And so this is something that we also have to face; we can't say to Nissan and SEAT: "Go electric and do as much as you can, because at the level of natural resources there's not enough natural resources to do so many electric cars, starting with batteries, and then, what we do is to move the problem of carbon emissions, according to, like, cities, where the cars are running, where electricity would be, if not with net energies, right? But what we'd stop is using gasoline to consume more coal. In any case, I don't want to generate a debate; I should have generated it in the committee, but since we had three minutes, apart from congratulating each other among all the pleas, at least I would have picked up something and explained why we abstained from it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.121.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. [[Some applause.]] Next is the words of Mr Fabian Mohedano, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.122.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies... Joan Ramon Casals, thank you for giving me the word; the spokesman is him, from the committee. If he had spoken, he would have been a little nicer, but the truth is I won't be – I won't be –, I'll be a little harder, and I'd like to put a little bit on the globe, won't I? , of shared satisfaction that this has gone from conya. The Regne Unit's transport department just announced, didn't it? As Deputy Coscubila said, 2040 will be the end of the explosion car and it will be all electric. I would have liked it if tomorrow morning, when we saw, then, the headlines, we brought an idea, didn't we? : The Parliament of Catalonia is of the view that such a day or date must have a result of these dimensions. We wanted to study something very serious, but we walked a little. Perhaps a bit of a permanent lack of compromise; or we went on to make a very powerful initial explosion – visits, appearances – and then disappeared the commission's activity, didn't we? Then, reading the report, there are times when it seems "what about me? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I mean, the unions for one band, the organizations, let's say, the sector, for another, and it doesn't have one anime, one anime that should have this report. In the end, sometimes, then, we fall into the copy-paste, right? For... And that's not what I'm saying to criticize no one but... we're doing it like the whole committee's self-criticism. We would have liked to have two quick conclusions, which we all have in mind, to say: the whole Parliament of Catalonia is going to a place, and that was not possible. We haven't been talking to the legislative committees of Work, Teaching, have we? , of Enterprise, of Knowledge, to see, this report, as it penetrated the other policies. And we lack one thing, which is the dialog with the National Pact for Industry. And here we are now having the pact, so we'll have this opportunity. In the conclusions, the sector is extremely relevant in our economy – we already knew this – we are living a moment of transition – I think the other Members have said this – and, therefore, the decisions that we are taking now are relevant for the future; we must continue to bet on the cluster of automotive as a means of aggregation and the sum of complicity of all the companies involved, and we have a pending assignment, that of formation, and you say the group that supports the government, and so here we have a pending assignment, and therefore the government has to lay down the piles. And, in five places, so, I call the appearance of a great third, maybe, huh? , great builder I just donated to the sector. The intention was good, the initial work pace was pretty catchy, but in the end we got a little bit left, didn't we? , with the will to go out with a much stronger momentum. And, Mrs. Granados, Mr. Coscubiela, who have been the promoters of the commission, if this report was to be a card for a future revolving door, then it won't be a great, let's say, presentation card because you can find work in this sector. Thank you very much, and you're well.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.123.0	Thank you, Mr. Mohedano. After the debate on the report of the Commission for the Study of Industrial Policies, let's go to the next... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Gibert, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.124.0	For allusions by Mr Mohedano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.125.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.126.0	First, tell Deputy Mohedano that everything he said here, that he's fine, I could have told the committee, that he was a member of the committee. He agreed with the conclusion that he agreed, everyone agreed, and now he's telling us here... all right. I can work a little before, during this time, and I'd be inclined to the commission. And, second, tell him that to the Climate Change Law, that you don't know if he read or didn't read, there's a point that says that 2030 there are no explosion vehicles in Catalonia. Therefore, the invitation to read the Climate Change Law will see how it does not happen. And lastly, we would say that if we were to talk about rotating doors... you may not be the best example; therefore, I will not say much more. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.127.0	The next point... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.128.0	For obvious allusions of Mr. Mohedano.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.129.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.130.0	Yes, very short. The truth is that I don't deserve it because... I don't know, if I've seen Mr. Mohedano at the committee, maybe we could discuss it, but no, don't worry, Fabian, I won't compete with you at the gates; I'm about to retire. I think he betrayed you the subconscious about what to do in parliamentary activity to win a revolving door. And today you've been portrayed. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.131.0	The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on fiscal policy and data protection presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into tax policy and data protection]] [[302-00177/11]] To expose it has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.132.0	Thank you, Madam President. We are presenting a motion arising from the previous inquiry into fiscal policy, and I will briefly explain what the proposals that Citizens are now voting on in Parliament consist of in broad terms. The first proposal seems to us to be fair. We do not want to continue to be the autonomous community that most burdens low incomes, those people, those taxpayers who earn up to thirty thousand euros, from fourteen to thirty thousand euros. They are the taxpayers who most burden their autonomous government from all over Spain. And we don't want it to stay that way. They are 75_per_cent of Catalans, who earn between fourteen_thousand and thirty_thousand. And what we propose here is precisely to lower the tax rates to these taxpayers who are the ones who mostly support with their taxes, since they are 75_per_cent of the taxpayers..., those who are holding public spending. I would like to remind you that we have already submitted this proposal to you, not exactly the same, but to remove taxes on income of less than EUR 14 thousand per year; we have already asked the People's Party, we demand it, and we have finally achieved that goal in the State Government, which shows what a useful policy is. We want to be useful here, too, in Catalonia, and we also want to remedy that injustice that we are suffering because of our current government, which continues to maintain this tax, the IRPF, the highest of all the autonomous communities, and, moreover, when asked to commit to lower taxes, it does not want to do what our economic adviser does; it does not want to compromise itself at all. Secondly, to participate in those bodies in which the system of financing of the Autonomous Communities is decided. Just leave the chair empty at the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. Today, the government will set a timetable to agree on autonomous financing; today this news has come out: "A committee of experts has drawn up a proposal for autonomous financing. And it turns out that we don't send anyone, no expert, to make his proposal. And now we're leading by what the expert who appointed, they named in Balearics, says. And now Mr. Junqueras is asking for information, to see how, to see what money, what money they want to give us. Well, instead of proposing unrealizable things, like independence, we are going to participate, we are going to participate in the sharing of funding and get a good financing pact that affects, as it is natural, inevitably, the tax burden that citizens have to bear to pay for their services. Thirdly, of the main points of this motion: a report covering the period 2007 to 2017 on the evolution of tax collection in Catalonia with regard to operating costs. And why do we ask for this? Well, then, it seemed to us an unconscious increase by..., multiply by three the budget for the Catalan tax agency, multiply by three the staff of the Catalan tax agency, and that we do not have that data, that evidence of what our effectiveness ratio is compared to other Spanish tax agencies and also from abroad. Therefore, it seems to us a study worthy of doing and then necessary and that would justify these increases in staff and funding that are intended by the present Government and that are not clearly justified. The subject of databases and respect for the data, the personal data of Catalans. Well, we have had the well-founded fear that the data of the Catalans are being used, that they are being made databases, because Mr Vidal told us so and that we have also been told by high officials of the Economics Council, that these databases are being prepared for illegal purposes. That is why we call for control, for prevention, for the Government to be barred from collecting data that cannot be used for legal purposes. Finally, on the relevant issues, the protection of officials who may refuse to disclose the data [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] , to transfer data to those who have access to their posts, so that they are probably used by the Government for absolutely illegal purposes, including the preparation of a census...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.133.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.134.0	...to whom they have no right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.135.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.136.0	That's it, thank you; thank you, President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Then, in order to defend the papers presented, Ms.Alícia Romero, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.138.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President, deputies, deputies. Again, Mr. Carrizosa, you present us with a motion on the obvious. All right, huh? It's okay, because it's true that I can sometimes remind some Members that the law has to be completed and that we have to try not to have criminal conduct, it's true, but at the end of the day, a little bit too tired to end up voting always obvious; it's to say, things that I wouldn't have to remember why they have to be completed and it's our duty, isn't it? So, well, I'm already telling him he's a little bit of a mandra, too, because he ends up with a certain barrier, isn't he? Says: "Motion on fiscal policy. And one would hope, therefore, that we could talk about fiscal policy, about that... a tax policy reform that the government did not want to do, which we have not talked about at other times. And, well, it would have been interesting, surely, therefore, to recover this intense debate and the different models that there is. But, well, it's not that young man either, even if there's an intent, because at the 1st point you're making a proposal to lower the IRPF's autonomous tram, so to speak, to lower them down, and they're staying here. Clearly, we did a little more general discussion on the modification of the IRPF's autonomous network, because, if we talk about it, we are talking about everything, not only about lower yields: we are also talking about higher yields, we are also talking about intermediate yields... We were going to make, in fact, a proposal, the Socialist Group, together with Catalonia Yes, it is possible, to the Law of fiscal and financial measures, that you did not pick us up, and that it seemed to us, therefore, that it was much more global, that it would have allowed it to be much fairer and more equitable and more progressive in relation to what the citizens of Catalonia pay. And, in change, you here go a little 'panyo', I suppose by, too, clear consciousness, right? Because they didn't do it in the state, did they? And so, so, we at this point, like they haven't accepted ours and their model and ours is so different, we'll abstain. In fact, he didn't accept me very well, Mr. Carrizosa, did he? When some groups say that we are so close, therefore, Mr Carrizosa said to me: "We do not share a model. Of course. It's just true. It's that we don't share models in many things, and so they couldn't accept most of my reviews. Even though, as you say, we have tried to make sure that the obviouss are not so and are a little more sophisticated; so, well, in the end, of course, you can't vote against the obviouss. It is true that the young lady has been improved, enough, because she has accepted many of Catalonia's exams Yes, she is. I don't know, Mr. Coscubala, if you share a model or it's that you've done it better than I did and you've been able to seduce him, because this young man really has improved a lot with Mr. Coscubala's ideas and, therefore, we in most places will give him a favorable vote. But I honestly – I don't want to run out of five minutes, because I think it doesn't – it doesn't – for so long. Listen, the government has to comply with the law, the government doesn't have to be criminal, the government doesn't have to use tax data for that for which it has no skills, and we can say it twenty times. But as much as we say it too, I say one thing: I don't know if they'll stop doing it or do it. I hope they do, which is their obligation, but in any case, we're going to approve things that, in the end, they too, often, so they're done with other things. Finally, the motion assumes that it will not be approved, but it is well the intention, Mr Carrizosa, to have the law voted again to complete it. It is a guarantee of democracy and, therefore, it should be remembered in this Parliament. Very nice late.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.139.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.140.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, our position is pretty obvious and predictable. We expressed it in tax terms in the Bill of Presuppositions debate many months ago, and it is based on a clear counterposition to the Ciutadans tax model, and above all on the false premises on which it arises. It is not true that Catalonia is the autonomous community that has a more important fiscal pressure. That said, that doesn't mean anything. But, above all, I don't think the solution is strictly just playing a certain IRPF tram. And I'm afraid some of you will agree with that. This is the reason why we have tabled a proposal which, in short, is to resume what we have tabled with PSC at the time, the debate on tax and alternative measures. In concrete terms, a reform of the IRPF of the Catalan tram that implies a reduction of the types of yields lower than twenty-thousand euros, but, of course, with an increase of yields higher than 53,400 euros. Why? Because the contrary lowering taxes is not improving the living conditions of the people with fewer tickets, because if taxes are lowered, the entrances of the Government of Catalonia are lowered and, then, it is not compensated in any other way, what is done, for sure, is to damage the quality of public services, to create risks of double-paying on issues of sanitation or dependence or, quite simply, to leave the people on waiting lists. Therefore, this fallacy that lowering taxes on certain sectors of society benefits them is a falsehood, because it only provides for the share of tickets, and not the share of expenses. In this sense, we have also presented our typical proposals, which, of course, have been... – calm, Alicia – the fundamental part of our research has been absolutely rejected as well as yours. I mean, when he goes to the core of fiscal policy, they tell us no, fortunately for you and me. Otherwise, we'd have to worry. Nor would it be anything foreign, because they share the whole position with Juntes for the Yes, and vote together, and liberal group with Convergence. I mean, things aren't what they look like here, huh? Second question. We thought that an opportunity for this young man was to put a very serious issue, and I am sure that Mr Junqueras will appreciate it, and he will appreciate it, and that is that we have the recent feeling of the Constitutional Court – in our hearing a legal barbarity, as the five dissenting votes of the magistrates are displayed, which is not anything – around the canon on operators, and then it seemed to us that it was a good opportunity for this Parliament to say that the need to reintroduce this canon is to be analysed. And in this sense, I am telling you, Counselor, Vice-President, to count on all our support, because, the truth is that constantly using the market unit to implement a policy that neither eats nor lets eat, nor does taxation or does taxation policy, is barbarity. And in that he knows he'll always have us at his side. Why? Because behind this there is no supposed defence of the equality of Spanish citizens, no – no –: there is a willingness to protect the concrete interests of certain operators. Therefore, please know that you are in favour of a young person who has presented Citizens and, it seems, of the ability we have had to put this topic here, as we must seek. In any case, all our support. Third. The theme that refers to the model of autonomous financing. You see, we have always said this: we believe that it is perfectly possible to be defending independence and not abandoning it, because we cannot play Catalonia's future on one card. Because if independence comes out it will be in another area, but if it doesn't come out we can't allow a tax policy model to be designed and financed – concretely, the financing model – without us having to intervene. Above all, when it is in Catalonia, from time to time, that has been the point of view, both from a scientific point of view – from our experts, from our university – as from a political point of view, to ambitious this model. And that was a brutal mistake of the Government of the Generality, which I hope can be done. Because sooner or later it's going to make a new model of autonomous financing, and here we can't afford the luxury of doing it to us. We must try to influence this feeling. And I hope that one time this proposal has been presented to the experts, which is not that I give a lot of if, frankly, this is my opinion at least with a first reading, that it can enter into a debate with depth on how to modify this system of autonomous financing because it does not end up with a barbarity as big as it is at this time, that it is a transfer of returns that does not benefit the poorest sectors of the population, but serves solely and exclusively to maintain an understanding of false territorial unity. Well, lastly, with regard to the other items, we can't accept them. I don't know, some of us will vote against them; the others, abstention. Of course, it is that he presents himself here with an apartment, with a young man in whom he says, in a few apartments: "We would be against the fact that illegal and prohibited things are done by the Criminal Code, so, yes, but maybe he can't put them here, right? "We will be against the fact that it is called upon you to act incomplicating the law and committing crimes. I think, at all events, it's easy to put things to those you want to fight. And it doesn't alienate me because, in short, sometimes this happens: extremes are needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.141.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.142.0	Thank you, President. Honourable advisors, ladies and gentlemen, to position us in relation to this motion presented by the Ciutadans Group, which, synthetically, addresses three questions. They're not innovative, are they? Then, surely, I will explain what is the most important novelty that I see in this motion of the Ciutadans Group. But the three questions they address are a discussion about the tax model, and obviously, therefore, with Mr. Coscubiela, they can hardly come to an agreement, even if they arrive – even if they arrive. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, on some subject they're coming. I've seen some thread that they've accepted and incorporated into the motion's text. Then they refer to another collateral issue related to the tax model, which is the financing model. That is to say, it is incoherent that we complain that... the government is complaining, we have to impose the highest taxes, and they are the highest of all Spanish communities by their own will, not by any one's demand, there is a recurring complaint that the financing model is insufficient, and then, when it comes to discussing the financing model, they leave the funding model empty, it is not participating, and all that is certain..., I do not know whether it will be approved or not, we will support the participation of all the forums in which the financing models are discussed, so surely the committee of experts has already finished its work and today the Committee on Fiscal Policy and Finance will return these reports from the experts. And a third element, in this case, that is actually completing the laws. Obvious that they are not superheroes; given the circumstances in which we are and the time running and everything that is going on and that we are seeing in this very Parliament, I think it is not superheroes to claim the role of Parliament, which is to say: listen to me, the laws – the laws approved by the parliaments, they all rise in their fair measure of sovereignty that each has – is complete. And that's what it looks like the government doesn't want to do. Therefore, it is an obvious, yes; surely, at these times, surr, no. Where's the novelty in this young man? So, man, surely this young man's novelty is in which the neoliberal group of Parliament presents it. And I don't see it with pejorative feelings, we often tell ourselves, what we're neoliberal about, don't we? But I also understand it in the liberal sense. The Ciutadans group is a group that until four days ago was Social-Democrat and now, over and over, pass a convention that becomes liberal. Therefore, they are the liberals and, therefore, they are the neoliberal group of the Parliament. And as neoliberals have discovered that this tax, so, it's a question, that taxes will be lowered because this way – I don't agree with Mr. Coscubiela, that if taxes are lowered there are fewer taxes – it's possible that taxes will be lowered, because it helps to boost the economy. And we think this is good, this is good. And that's why, when we can, we do it and apply it. Now the Ciutadans Group has discovered this and they come here and tell us: "Listen to me, we have to lower taxes. All right, fine, magnificent. Listen to me, and where were you when we presented a proposal by the law, our parliamentary group, to lower taxes to yields of less than thirty thousand euros, that we are the Catalans, the Spaniards we pay the most? Where were you? They didn't vote for it – they didn't vote for it – and we introduced it... well, maybe you were still social democrats at the time, so maybe I understand. But we introduced it and we discussed it in this Parliament, and you didn't vote for it. We, how can we not change ideology, maintain a certain coherence – for good or for bad, eh? I already recognize them – for good or for bad; that of being coherent sometimes has drawbacks, but what we will do, we like to be coherent; so, we will keep this position that we think it is good that the citizens of Catalonia do not follow, that of making down, precisely, the most abused of all Spain and continue to feel the Spaniards that pay more taxes. And that's why we're giving them support. Now: I think that you have had, in the acceptance and not in this motion, a certain crisis of identity when you have accepted some slogan of the Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. It's to say, for one thing, "Listen to me, we have to lower taxes," and it looks good to us and we support them," and for another, they say, "Listen to me, ah! , and this canon about the Internet connections that the Constitutional Court has cancelled, by the fate of Catalans, that we will not see tax our Internet connections, we look at how to try to recover it. Home, but what are we staying at? Any taxes or taxes? Then in the same point as you say we lower the IRPF, and in the next point you say: "Oh, and we look for the formula to add this new tax again. And in this way we continue to feel the community that has the most tributes close to all of Spain. So, unfortunately, we don't share that. We share absolutely the whole motion, we will give support to the whole motion, except to the point that you have given to Catalonia Yes, it is possible, which calls for the reintroduction of this digital tax, from this tax to the Internet connection that we do not share and, therefore, we will not give support to it. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.143.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.144.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you, President. Well, when two weeks ago there was an inquiry into Ciutadans' tax policy and data protection, it was "ah, look, interesting: we could talk about redistribution of wealth, we could talk about equity... But there's nothing about it. In fact, in the same question, they were already left or had already gone out in this partial analysis, in fact they were gone, and in many things they ended up being fake, again "Calta is the autonomous community that pays the most taxes. Let's take a good look at it, take a good look at the dice and add that it's not that. Because if we want to talk about fiscal policy, we talk about fiscal policy, but we don't just stay in a tax, we tackle fiscal policy. And that's why I said it: we're talking about redistribution of wealth, which is why they should serve taxes, and they don't serve here or Spain or most countries, especially, that follow neoliberal doctrines. Taxes do not end up redistributing wealth, but all the contrary: they end up charging even more popular classes and maintaining the privileges of the elites, which is exactly what you reproduce. Because you, who are spending the day talking about separatists, what you are dedicated to doing is confronting the Catalan popular class with the Spanish popular class instead of playing privileges, here and in the Spanish State. The privileges are the same for everyone and we are going to make a logical part of: no, a little for the popular classes, but those that cover more than still paying the same IRPF that until now, which, proportionally, is not corresponding to the rest. We do not address other taxes that really address the wealth and negative externalities that the wealth has – because yes, it does have negative externalities, especially for those people who see precariousness and in the poor–; it does not touch it, that is. So it's hard enough for us to plant this young man. But when, then, in the background, you read the motion and see the last point, you say: "Ah, all right! ; that the object of all folded, in the background, is the point number 5: "Do not give instructions, recommendations or orders, neither oral nor written, that it is for the purpose that public workers are involved in communication and use of personal data. The monotheme, which you say; which is its monotheme, because in all the motions, we talk about fiscal policy, we talk about what's next, end up appearing this. This ends up in a logic of "a hundred debates in the strict framework of legality. But why don't we know the debates in the narrow marches of the right? Because they never do, that; it's always in the strict mark of legality. This holy legality, untouchable and inviolable. But, in change, the rights are touchable, rapeable. And, therefore, can we learn from this? So no. In fact, my colleague Anna Gabriel said yesterday: we defend the right to self-determination; if in the current law there is, well; if we can modify the existing law, then it will be, and, if not, the laws will overflow; overflow to defend, respect and exercise the basic rights. And here you are systematically dedicated to finding the permanent excuse to use the law and not to respect the rights. And they won't find us in this. And, as always, they'll find us in the front. And, yes, on the street, and it's not a threat, because on the street is where the rights in this country have been conquered all their lives. And that's when we say, "We'll meet on the street. We will find ourselves on the street to win rights, to defend them, to claim them and to continue advancing in the sovereignty and the sobrieties of the Catalan people, but also to defend the rights of the popular classes of this country, which so far have not seen much so often that the Spanish State respects its rights and its dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.145.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words of Ms. Carmina Castellví, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.146.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counselor, good afternoon to everyone. Well, the motion put forward for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group is extremely heterogeneous, as we are already used to, and with the girl papers for parliamentary groups it is still more, which forces us, our group, to explain the position put forward by point. First of all, the demand that the IRPF's autonomous tram is lowered is clearly demagic, as the impact of a reduction of the IRPF to the low trams, with which we might agree, cannot be without fiscal sovereignty. Acceptance of a proposal of this type would have such a negative impact on the recaptancy that, as Mr. Coscubila has said, the balance of assumptions would be shaky. And a lowering of the rate like this would drastically reduce the Generality's admissions, bringing us back to a social retail policy that would particularly affect the popular classes and those that are least and most needed. It is not true that the Generality's action has undermined Catalonia's influence in this body that they call the "polluter pays policy" to the Fiscal and Financial Policy Council. The fact is that all sessions of the council were attended by the Vice-President or some councillor and some member of the Government of Catalonia. So you're lying when you say the generality isn't there. Moreover, as you also know, the regulation that regulates this body makes Catalonia, like any other community, have a purely testimonial paper in the making of decisions, since the state representation always has the majority. When it is proposed to the motion that the tax agency of Catalonia is to be further dimensioned, in reality under this euphemism what it is intended is to reduce the capacity and effectiveness of the tax agency itself, because it seems to someone that bothers him that the generality is endowed with the most modern tools to pursue the tax fraud; it seems that his group would be more comfortable with a tax agency of Catalonia without sufficient human and technological resources to carry out the task entrusted, allowing the impunity of the fraudsters. And for the guarantee of rights that the personal data of the citizens of Catalonia, of which the Generality always uses for legal purposes and purposes, you can be very calm. The data held by the Generality has not been obtained unlawfully or illegitimately, nor is it used unlawfully. Unfortunate statements, which were immediately denied by the Data Protection Agency, cannot be repeatedly and barredly used to try to confuse and alarm public opinion with assurances that they have proved not to be true. And as far as the young lady is concerned, regarding the instructions to the public workers, it should be remembered that the governess already answered you in the oral question in the plenary on 12 July, and I can only repeat the words of the councilwoman, who said: "This is a political process – a political process – that responsibilities, as you know, are political, that the government will not put public workers at risk. And, therefore, escort, this is the answer that we will always give. We have a compromise with the citizenry, yes, because we are going to vote and we are going to ask that we take a referendum, which we can vote on; a response in which 80 per cent of the citizenry of this country believes that the best way to resolve this situation is through the vote, because the strength of the votes is the one that will decide things, the strength of democracy, and the process will be clear, transparent and effective. For all these reasons, the position of our parliamentary group will be to rebuild the House at all its points. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.147.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Carlos Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.148.0	Thank you, Madam President. Quickly. I have been criticized by the Socialist Party for being put to an obvious vote. I do not think it is so obvious to put questions to the vote that they will clearly have the government's vote against. If on the part of those who do not want to pronounce themselves, who are lukewarm, who do not know where to place themselves, then it is preferable to avoid pronunciating themselves, then that is something else. But the obvious is not so much so since the government does not vote for them and the government has to be won. Then do not abstain, for example, from something as obvious as lowering rents to the most disadvantaged, from fourteen to thirty thousand. If you proposed other issues, other issues are the subject of other discussions. Whether or not you agree to lower rents to Catalans from fourteen to thirty-thousand, for that may not be so obvious. It is not obvious in Catalonia today that data from Catalans should not be used illegally. Nor is it so obvious that officials are not forced to do what they do not want to do outside the law. And since it is not obvious, then, it is put to the vote. And if it were so obvious, the government would vote in favour. And if the representative of Junts pel Yes, the honourable Member tells us that we are reassured that data from Catalans will not be used illegally, we will be much more reassured if you vote in that direction and demonstrate in that way that you are able to vote in the sense that you will not use data from Catalans illegally. With regard to the objections of Podemos and Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, already saying that we have, in fact, accepted to analyze to evaluate the digital canon. We have considered analysing it; not introducing it immediately, as Mr Coscubiela has said, but analysing it. Because we are not dogmatic about taxes and what we do believe is that there must be equality and redistribution of wealth, which is achieved...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.149.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.150.0	... precisely by lowering taxes – I finish now, President – by lowering taxes to the most disadvantaged. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.151.0	We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.152.0	Thirty_seconds for allusions and a voting item. No, just tell Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.153.0	Thirty-seconds; yes, you said it, thirty-seconds. All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.154.0	Thank you, President; forgive me. Mr. Carrizosa, not on other topics... I've taught you a picture about the stages and the IRPF. Some have to lower them, it's true – to lower rents – but some have to go up – to higher rents – because, if not, you tell me what you're going to do with less income. Or does it seek to reduce quality public services? Because the bills have to come out. We asked him for an in-depth debate on the autonomous section. You didn't want to do it. Our vote must be abstaining. Separate vote – pardon, president – of the first and last points, points 1 and 5. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.155.0	Can you vote together? Mrs Romero..., Mrs Romero, points 1 and 5 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.156.0	For a separate vote. We would ask that points 4.a, 4.b and 4.d...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.157.0	4a, 4.b and 4.d?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.158.0	... – d – is a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.159.0	But can you vote the three together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.160.0	Yeah. And the 5th, too, separately. And, if I may say so, I believe that there has been a technical error, because a departure – Carlos –, paragraph 4.c, which corresponds to the issue of green economy taxation, which was from paragraph 1, I don't know why it was placed in paragraph 4, which refers to the issue of tax data, I think it is, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah. I think it's a technical mistake. I say, if I can help, huh? Because he's wrong; he's gone from being 1.c to being 4.c. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.161.0	Is that correct, Mr. Carrizosa? [[Pause.]] So, you're saying instead of being 4.c would be 1 ter? Mr. Carrizosa, are you correct? [[Pause.]] Instead of being 4.c would be 1 ter? [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.162.0	One-to-one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.163.0	Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.164.0	Yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.165.0	So, Mr. Carrizosa, you would have asked for a separate vote on points 4.a, 4.b and 4.d, huh? , but 4.c would get you to be 1b. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Oh, excuse me. So, not then. I thought you were asking for it, Mr. Carrizosa. It's all the same. All right, then. We shall proceed to the vote. Mr. Carrizosa, do you ask for the word? [[Pause.]] No, no, Yeah? Why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.166.0	For two things. One, to clarify that the motion is ours. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.167.0	It's just, Mr. Carrizosa, I've seen it now. Yeah, you're right. That's why I asked you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.168.0	Okay, okay. And the second thing was for the allusions of Mrs. Alicia Romero, who I already know has been through a while, but...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.169.0	Thirty seconds. Yeah, it's been a long time, but I left it 30 seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.170.0	No; for, simply, Mrs Romero, we put to the vote the lowering of taxes for Catalans, who are the Spaniards who pay the most taxes in the autonomous tranche. And that is what is put to the vote and what you are going to abstain from. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.171.0	Mr. Rodriguez, do you have to ask for a separate vote on point 1a?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.172.0	To ask for the separate vote from point 1a, actually. But also because of contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.173.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.174.0	Thank you. No, the contradictions are with Mrs. Castellví's intervention. Basically, all of his intervention is a contradiction in itself. But I think there's one that's important, that's what Mr. Carrizosa is referring to now. This Parliament has fiscal sovereignty, and what is considered, Mrs Castellví, is that in that section of the IRPF where we have fiscal sovereignty we are no longer the community that has the highest tax types of all Spanish communities. So let's use fiscal sovereignty to lower taxes to the Catalans by making them lower; that's simple. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.175.0	We shall proceed to the vote. He asked himself... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Please... [[Carlos Carrizosa Torres asks to speak.]] Please, Mr. Carrizosa, let's vote, for real, huh? [[Joan Coscubala Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Coscubila... Mr. Coscubila, I gave him the word before already for allusions. [[Joan Coscubiela Conesa intervenes without using the microphone. Rialles.]] It's got to be red. [[Pause.]] Now. [[You want to "Ara, ara. Give me the applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.176.0	The one that costs you to applaud the whole chamber, to one. [[Rialles.]] No, please, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I want to explain it to you. First, the point...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.177.0	Mr. Carrizosa [[strong rialles]] I will decide how to order the vote; thank you. [[Someone said, "Mr. Coscubala, Mr. Coscubala. Give me the applause.]] Mr. Carrizosa, Mr. Carrizosa, apologize. [[Give me the applause.]] Mr. Coscubala, I'll arrange the vote, thank you; I'll organize it, thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, it's not worrying, I'm already organizing it. All right. They asked, first, 1a, separate vote of '1a, vote of '1, 5, point 1 and point 5, which also told me that they can vote together, if there is no inconvenience, and then vote also joint vote of 4a, 4.b, 4.d, and after the rest of the motion. [[The reader intervenes without using the microphone.]] They'll have to be separated, 1 and 5, because you asked for it too, Mr. Coscubila. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. Begin. Let's start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been rejected by 36 votes to 72, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 1-a-point. The vote begins. The 1 bis point was rejected by 51 votes to 83, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 4a, 4.b and 4.d. The vote begins. Points were rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 36 votes to 81, with 17 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on tax policy and data protection has been rejected by 52 votes in favour, 72 against and 10 abstentions. [[Decree-Law No 4/2017 of 18 July 2017 amending the system of improvements in the economic performance of temporary incapacity of staff in the service of the Administration of the Generalitat, its public sector and the Catalan public universities]] [[203-00011/11]] The next item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 4/2017 of 18 July 2017 amending the system of improvements in the economic performance of temporary incapacity of staff in the service of the Administration of the Generalitat, its public sector and the Catalan public universities. In accordance with Article 155.2 of the Rules, she submits this decree to Ms. Meritxell Borràs, Governance Adviser, Public Administrations and Habitats.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.178.0	Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament appear before this chamber to present the Decree of 18 July 2017 on the modification of the system of improvements in the economic performance of temporary incapacity of staff to the Generality Administration, its public sector and the Catalan public universities, a decree which was approved by the Government on 18 July, such as the deia, with an untimely character, in order to give maximum protection in these situations of temporary incapacity, guaranteeing the 100_percent of the remuneration by way of supplementation by the Administration and thus avoiding that a few of the remunerations add to the personal and family situation of the public employees affected. It is, therefore, a step further in the government's compromise so that the public vagina workers recovering the working conditions, as has been the past few months. I believe that it is also important to thank the majority unions, the General Negotiating Bureau of the Public Employee of the Administration of the Generality of Catalonia, which have made compatible the legitimate demand for better conditions for public workers with the presuppositional situation of the Generality, with the aim of reaching the agreement of 16 June that it was possible for this decree to be approved. In concrete terms, this broad rule up to eight of the assumptions envisaged until now and five of us are added, to the three cases already collected to the law. Until now the norm recognized economic compensation in cases of temporary incapacity of pregnant public employees, victims of gender-based violence and the one involving hospitalisation or surgical intervention, as well as the derivative of oncological processes; from then on, the assumed us by assisted reproduction treatment or during the lactation period, even though I do not give place to a risk situation, as well as in illnesses that have been the cause of disability with a degree equal to or greater than 33_per_cent. There will also be temporary incapacity as a result of invasive diagnostic explorations, such as endoscopy, colonoscopy, gastroscopies, fibroscopies, catheterizations and other similar ones. Similarly, in the case of voluntary interruption of pregnancy, in the first trimester of pregnancy, by pharmacological induction. Finally, there was also an increase in the assumption of temporary incapacity for other severe and compulsory maladies which had not yet been recognised, provided that they did not require hospitalization. For all that I have explained to you, I want to ask you for your support for this decree which came into force from your publication and which, therefore, has enabled public workers to already enjoy this better in their rights. In the same line, we continue to dialogue and work on the table to recover the rest of the rights of public employees, such as the 2013 return of foreign payments calendar, which we will begin to return to the coming year, and that of 2014. Therefore, our will is firm, positive and proactive to establish a built-in dialog, which produces more agreement and allows approval, if you consider it that way, of more measures as I present them today. A dialog, in fact, that has already allowed us other important agreements, and also necessary, as it was also performed at the table of last June to reduce the timing of the occupation in the Administration to 8_per_cent, and this is done in a three-year period; an agreement that will enable the provision of public service to be improved through the stabilization of the plants and the reduction of the temporality, which has grown after years in which no offers of public employment have been made. And this will make it possible to rejoin the seedlings, as well as the incorporation of new talent, and will also give the opportunity to consolidate places that have been temporarily occupied for many years. Measures, therefore, such as we are presenting today, which will succeed, which complement the Government's commitment to public workers and the parliamentary mandate expressed by this House and, above all, which count on the views of the representatives of public workers, who, without any doubt, are the ones who know their interests better. With this rule, therefore, which I have just presented, and with the agreement signed, it is clear that the government's commitment is solid and that we are and will be at the side of the public workers, as I hope all of you will do to validate this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.179.0	Thank you very much, Counselor Borràs. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Joan García, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, for a time of three minutes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.180.0	Yes, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies... I want to start with a little anecdote. Yesterday, during the debate on the reform of the Rules of Procedure, sitting there, I saw how the Counsellor, horrified, looked to this side of the Chamber and saw that the whole opposition voted together on something that was basically defending the rights of Members of this Parliament. Well, today I am telling you that there is going to be another situation, which I hope will not horrify you, which is the validation by this chamber of this decree. I would therefore like to offer you our support. But actually what we are going to validate on this day, or what we are going to validate right now, is the work of the workers' representatives, really, the one they have done during all these months, almost years, to recover or to ask for the recovery of the economic, labour and social rights of all the public workers of Catalonia, and also a recognition of the public workers of Catalonia and their sacrifice during these years of cuts. I believe, and allow me to tell you, that it is not your merit or your advice, because for me, for our group, you, Councillor Borràs, have possibly been the one who has treated public workers the worst in recent years. And I'll tell you why; for two reasons. One, because he has not been able to return the rights, those rights he spoke about before, to all workers in a situation where he could have done so; he has not done so. Secondly, because you have created a lack of protection for the public workers we have never seen in Catalonia or in democracy. It has had opportunities, in fact, and it has opportunities to counter what I am saying, because we have put it on the table, because we have tabled different motions in this Parliament that you have caused to fail over and over again, and therefore – and therefore – those democratic mandates have not led us to the situation we wanted to get to, which was a real recovery of issues such as, for example, the extra payments, which have not yet been able to schedule all this time. So, with three_minutes I couldn't say anything else, I think we've said almost everything over the past few months; I would like to be able to do it, but it couldn't be. It's clear that we don't have any more time, we don't think we have any hope that you will change too much, and I just want to approach you, if you'll allow me, counsel, that I want to say something to you personally, two wishes: one, that I hope this will be a farewell – I hope it will be a farewell – for many reasons, that we will soon have a new government that can do and finish that job that you have been unable to do, and the second wish is that you will do the best you can personally. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.181.0	Thank you very much, Mr. García. The words of Ms. Alicia Romero, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. I'm sorry... the Socialists.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.182.0	Thank you, President. Very quick, with these three minutes. The year 2012 you suspended the temporary incapacity or the 100_per_cent reward of the temporary incapacity, with only two exceptions: embarrassment and gender violence. Three more assumptions were incorporated in 2013. And it was not until 2017 that they incorporated six more, not by their will, but by the insistence of the unions and of the work that the unions have done, yes – yes – and of the parliamentary groups, that we carry many years asking for them with motions and with proposals for resolution and with proposals to the Law on Presumables and the Law on Fiscal Measures and to finance the incorporation of this and other rights suspected to the workers by the Government since 2012. Yeah, that's what we've been asking for a long time. You go here and explain it to us, as if it were a great solitaire. So, miri, it's sad. We'd love for you to come here for more, for raising your suspicions. But no, just go to the issue of temporary disabilities, which are welcome. But in any case, I believe that you should also be aware that you have many years of working at the table, yes, and that until June 16th this agreement on temporary disabilities does not go up. To me I would sincerely do a little – a little, a little – of shame. I think there's a lot of work to be done with the syndicates together to improve and raise suspicions. And you come here with a decree that, as a matter of urgency, has nothing to do with it. Because, of course, listen to me, I have to read, Mr. Sabrià, who wanted you to do it from the escó: "The need to give maximum protection in these situations of temporary incapacity guaranteeing 100_percent of the salaries by means of supplementation on the part of the Administration and thus to avoid that a minute of wages adds to the personal and family situation of the public employees affected justifies the extraordinary and urgent need to enable the figure of the decree to do so. And wasn't there an urgent need in 2013? And 2014? And 2015? And 2016? Home, you should have approved any tax and financial measures. Also, in which they presented for 2016, we had asked for many parliamentary groups. And you didn't want to. And now, in the end, facing the very much pressure, in the end, of the unions to get something, to raise some right suspicion, bring us this. But, look, it's neither urgent nor extraordinary. Because 2012 was already the year, when injustices were committed with workers who were patenting these temporary disabilities. Because we don't forget that some of the exceptions that you have now have to deal with severe illnesses, or with endoscopic tests, or with surgical tests, or with invasive diagnostic tests, is to say that with elements that we may have already incorporated a few years ago. Therefore, they demand that they work a little more, that they have more waist, that they are more flexible and that, from September 30th, as the agreement of the table says, you are able to reach more agreement with the unions. Yes, Mr. Know, they come to more agreement, because the workers deserve it. Beyond giving shots to the desktop, you need to collect the shares of the missing payments and raise a lot of other suspicions that you have eliminated them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.183.0	Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.184.0	Well, thank you, President. Counselor, I know you'd appreciate it today that all groups congratulate you on the transposition in the form of an agreement they signed last June, but today it won't be possible. It can't be bad that the decree we have here will obviously validate it. It can't be, first, because the summary of all folded would be: late and bad. Well, first of all, the date chosen, jascollidaon July 18th, is of infamous memory, but that's the same. Late because..., I know they'll tell me that it's worth more than ever – Mr. Sabria is telling me that yes, indeed – but that shouldn't be close to a serious government, which I think is deepening in the feeling, quite popularly, that this government is every time less. It is late because the expansion of the low-employment assumptions of public personnel where it is extraordinarily covered, as the councillor explained, 100_percent of the salary complementing on the part of the Administration the perception of social security by the malalta person, depend exclusively on the corresponding Administration, and, in this case, the Generalitat de Catalunya. Not to see with the central government, the oppressive state or any other euphemisms we want to serve. And more than five years ago this administration of ours detailed it for a supposedly extraordinary situation; an extraordinary thing that lasted five years. More than five years to recover in part what is already had. More than five years of negotiating with absolute gas with public workers and incorporating with clamps each of the things that was not filed more than a minute to delete. Late, very late. And sadly, frankly, because they have left themselves a sincere collection: the staff will function of Justicia, which depend on the Generality. The staff of the Administration of Justice in Catalonia have their own negotiating table and are not under the umbrella of the general table, which signed this agreement. But at this general table he remembered that this staff existed and that it was necessary to normalize their situation. What happened, then? Discoordination between Justice and Public Service? Is she left behind by her staff department? Do we have to think this over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over I don't know. In any case, the hardest thing, listen to me, is that the basis of the agreement signed at the general table is that the unions signed precisely with the Ministry of Justice and that it applies from more than a year ago to all of Spain to the staff who, I mean, also work in Catalonia that do not depend on the Generality in Justice. And then, at that time, to the companies that worked with them and that fell under the Generality, they were told that they could not apply it, because they fell under the Generality's assumptions. And now they're off guard. I'm doing, please, an act of good faith. We're asking the government for a quick solution. They make another decree, if it is urgent, but they equip this collection, which is not left, which does not continue to be more discriminated against than the others. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.185.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. The words "Mrs. María José García", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.186.0	Thank you, President. Consellera, ladies and gentlemen, from the People's Party of Catalonia we will validate the decree proposed to us and we are pleased that the government is timidly abandoning its position against the civil service, even if it is under pressure from Parliament. Let us remember that last May 18 we approved Motion 121/XI, at the request of my group, but by a large majority – unanimity, on some points – a motion that it was very hard to agree on so that everyone could do theirs and vote on it, putting the interests of public service workers ahead of party interests. We wanted to reactivate the negotiation at the general table by endorsing trade union demands, as the motion reflected. And we got it. And I want to thank all groups again for their generosity. With that democratic mandate the general table met and reached some agreements, few. One of these agreements is the recovery of the right that we validate today. And it is fine, but it is absolutely insufficient; first, because it does not recognize the recovery of the 100_per_cent of the wage for temporary incapacity since January 1 as approved in the motion, and, second, because it is very discouraging that out of the twenty-three points of Motion 121/XI only progressed in two, and incompletely. We hope that the Government will focus on its responsibilities, especially this: the fair management of its staff. Because, as we have said before, the Government has made a moral commitment to its workers, who have had generous and impeccable behaviour during the crisis. We therefore urge the Government to return to the table with an equally impeccable and generous attitude, because it has an undeniable democratic mandate, an inescapable commitment and a better financial situation that it must use to reward those who have been most tense. And we ask the Generalitat to stop interfering with the tranquillity and legal security of its public workers. Because collaborating with an illegal act, prohibited by the Constitutional Court, is a crime. And it is not fair for the Government to put any worker on the line of collaborating with an illegal act, with the logical consequences it would have on any rule of law, or to point out that it does not want to collaborate, with the consequences of stigmatization and reprisals that some have already suffered. Officials should not be loyal to the general interest of the Generalitat, they should not be mistaken; they should be loyal to legality – and there is only one in the real world – and to the general interest of Catalans, which is nothing but to know that our Administration complies with the law, and thus protects us from the arbitrariness and abuse of power of politicians who believe above all else. Review article 71 of the Statute or 103 of the Constitution. I am convinced that these ideas are very clear to our public workers, apart from each other's legitimate political preferences, but that they know that they should not interfere with the excellent performance of their work, always in accordance with the law. Thank you very much, President, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.187.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The words of Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.188.0	President... He will advise, deputies, we will validate the decree, and we are glad, that the government has done so, and that we think that the workers have withdrawn this decree from their collective bargaining force, that we have always defended, and that it is a right, moreover, that forms part of the recovery of the rights that have been overthrown over the last few years and that still many of the pending ones remain. The validity, also, the decree, the validation also, in line and in the will that we think that this right, which gives maximum protection in these situations of temporary disability guaranteeing 100_per_cent wages and somehow avoids the loss of wages, adds to the personal and familiar situation, because we understand that this is a right that would have to keep the whole working class together, because what is good for the public workers must also be good for everyone, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.189.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Garriga. The words of Mr Sergi Sabrià, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.190.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. I don't think I can start in another way that highlights change, can I? I think that for some time in the last parliamentary term we went down here and ended up talking about freezing, retailing, a super-delicate situation, and I think that the four last ones, like at least, came out here to be able to talk about recovery, about returning to the previous conditions, to make that compromise come true that you always insisted that it was empty, that we would make every effort possible because everything that had been lost at a very difficult stage is recovered later. Maybe it's slow and maybe we're trigging more than we'd like, all of us – the councilwoman, the general secretary, who is..., the secretary of Public Service who is seeing us, the director... –, all of us would like to go much more quickly, but in any case it's obvious that the change has been very important and that we are constantly talking about recovery. It's obvious to everyone, maybe less for you, that they've tried to put water in the living and convert it to what's good news that seemed like a lot of bad news, in some way very hard, isn't it? We're putting in the process, which always works for us, like the PP and also a little Ciutadans, or inventing another theme, right? "Listen, how good this is, let's talk about something else. That it's obvious that there are no other problems, but it's not bad that when we go out here to give good news, we don't go to the other band. And besides, recovery is just as it's always been, isn't it? ; therefore, it is one hundred per cent, we have broadened the causes to eight and, therefore, we avoid that these people who are patenting an already very delicate situation, therefore, have a loss of purchasing capacity. I think there are a few recognitions to do too: the work of the table, his willingness to come to terms. It's... I don't know if thank you or what name we have to ask you, but I'm celebrating a lot more of them, coming out of the table, the agreement, than all of you are celebrating in this room, which, I insist, is trying to explain it as if it was very bad news – a lot of bad news. Escort, we're on. There's a lot of work left, there's a lot more understanding to get to. I think that, and I've said it again and again from here, we've understood what our position is, and so many times it's up to us to help the table and it's up to us to help them come to terms, and so, in the way that we can, so, put them on the road so that's it. But I come back to say this one more time: it seems to me that today is excellent news, that, moreover, it adds to a call of nine places, that they improve the staff's stability and that, moreover, they also lower the temporality. It seems to me that we have to highlight from here, that little has been said to the interventions, that the return of the pay for 2013. So, listen, when this happens, we're good to talk about it. Because I, most of you, have heard them say many times that this would never happen. Come on, much better than a year ago. There's a lot of work left to do. We go on, because the next time we go down to talk about public office is another time to give good news. Thank you. Many thanks, Counselor, for the work.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.191.0	We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. Mr. Vidal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.192.0	Out of contradiction, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.193.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.194.0	Yeah. Look, Mr. Sabri, when... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it. Pause.]] Now. Sergi, go for you: hello. [[Rialles.]] No, just a question, when I come out here I don't come out in the name of Initiativa, I come out in the name of Catalunya Yes, it is Pot – it's just an acclaim. In any case, it's good news. What I'm saying is this news is not to congratulate them. What I haven't done is congratulate them. And then the theme of justice officials, and as long as it's quiet; it's not just quiet, but it's recognizable for the same Public Service Directorate. Therefore, you have not offered a solution to this collection, which will continue to be discriminated against if you do not offer it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.195.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.196.0	Out of contradictions, President. [[Pause.]] Contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.197.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.198.0	Thank you, President. First of all, Mr Sabrià – yes, it goes for you – to support, without precedent, Mr Vidal, because I have not said the subject of judicial officials because he has already explained it very well before, but it is true that it is an aggravation that we hope will be corrected urgently. And second, are the unions so happy? Well, they're not so happy, Mr. Sabrià. I know that of the three unions present at the general table, only two signed the agreement, because it is worth little and late than nothing, but there was a third union that did not sign, which did not sign the agreement because it found it insufficient. So, so happy aren't the unions and so well we're not going. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.199.0	We vote for the validation of Decree Law 4/2017. The vote's on. The law amending the system of improvements in the economic performance of temporary incapacity of staff in the service of the Administration of the Generalitat, its public sector and the Catalan public universities has been validated by 131 votes in favour, against and against. According to Article 155.4 of the Rules, one time the decree has been validated I ask them now to the chamber if they want to..., if any group wants to pass this decree as draft law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Proposal for a resolution on support for legal and secure access to the right of asylum and on the exercise of the right to freedom of movement]] [[250-01127/11]] Let us continue, therefore, with the next item on the agenda, which is: debate and vote on the motion for a resolution on the support of legal lives and secure access to the right of asylum and on the exercise of the right to freedom of movement. In accordance with Rule 165.1 of the Rules of Procedure, the proposed parliamentary group or groups may intervene to present the motion for a resolution. As this proposal has been presented jointly by three parliamentary groups, we shall proceed, first of all, to the intervention of these groups. The first to speak will be Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot. [[Widow's remorse.]] I'm in a hurry, please, so we can continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.200.0	Thank you, President. I would like to greet the companies that accompany us from various non-governmental organisations, which have been working with the Refugee Working Group of this Parliament in Catalonia. I'll ask the deputies of this chamber one thing, hardly usual. I promise you it's not a toilet, but I'd like you to make an effort, that you can read this motion for a resolution. And I say it's not a toilet, because it's normal for Members of Parliament to specialize in a topic, this topic we know, work, and that other Members of Parliament groups, therefore, trust in the leadership of those we're carrying a topic and not read. But those days that come on vacation and maybe tomorrow's plenary can find a moment and read this motion for a resolution. I think it helps us all to reflect. He says things that matter to us. Well, this Ple argued, some time ago, a refugee movement. Subsequently, the Foreign Affairs Committee of Parliament also approved a motion for a resolution. And from these parliamentary initiatives it went along with the construction of a working group that has been working in the last few months in an important way. This working group, with a cadence of every fifteen days, has addressed comparisons and sectoral analysis of asylum policies in our country, in the conjunct of the Spanish State and in the march of the European Union. And the fruit of all this work sees this motion for a resolution, which, as you know, is a little common mechanism: the motions for a resolution go to committee, and in this case it goes to plenary; go to plenary because the entities asked us, and because the plenary of Parliament and the parliamentary groups that have participated in the working group want to demonstrate with this debate and with this vote that it is an issue that matters to us, it is an issue that concerns us. And so, that's why I gave them to the beginning that they ask, please, that they can read it when they have a little time. Obviously, we are talking about public asylum policies; public asylum policies which, as the text we are carrying today, are concrete in a demand in the motion for a resolution, which says: "Legal and secure lives are mechanisms that are free from public policies in the states in order to ensure the exercise of the right to freedom of movement and facilitate the right to asylum of persons forcibly displaced, preserving not so much life as its integrity and dignity. And I can assure you that when we read the proposal and add to the numbers that are being manipulated in the European Union as a whole, we are talking about it. We are talking about absolutely worrying figures: 21,3_million refugees; 40,8_million internally displaced persons; 3,2_million asylum seekers. Of these, 10,000 children and children disappeared in 2016, 10,000 minors abducted, raped, prostituted, enslaved and murdered for extremity in their vital organs and selling the black market. I believe that when we read these things, which are passing through our home, which are passing through the borders of this armored Europe which is sometimes being built, we have to ask ourselves what we are, what country we are and what country we want, and what European Union is managing at this point in time this crisis. That's why this text is so important to us. And the European Union has answered, yes: 1,200_quilometres more walls and concerts; externalisation of European borders to Libya and Turkey, and also surrender to racist government chants like that of Hungary, and cover only 25_percent of the quotas that the European Union itself has self-printed. Therefore, we have also told this to the representative of the European Commission in Catalonia and the Balearic Islands here in parliamentary session. But we also reminded him that when the European Union took part in bombings in Libya, Syria, Iraq, Afghanistan or Ukraine, it has caused part of what we are now managing. I, therefore................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.201.0	Mr. Nuet, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.202.0	- I'm done. And, therefore, we obviously have to cry out how hypocrisy! We ask to vote in favour; we ask for more commitments to the Government of Catalonia, leadership and financing for legal and secure lives. But today, with this text, we are clearly taking a step...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.203.0	Mr. Nuet, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.204.0	...incoming. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.205.0	Thank you, Mr. Nuet. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.206.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. First, asil's company and company. Cat, and the Stop Dead Sea and the Catalyst that you accompanied us, thank you for being here. Like Nuet has already explained how many sessions we've had with you and so on, I'm going to go further. I think the sessions we've had of this intergroup, of this working group, have served us... Thanks to you, first, for all the presentations you've made of the situation of these thousands and thousands of human beings who are experiencing absolutely indescribable situations. Thank you that you have framed us this dramatic situation between existing policies. And thank you for arguing with us and proposing the reasons for your dissent, too, right? , of your disagreement over which you have built proposals, right? Dissidences with evil and unjust policies: we have talked many times about the Foreign Law; we have talked about the existence of the CIES; we have talked about the support of the Spanish State to the Frontex; about the failure of policies, like the agreements of the European Union – said Nuet – but also against the absolute violation of the human rights of many thousands of these people, and especially of the southern border, so close to our home. We have also talked about the absence of policies; the absence of transcendental policies, such as the rule of the Asylum Law, which is essential, or the financing policies of economic endowments that help to frame all of this. And that is why – the company said so too – the motion for a resolution we are putting forward in this Parliament is a motion for a resolution that is the result of this dissent and disagreement. Now, it's a motion for a resolution with twenty-three points; it could be a lot more. Asylum's company and company. Stop Mare Mortum knew perfectly well – concretely in this proposal, Stop Mare Mortum –, which was much longer, its list. Some have simply fallen because they had already been presented in other motions; others have fallen because they were not the competence of the Generality, and others are still present. But of these twenty-three concrete points, fifteen are complaints to urge the Spanish Government to compliment him, and eight are petitioned to the Generality. This is why we have two instances before a serious problem, like all the policies of colliding, assailing and accompanying, which are substantially the competence of a state, the Spanish State, which prevents, does not give way, which prohibits Catalonia from being able to take a superior and autonomous gesture, regardless of its policies, so that we can make effective the policies of colliding. And it's true that we have limitations. But, Mr. Romeva – since he is the advisor here, and Mrs. Bassa, who is here – there is also another part of politics, which is the lack of political will. We will vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, but, please, what is the reason why the Government of Catalonia cannot finance humanitarian corridors? Because there are private entities – as we just remembered a moment ago, the companies and companies of Stop Mare Mortum – that are financing these humanitarian corridors. And some of us have them here for, at our house, at the Raval. Why does the Government of Catalonia, although it has no powers, despite the fact that we depend on the powers of the Spanish State, despite the fact that the agreements of the European Union are with the Spanish State, etc., why can't we have..., if we have the will, and we can look for money, and we can look for finance, why can't we start having clear and precise practices of this human corridor? Well, we know perfectly well that we are at a complicated, complex, hopeful moment. We'll have a reference. We will, therefore, have a citizen's consultation, which we hope will result in the construction of our Catalan Republic. And we have the first and immediate steps that we would give in this Catalan Republic. First, it would be the creation of a program, a plan of gathering strictly Catalan character, political, with all the competitions, with all the financing..., to establish that the delegations of the Catalan agency..., should be offices of support, advice and information for all the migrants and refugees who are in these moments hoping to be cherished. We would like to see the observer of Catalan companies outside, to avoid and to punish those companies which, like Indra or Mango, are ad hoc against labour rights and against human rights and against the security of refugees. We would like to finish and close Frontex, and allocate these resources to other types of policies; we would like to shut down the CIEs in a definitive way, and, in short, we would like to be able to say loudly that Catalonia, our home, is your home, home of all, if there is anyone's home. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.207.0	Thank you, Mrs Serra. The words of Ms. Adriana Delgado, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.208.0	Thank you, President, good afternoon. He will advise, advise, Director of Cooperation and the companies of the entities that have accompanied us to the intergroup, good afternoon everyone. Well, my companies have already commented, what touches on this PR is to put in value that it is a retreat of proposals that have emerged in this intergroup in which there is the participation of various entities; also Government, we have also listened to the witnesses of refugees. There have been intense sessions, we have reflected on legal and safe lives, the skills of the different administrations, we have analyzed the correspondents in forced displacements, we have treated the capacities and the conditions of colliding of the displacements, among many other themes. Therefore, from the outset, donations, a thank you to these participating entities – today we see here Stop Mare Mortum, Asil, to the fund, also – and also to the fellow Members in this intergroup that started with difficulties but that among all, therefore, we have been able, as Nuet company recalled, to bring this proposal of resolution exceptionally in a ple. For what it does to the text, the same expression of motius is already placed on the table that European states are not responsible for forced displacements, nor the Spanish State, and that the repeated delay in approving the rule of the Asylum Law has a very high cost for people who precisely need this international protection, because it could put in the way various instruments to facilitate these legal and secure ways of access that we are asking for, as in other countries. This must be taken into account as a basis, too, and the text remembers it: first, the establishment of these mechanisms is the competence of the State, and two, to show the people's support for creation, development and implementation of these legal and secure lives. And that is what we are committing ourselves to with this motion for a resolution from Parliament and, I am convinced, also from the Catalan Government. In fact, on various occasions there has been an offer to coordinate a humane corridor for beneficiaries of international protection, which would involve a financial contribution, and that is why we say that the process of integration and integration must be involved and financed by the group of institutional, social and civic actors. Also related to this point, the motion for a resolution urges, in another point, the Spanish Government to approve the establishment of a humane corridor that guarantees the arrival in Catalonia of persons legally and securely and that their stay is not limited either by duration, by reason of work or by access to nationality. Well, back to the petitions we make in this proposal to the Catalan Government, therefore, it refers to many areas: format programs, university programs and format cycles for refugee students; it also refers to the arrival of unaccompanied minors, who at these times surpass their own skills, and calls for the creation of a collide program for them, specific, in the countries that are included in relocation and resettlement programs; and also identify the places and services that can be offered to deploy it accurately. But, as we say at first, it is the State that has the competitions in asylum, as Congresswoman Serra remembered. Much of this motion for a resolution is to urge the Catalan Government to urge the Spanish Government, for example, to make the criteria for family reunification more flexible; on polysonic issues, to facilitate the information of the territory; to establish a protocol of compulsory compliments; the fiction of returns in warm, etc. And also reiterate, as I recalled, petitions already made by the same Government of the Generality or that we have approved in this Parliament in previous motions; here we find the complaints of the compliment of the commitments of resettlement and relocation; the development of the rule of the Asylum Law, as it gave the principle; the withdrawal of support to the agreement between the European Union and Turkey; the closure of the CIEs, etc. Well, in any case, I repeat the good work that has been done in this intergroup, the will of the highest consensus on the part of all the parliamentary groups, and that at the end, even though we must try, therefore, to do much more work, this Parliament which has on the table is a complete, concrete resolution, in order to ensure, as far as possible, the exercise of the right to free movement of persons and to facilitate safe lives to come, and not to force people who seek a better life to be victims of death or horror. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.209.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Delgado. The words of Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.210.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, conseller Romeva, effectively from the Ciutadans Group also donates thanks to the intergroup, to the members of the intergroup, and therefore, in particular, to Stop Mare Mortum. We have spent many folded sessions in the case of this intergroup, and we have also spoken in private about many questions that ultimately, therefore, appear today in this motion for a resolution. We, from Ciutadans..., indeed, the Government of Spain is the Government that has competence in many of the questions affecting the issue of refugees, and therefore we will obviously vote in favour of speeding up the entrances of refugees, not only on this proposal, but we have already insisted on this idea. The Government of Spain must comply with the commitments of the European Union; at this time we are not coming to a 10_percent of the commitments that we have undertaken in relocation and resettlement. The Government of Spain, as it is, must comply with international obligations and, therefore, must comply with the Convention on the Status of Refugees. And in relation to this, therefore, it also has to be completed not only with the Asylum Law, but also that we see much needed and very urgent that it is discussed and adopted once and for all the rule of the Asylum Law, because it is also a way of completing with the international right, which it often refers to the internal rights, because it is possible to finish fulfilling these international obligations. Therefore, we shall vote in favour of all this. We believe, however, that there are points..., and we ask for a separate vote, President – but after our spokesman, then, I will say again, do not let me leave any point –, separate vote from points 9.3, 9.4, 10 and 11, because they contemplate aspects such as access to nationality, aspects such as requests for international protection in embassies and consulates, that from the outset we are not against it, but we believe that a much more accurate reflection is needed, that what is dealt with is to integrate these people and not to have a reboot effect, that we believe that the place where it is done is precisely in the discussion and approval of the rule of the Asylum Law, that, as I said before, we believe that it is much, much necessary that it is already, and that it is then discussing, therefore. We are also very much in agreement that a European maritime rescue agency is really needed in the European Union, and therefore we will vote in favour of it. We also believe that the agreement between the European Union and Turkey was a very bad agreement, was an agreement or is a political agreement that violates binding international obligations for the state, and therefore also for Spain. Now, that's what I'm saying... And we have therefore voted against this agreement here, and also in the European Parliament. But, said that, we believe that calling for an immediate, precautionary suspension, without having an alternative, in a situation that is very serious, with 2 million refugees in Turkey, with a Turkish population that is also patenting violations of human rights, and without offering this alternative, makes us because the cure is worse than the crisis, which is already very difficult. And, therefore, from this point of view, we would not agree. We also agree very much that this is an issue in which the State, Spain, does not only have obligations and commitments, but also the Generality has obligations and commitments. We think it's a good idea to have a university student program, a program for unaccompanied minors, which had already been approved in others – or similar – resolutions. It's hard for us to know that he didn't accept the drug, right? That the Councillors respect, therefore, come to Parliament to give explanations so that they can follow up on the things that are taking place in this Parliament and we can also give our opinion and be able to follow up. But in any case, it seems to us that these are very necessary, very urgent measures, in order to have, therefore, an adequate protection of the person from the moment he is up until the moment he is integrated and has to be treated with the best possible conditions. From this perspective, therefore, we are glad again that a motion or a motion for a resolution on refugees has been tabled; we will continue to talk about this subject, and we hope that many of these proposals will actually be turned into concrete and fruitful results. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.211.0	Thank you, Mrs Beltran. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.212.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Counsellor, Members, Members, let me first of all, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, thank the tireless and insurmountable task of the entities that have been pushing this motion for a resolution, such as the Asil network. and stop Mare Mortum, and also that of many other Catalan, Spanish and European organizations working day by day on land in the countries of origin of these conflicts, in border areas, and also at sea, to deal with the disasters that are creating European policy, the policy of European states in the matter of asylum, refugee and, if it is allowed, also in migration policy. Mirin, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has submitted three papers to the motion for a resolution finally signed by the three groups that have submitted it, basically to incorporate what has already been resolved by the Parliament of Catalonia in respect of the foreign internment centres and to do so in the terms that generated a greater consensus, because we would like to preserve this consensus, which is a consensus towards the closure of foreign internment centres. In the second place, to continue distinguishing, because we believe that you have felt it done, between the special reinforced protection that must be given to people who are forced to leave their country because of a situation of persecution or violence, and, in any case, add the reflection that in the future people who are victims of climate change, environmental change will be included in this figure of the refuge; but, at the same time, to reflect on the necessary development of the magnified Jesus in the international sphere. They know that international texts recognize the right to leave their own country and the right to return there, and, obviously, there are texts that protect the rights of migrants, but there is not a full development of the magnified Jesus in his four main aspects: the right not to see'stried to emigrate, the right to emigrate, the right to settle peacefully and the right to return, especially for what he does to the right to settle peacefully, because the states are very jealous of the control of their territory and their people. And we believe that it would be necessary to reflect, especially considering that, as much as we are talking about migration, it is a false image: what we are living, let us say, in the past decades, in the postmodern stage, is an intensification of the migratory movements that have existed at the length of the history of humanity, basically because of the ease and the disruption of communications, and also because of the effects of colonial and post-colonial policies on the countries that emanate from these migratory movements. Therefore, we tried to do this, once we tried to incorporate a question that has already been commented upon, which is, let us say, to make clearer in the text of the resolution proposal the will of the Government of Catalonia to gather through the compromise to co-finance this human corridor. We understand that, indeed, it is not a matter of competition. As has been said, there are communities, such as the Community of Sant Egidi, and private entities that have been involved in these humanitarian corridors, in the case of France or in the case of Italy, and we understand that... obviously, they also require the co-responsibility of other institutional institutions, but it would be warm for the Generality to commit itself to it. There is practically no time left, but I would like more than to go into the series of other questions which are raised in the motion for a resolution, with which we agree and which we will vote in favour, to make a reminder of what we are talking about, right? Because what we are talking about is not what alternative we agree between the states of the European Union and Turkey, which we effectively denounce, like Ciutadan and as we have made many groups of this chamber, because we believe that it is contrary to the commitments made internationally for these states: it is that the alternative to this pact is the compliment of the international obligations that these states have acquired. Why, what will be the expectation of people who need asylum and refuge in the future if they see a flagrant incompliment? We are ahead of a policy that is not only extremely gaseous, but extremely harmful to international relations on the part of the European Union; it is extremely lacking in empathy. We take any of you, we take any of us, in the situation of a family trapped on the border between Syria and Turkey, fleeing from the rain of lead that falls daily on that country. What's the alternative we give them? To risk life, to risk being trafficked, to offend at any point in the Mediterranean? And the answer is that a few years ago Italian ministers recommended canonizing the boats that were trying to reach southern Italy, or that of Minister Zoido, said that NGOs should try not to collaborate with the mafias and not rescue the people at sea. This is what leads us to take to the extreme the speech against goodism, and the cynical speech, when we're talking about human lives, which is what we're talking about when we're talking about asylum and shelter. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.213.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. Next is the words of Mr. Fernando Sánchez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.214.0	President, Councillor, Councillor, Friends, also, of the entities you are accompanying us today, let us celebrate this year the sixtieth anniversary of the Treaties of Rome, which were signed precisely after a period of war, devastation and refuge, and which brought about that dream of peace, freedom, fraternity, which the European Union's leaders had spent some time. And today we have to say, because so many times we criticize it: the European Union is the first geography of freedom and social protection in the world. Some people always describe it as hell, but this hell, unfortunately, has to lay tanks because it doesn't come in everyone, and, in change, those paradises that some worship have to lay tanks because people want to escape. But the European Union, despite everything, has major shortcomings. Failures that in the background are – and shadows – a betrayal of his founding spirit. And these months we've seen in this intergroup, which has been intense, in what we've been after a lot, in the background, and what we've seen as the Mediterranean, which is a sea of light, it's a sea of civilization, it's turned into a sea of tears and darkness these past years. And it is true that the problem is of enormous magnitude – the problem is of enormous magnitude – and we cannot deny it. And we must recognise that it seems that there are potentials interested in destabilising Europe; that the solution goes through Syria once and for all; that the remix – and all of you know it – is not opening up all borders, that there are derivatives of security that we cannot need; that there are conditions that take advantage of people and our systems; that there is a situation of social crisis, also for example in our country, that must lead us to be cautious, and that recklessness sometimes also has conflicting effects, because historical dramas are full of good intentions. That's all true, and it's true. But it is also true that Europe has not done enough, and that its states have not done enough, and that we could have done much more, and that now we have an ethical duty to do more. To begin – and we will vote in favour – to fulfill the commitments we have made, all states, our own, as well as Spain. I therefore welcome the fact that a few days ago, in an appearance, Minister Zoido said that we would try every month to reach five hundred people in our country. Without forgetting the seven-thousand-thirteen-thousand-thirty-year-old Spanish asylum procedures that are not usually spoken of. But the dues are not just for the ministry, which in tea; we will also vote in favour of deploying the rule of the Asylum Law. The same minister said he was asking for a consensus from all groups to get it deployed. The duties are not only of the ministry, they are also of the Generality; in addition to making a lot of propaganda about this subject of refugees, councillors and councillors, they must set aside all the places that you have undertaken to offer, four thousand, so that we know only by preparing thousands and chess. We must also assume from the government, councillor, councillor Romeva, we must assume from the whole government the problem of unaccompanied minors. This cannot only be in the hands of DGAIA. The advisor knows perfectly well, the DGAIA is absolutely overwhelmed. Therefore, we will be voting in favour of enhancing resettlement and relocation programmes for unaccompanied minors, but we need the entire government to get involved, because, if not, the AIFM will eventually overflow. We, in fact, consider that legal and safe lives must be established. And we think that in the framework of the agreement with Turkey, if it applies well, it can be done. It has been pointed out, however, that the colour would ask us to vote for them, but that it would lead us out of the European consensus, and that they have some hint of certain utopianism with unpredictable results. Ladies and gentlemen, in the end politics is not a practical or theoretical science, it is a craftsmanship; a craft between ideal and reality. And there are many possible ways to make this craftsmanship and perhaps diverge in some of them, but I think that always in the workshop of this craftsmanship we should have those words that Tzvetan Todorov said when he collected the Prime Prince of Asturias the year 2008, some magnificent words, a spectacular speech, which in read only a few small sentences: "To be civilized does not mean to have attended higher studies or possess great wisdom. Being civilized means being able to fully recognize the humanity of others. This concerns us all because the alien is not just the other; we ourselves were or will be, yesterday or tomorrow, at the dawn of an uncertain fate. Each of us is a potential foreigner. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.215.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. Then there's the word Mrs. Adriana Delgado to pronounce herself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.216.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good afternoon again, and briefly..., well, with Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the CUP, that we are the three proposing groups, we rejected Ciutadans's ideas; some were of little consideration, basically semantic, and we understand that they pull forward with support. We did not accept the issue of appearances, which this motion for a resolution backs it up, because indeed the parliamentary groups, so we already have the mechanisms available to ask them, to make parliamentary control convenient and it does not have to be in this proposal for concrete matters, huh? ..., and actions on asylum and shelter. The Party of Socialists in Catalonia called for a change to point number 1, which refers to finance, and also made no reference to Serra's company. We here, in this PR, what we have set up is what allows, now for now, therefore, to approve, to pull forward, with these state powers. But the government has expressed, and will do so again, the will to help establish them..., yes, to a humane corridor, which means guaranteeing the corresponding legality for a good integration, for a normal job insertion, etc. As you have said, we have accepted the other two points, which refer to the closure point of the CIEs, which summarises the conclusions of the working group which addressed the issue in the last parliamentary term here in Parliament. And we also accepted the message at point 12, as I said, which refers to the expansion of the concept of ‘refugee person', which calls for inclusion of displaced persons also for environmental and climate reasons. And this is the summary. And, in any case, again thanks to the entities and thanks to the Members for the work done at the intergroup. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.217.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Delgado. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Mr. Sanchez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.218.0	To ask for a separate vote from a lot of points. I don't know if you want me to read them or prefer that we vote separately from all points.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.219.0	No, no, You see my tooth, seeing how many there are.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.220.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.221.0	You tell me and so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.222.0	So, the 1st...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.223.0	...we'll look at it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.224.0	... l'1, 3.2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9.3, 9.4, 9.6, 9.7, 9.8, 10, l'11, 12 and 13. You see we've been working on getting the job done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.225.0	And can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.226.0	No, that's why I told him if he wanted to... tell him who can vote together, if he wants to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.227.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.228.0	It's the 5, the 6...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.229.0	One moment, one moment. Say, say, the 5, the 6...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.230.0	The 5th, the 6th, the 7th, the 9.3th, the 9th, the 9th, the 12th, the 13th. Well, actually, the others can also vote together, like in two blocks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.231.0	Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.232.0	To ask for a separate vote. [[Pause.]] Of points 4, 9.3, 9.4, 9.6, 9.7, 10 and 11.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.233.0	Therefore, they will not be able to vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.234.0	We could all vote together except 9.7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.235.0	Well, a separate vote has been asked – I'll repeat it, eh? , please – points 1, 3.2, 4, 5, 6 and 7, which could be voted together; 9.3, 9.4, 9.6, 9.7, 9.8, 10, 11, 12 and 13. Right? [[Pause.]] So, we're doing this vote. First, we'll vote for point number one. The vote begins. Number 1_has been approved by 121 votes against and 10 abstentions. We would then vote on points 3.2 and 4. Can you vote together, 3.2 and 4? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, let's vote... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The four, aside. 3.2, 5, 6 and 7 are able to vote together? [[Pause.]] Yes or no? [[Pause.]] No, no, [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We will vote on 3.2 with 9.8, which you can vote together. 3.2 and 9.8, okay? [[Pause.]] We jointly vote on points 3.2 and 9.8. The vote begins. Points 3.2 and 9.8 were approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] What is it that can vote together with 9.4? [[Pause.]] So, we're voting point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 96 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 5, 6 and 7, together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] You see, 5, 6 and 7, 12 and 13 can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 5, 6 and 7, 12 and 13, so let's go vote them together. The vote begins. Points were approved by 121 votes to 10, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point 9.3... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 9.3, 9.6 and 9.7, okay? [[Pause.]] The vote begins. [[Someone said, "No, no, no.]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, 9.3 and 9.6. The vote begins. Now. [[Pause.]] Points were approved by 95 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on 9.4. The vote begins. The point was approved by 96 votes to 10, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on 9.7. The vote begins. The point was approved by 96 votes to 35, with no abstentions. We will now vote on points 10 and 11, together. The vote begins. Points were approved by 96 votes in favour, against and 35 abstentions. We shall now vote on the rest of the motion for a resolution. The vote begins. The motion for a resolution on the support for legal and secure access to the right of asylum and on the exercise of the right to freedom of movement has been adopted by 131 votes in favour, against and against. [[Perlongats applause.]] [[Motion subsequent to the government's inquiry into housing]] [[302-00174/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on housing presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, please, ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Please, I'm in a hurry and I'm quiet. Thank you. Mrs. Ibarra, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.236.0	Yeah? Thank you, President. It's just that I don't have time. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Is that it? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, now I do. Thank you, President. Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, he said, in the question about housing that we had done in the past, we focused on the situation in which Catalonia respected housing. We said that all the possible analyses, all the diagnoses had been made, but that no effective solutions had been sought or found to remedy the lack of housing that affects so many families. We have manifest data: 230,000 social habitats, a public park of 2_per_cent, much lower than the current needs and also much lower than 15 of the European average. And we especially put the focus on a collection that is affected in a very clear way on the issue of housing: young people. And why, young people? So, because, as I said, because of the conditions that are currently produced on the issue of occupation, young people are a collection that have many more difficulties in accessing a habitat than others, and because we understand that, in the same way that we are active politicians, for example, in employment for young people or in other areas as in access to culture, we also have to make active policies because young people can access the habitat. We understand that housing emergencies have been a priority for the government, but they have been working on emergencies for a long time and the government cannot focus indefinitely on these urgent situations. Obviously, I can't untie them, that's not what we say. But it has to be able to manage emergencies and then push public policies that wander beyond urgent situations; we need planning to be able to design what model of housing, social housing and housing in general, we want for our country. The reason we presented them was to initially set up a series of proposals that were in line to get a housing park sufficient to guarantee those needs that Catalonia has. And with the contributions that the different groups have made, to which we appreciate their willingness, therefore, to reach agreement, we believe that a purpose document has emerged that can bring a series of measures that can really be interesting and can be useful precisely to ensure this objective of obtaining this public housing park and to improve access to housing for people who are in the worst situation. Who are these measures? Well, they are measures that are centered, on the one hand, in small owners, intensifying information campaigns because these small and medium-sized owners put their habitat in logger; also in the purchase of HPO habitats already in use, in the promotions that are already in use, up to a 25_per_cent through the tanteig and retraction, which we know is already done, but intensify this purchase so, therefore, to obtain a stable public park of habitat. Measures also targeted at large-scale landowners, with the acquisition of habitat for these large-scale landowners, incentivizing agreements with financial entities as well as for the larger extent of the habitats they have registered in the register of empty landowners. We are talking about 47,000 habitats, of which only four thousand have yielded. The measures, directly, that ask the government, such as to increase the resources in the presupposition of 2018, and to increase them trying to reach the resources that we had in the presuppositions, for example, of 2009. And more to promote a series of legislative reforms that wander in the direction that it is possible to build, to a large extent, in its majority, habitat that is to be found in the rules, therefore, of protection, suitable habitation and social habitation. And we finally proposed a series of measures for young people, because, as we have said, we understood that it was a collection that was especially keen in this sense and that needed special attention. We are talking about a tax relief on capital transfers and we are talking about a reserve of about 30_percent of the housing obtained for persons under thirty-five years of age, and also about a reserve of 30_percent of the social logger housing from the cessation agreements, and, in addition, increasing the aid for paying the logger for the usual housing. These are the proposals that we think could be, let us say, important in order to achieve this objective of obtaining a public park of more important habitats, sufficient for the needs we have, and, as we go into this task, so these measures are much more concrete and do not require such an important economic resource. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.237.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. The words of Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, to defend the papers presented.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.238.0	Thank you, President. Well, from our parliamentary group we will give support to the motion presented today by the Socialist Group. We believed, we thought from the principle, that it contained an uncertain diagnosis of the housing situation and very reasonable proposals. And we are pleased to see that the set of issues and transactions that are incorporated into the motion in some way reflect that, beyond the legitimate debates and differences that exist and will persist and that we will discuss between the different political forces, there are, as well, important elements of consensus, understanding of the problem, of the situation, which allow us to define shared lines of action. And that's important, because a few days ago the press, so, it's made up of how the bottle of llogers stretched from Barcelona to the conjunct of the metropolitan area and much more there. And to say this in this sense as the young man's motivating statement, that we're still having an unsustainable situation, so it's not exaggeration. To the structural deficiencies in social housing, with a park that with much more than two-per-cent of the existing habitats when we should be around a 15-per-cent, it adds the consequences of an absolating recession and now a tremendous speculative wave; an upswing spiral that is involving the massive expulsion of people from its barrels, with medium and low yields, and that bar, of course – is one of the concerns of the young man – the way and life projects that young people can pose themselves. From this point of view, it seems to me, if you allow me a parenthesis, an excellent news the ongoing experience of the formation of a union of lodgers in Barcelona, which are extending to the metropolitan area and which we hope can have an incidence, from social movement, precisely in the situation of the abuses that have occurred. For what it does to public administrations, the key to its intervention and its ability to influence the market effectively, as it is sub-raised, with the aim of developing a public park of suitable logger habitats. I, in order to build this park, is meant, effectively, to act in three scenes – we share this idea that sketches the motion –: to intensify the temporary cessation of habitat; to acquire habitat already built in use, empty or well occupied, without title enabling, and, naturally, to generate new habitat promotions. Thus, the motion – and we share it too – addresses a whole series of media to achieve these objectives: to promote the cessation of habitat of small owners for a taxed logger; to intensify the arrangements with the financial entities; to resort to time and retraction for the acquisition of habitat; to guarantee reserves of only for the habitat of official protection in the new urban projects; planning– planning. Thus, the motion proposes some measures to facilitate accessibility to young people, from young people to housing, and thus to open up the way of emancipation and the construction of a new life project. We, for our part, wanted to add just a couple of items that have been traded and that somehow would complement this general approach. The first had to see or have to see with promotion and regulation, to the extent that it falls, of new forms of access to housing adapted to the needs of certain social segments and that they can expand the range of possibilities of action by public administrations. We talk about experiences like urban masoveria, on which there is a particular work developed from the Barcelona City Council. And we're also talking about housing promotions with the right surface through the cessation of public land through agreements with vein or social co-operatives. The last cooperative promotions in which I had occasion to participate from the Association Federation of Veíns, for example, already do so in this regime and allow to develop, therefore, innovative experiences in matter..., in constructive aspects, with environmental respect and also recourse to ethical banking. The second issue addresses the need to accompany structural policies in the field of housing, which require, logically, continuity and an investor effort, with measures containing the price spiral of loggers. And, in this sense, the modification of the LAU, as well as the revision and removal of unjustified tax benefits from the appreciation of real estate funds and investment companies, and that they are having a great impact on the bottle of the price of the loguer, is in and of itself. And finally it is claimed that the Catalonia Habitat Agency, in coordination with the local world, makes a campaign to promote the reference price index and that it does not study its operation and the appropriate updating rhythms; that it puts this tool to the test so as to make it a useful tool in acting against the dynamics or phenomenon of abusive loguers. Finally, then, to say that we will vote, as I said, on the joint motion. Thanks to everyone for understanding and for the effort to have contributed to this text. And we hope that it has a utility and that it has a continuity, too, in the work of this Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.239.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The next one is the representative of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Sergio Sanz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.240.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members, the first one I wanted to do was to celebrate that we were going to talk about housing again in the House. The last time we talked about housing, apart from the question, was the motion for a resolution..., the motion tabled by my parliamentary group, a rather extensive motion. And that we're talking about housing here means that we have a problem that hasn't been solved yet and that we need to work very carefully to put it to rest. We come from a real estate bubble that starts at the end of the 1990s with a series of legislative changes, also with the entry of the euro and the entry of capital, and also..., this is a bad regulation, but also because urbanism and reserves have been used only as administrative financing instruments and not as a housing policy instrument. And here is a responsibility on the part of those who have ruled the Generalitat, of the joints, those who were in the stables, people who are now present as regenerators, right? I am thinking of Pedro Sánchez, who was at the Board of Directors of Caja Madrid in the time of Blesa, and people from other parties, at a time when there could be measures to avoid this speculation. And anyway, there's a change of model, a change of model that looks like there's a certain consensus, every once in a while, that we need to go to a suitable logger model, with us models and youth rules, with a stoppage of use. But, well, it's been two years, and these two years, it's been a lot of things. We, Ciutadans, from the first electoral program that we presented in 2006, have already proposed to change the model of sheltered habitat for sale, as well as the phone element, to the public park of aviable logger. And our reviews, due to our reviews, are precisely going to reinforce this model of acquitable logger. Meanwhile, all this time, there were other changes, too, right? There was a bailout from the People's Party without changing it, and we did it later, didn't we? , at the end of a few years, to look for mechanisms to incorporate empty habitats of funded entities into the social logger market. And also during this time there was a LAU, a law of urban leases, made at the center of the benches. And that's not what I'm saying, I'm not saying Ciutadans, I'm saying the Federation of Real Estate Business Associations, so I think that's worth more, you know? Because when you think about real estate companies, you don't expect them to say these things. Anyway, the candy comes back, it's been two years and there hasn't been enough change. For example, at the Hospital de Llobregat, of which the councillor, there is a promotion of secure housing for sale that will be worth 250.000_euros. I don't know who's protecting this, huh? Because when one looks at the mortgage that comes out of here, so, it's complicated. But not just that. Here's a lot of talk that we need to increase the public housing park, and what's going on? Now the Incasòl continues to come to the municipalities where there is a high accredited demand for habitats. For example, Rubí was sold some land to a large housing promoter group with an impact per square metre of 400_euros/square metre; building is worth 1,100_euros per square metre, with all inclusive; the price of the set set set of 1,500; it will come for 3,000. We've lost the opportunity to have secure sales habitat, secure tenure in public lands, and the Administration does what it does, is to say, use reserves of only as a financing instrument. This is to be done, and as it is to be done, we have presented an issue, which has been incorporated as 6 bis, which proposes a legislative amendment because these portions of the Incasól are not used by the Government to finance the Administration, but these portions that are public assets must maintain public ownership and consolidate this public housing park. Because if we don't, if we go, we won't have a public park, and without this public park we can't try to contain the prices of the habitat, because we need a large park that competes with the private and that serves to contain the prices. And we do not have a tool that is instrumental for social cohesion, equal opportunities and social ascent, because housing policies are not just housing; making structural housing policies means improving social cohesion. And, therefore, this question would require, therefore, that we look at it with detention, because if we believe that of the public housing park, what we cannot do is sell the land and decapitize the Administration, because then we will only stay with the care policies, and the care policies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.241.0	Mr. Sanz, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.242.0	...it's not enough. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.243.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Sanglas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.244.0	Thank you, President. He will advise, in any case, our parliamentary group has presented a follow-up to this motion, in which we share a few points, basically what I manifest..., we share the concern, let us say, of the generation of enough places, enough public housing to give coverage, give out to those disadvantaged collectivities, also, especially, in the area of young people. Therefore, from this point of view, we, the one we have done, have tried to spell out the text in an area of purpose, and the show is that a good part of the points that we have presented have been accepted, so please already to Mrs. Ibarra the willingness to accept these points and, therefore, we understand that we should go in this line of collaboration. Other of these items have not been accepted, but in any case, we will also go on to explain it. In the first of the papers that we have presented, we have identified the need to make a communicative campaign to the effect that the medium and small owners of the market possess. We believe that what needs to be done is to enhance existing programs, to give more knowledge of these existing programs, already existing, such as the Social Media Network, which is a network designed specifically to facilitate young people's access between divided and thirty-five years, which has put at these times more than 1,400 habitats on the market and which, therefore, let's say, was facilitating, looking for this particularly vulnerable sector, such as that of young people. The other line, which the Government has also set aside and, therefore, needs to put forward manifest and value, is the loguear endorsement, which is a program that allows protection of the owner that makes available, and that, therefore, let us say, we seem that these protection mechanisms also favour the owner. Therefore, from this point of view, the government in its conjunction has been pulling through some programs that go in this line. Some of the considerations that are presented, in the sense that people who need help with the rehabilitation of an empty habitat have to pose as a social habitat, as a social logue, tell them that, in any case, we have offered them a transaction, which has been accepted, in the sense that there are no aid intended for these empty habitats but there are some aid for the realization of housing that is basically intended for the collection of large people, for example, and some other projects, some other programs intended, basically, for the full rehabilitation of some buildings, which, because of their need, are urbanistic, as they follow. We also wanted to value the whole right... through the storm and retract right, as you point out. We think it's worth it that from this point of view it's a fact and it's getting more than just, but that in any case, too, and in this sense it was our concern that it has not been accepted, in the sense that the purchase of this price or of this habitat does not exceed a reference price, in the sense that, if not, it will cost us too much, and if we can't compete with the market price... And, therefore, from this point of view, what we are asking is that, at the time when these tempteig and retractive right-wing operations are taking place, there were some limitations that have not been accepted. Indeed, on the other hand, there has been some acceptance in the sense that you proposed, to promote those legislative changes, that in those places, in areas of strong demand accredited, the totality of the park was destined to lodge. We think it should not be the formula, we think it should be combinable. So, in this sense, what we are proposing is that, in a majority way, it was intended to meet but not in its totality, and that we believe that the acceptance of this issue is important because it went in this line. For what he does to the papers or for what he does to the points you plant for the thirty-five year old, we have not been able to give support. We have put forward some ideas because it seemed to us that it was important, too, to combine it with the element of social emergence. We think it's supposed to be combinable. We believe that we, too, were willing to accept the points you set for us, but it must be borne in mind that there is all this social emergence and, therefore, this must be the priority element. No need to lay down, too, bag. And, in fact – in fact – it is, and in this sense, the last point, the last point that we have presented was in this sense that, in the call for public aid for the payment of the lloger, there are specific bases for young people under thirty-five years of age. In this sense, we also want to put in value that of the 94_million destined for the year 2016, 22_million euros went to this collection of young people in order to be able to face the payments of the loguer. So, let's just say, from this point of view, this thing that we've presented and that we've ended up trading, it's also seemed important and interesting to infer, and we think the government is also working hard in this young people's area. And what we would like to denounce once more is that from the year 2009, or from the year 2009, the Government of the State has reduced to half its contributions to social housing programs and, therefore, from this point of view, we want to denounce once more the economic obligation in which the Government of the State supports us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.245.0	Mr. Blood, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.246.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.247.0	The words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.248.0	Yes, President. Counsellor, Members, we welcome the spirit of the motion put forward. It is true that more public housing is needed in the analysis and, therefore, it is true that we have a poor social housing park in Catalonia, and we have to do an analysis of why. Here there are some groups, almost all of them, that once upon a time they swell their mouths to talk about the real estate bubble, to always blame the private sector, but it is true that almost all groups have ruled alone or in coalition in many municipalities. And while that real estate bubble was growing well, its municipalities were feeding on the public arks with their building licenses and their IBIs, and then there were no complaints. Therefore, blame must be shared here, not only from the private sector but also from the public. And it is true that we have, as I said before, a problem of housing and protection. There are things that have not been done well, you have to make a change of mindset. Formulas must be sought – formulas – to try to acquire more housing; one of them is, for example, the treatment done by the Administration of its housing park. We have, for example, protective housing in Mataró, Hospitalet and other illegally occupied municipalities and that if they are vacated they could be given legally to people who need them, and these issues have been overtaken for years. Or, for example, to encourage agreements with financial institutions, which possibly the first to do so was our group president, Xavier García Albiol, in Badalona when he was mayor of that city, who many criticized him and now many administrations are following his example. Or also the purchase and rehabilitation of empty dwellings. Therefore, here are several formulas to try to grow that public housing park that we need. On the motion, I say that we appreciate it positively, but it is true, some very specific point we will vote against; half, abstention; the other half we will practically vote in favour. Because it's true, well, it's a socialist proposition, isn't it? , socialist proposals, and of course, therefore, perhaps some things we cannot vote for. It is true that this social democratic concept, therefore, increases with the initiatives presented by Ciutadans, which goes well to defend themselves ideologically and in this motion, so they do, do they not? And they also make some over-interventionist proposal in what the market is. But it is true that I remain in the general spirit of the motion. And it is that in the end we try among all, with different proposals, to increase the social housing park, which I believe is necessary. And I do find that I lack a proposal, which is to help change my mindset. The change of mindset. It is true that, when you do a survey, citizens prefer the figure of buying, selling a protective floor, and that it has been the figure that has been most used by all administrations. That's why much of this housing park in Catalonia has been lost. Many municipalities have used it, starting with the City of Barcelona, where it sold a large part of that protective housing, and that is why it is necessary to help, inform and make campaigns of that change of mindset. And I think that in the end the direction, and we agree that it's the right one, I think it's the right one, which is to encourage social rental, social rental housing. And in this we agree, and that is why I was commenting that I positively value the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.249.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.250.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillors, the truth is that I followed with some special attention the intervention of Mrs Rosa Maria Ibarra at her inquiry, for two reasons: one, so as not to repeat in all those things that she could say and that also in my inquiry she could have a place, and the other, precisely, to repeat the times that she worked and put emphasis on everything that concerns us much and that unfortunately suffers much more, that is access to housing. The deputy staged two scenes: one, of the price control of the logger, and the enlargement or the need to enlarge the park from the tanteig and retraction, among other proposals. The motion that is presented at the end, while containing proposals of all interesting and important, we believe, does not cease to be a motion of palliative measures, in the way of insisting on addressing more the actions that are already making, some, than not to situate, we think, the access to housing in the necessary political framework and of which it makes good note in the precisely part of the presentation, but not of resolution. The young woman, as she has remained, has a good dose of political realism, of touching from little to little and of knowing who are the correlations of forces in this Parliament, who are the ones who are and give what they give. Now, we can't have other reasons that we can tell them to bother us, to bother us in some way, and it's the need to throw a young man in front of a young man as he is, establishing a diversity of majorities that support concrete points of the young man, but that at last there is no real or global compromise with the intentions that motivate the same young man. As shown, the third point is to say, where it is suppressed, because it is asked by the PP, therefore, to add it « without enabling title, when the law approved for this Parliament, on 4/2016, says it more textually than seven times. And we're concerned, that's why, far from allowing answers or solutions to the issue of housing, what we believe is creating a false image of unity, of the consent of all the parliamentary groups of this chamber to the diagnosis of the problem of access to housing. And it distorts, if it doesn't deceive and we deceive ourselves before the real causes, that they don't only make it difficult for a real way out of the problem, but that, as we said the other day, and we agree with many, appear and come out with intense new intensity and dramatize still more the reality of housing need. And it raises doubts as to whether the motion, therefore, that we are presenting or dealing with brings concrete answers, or not, to housing problems. We will give support to most points of the young man, some already approved in committee, as has been said, and we will abstain in others and others we will vote otherwise. In some, we will abstain because we think that they strongly condition government action, and we think that the government has the right to act as a government and have room for manoeuvre to act as a government. In others we will vote that we do not, because we understand, for example, that age segmentation is not paramount in a reality where economic and social conditions are so important. Or we'll vote too... or we'll abstain in others where 25 percent limits are set at the lloger park, which we don't agree with. At the presentation of your motto, you say: "You can use enough resources to create a large enough public housing park because no one has difficulty accessing it. And we ask ourselves: "Dona, how is it that these wills do not find them, for example, eh? Where does your political group have responsibilities? In the case of Barcelona's Metropolitan Area, in its urban planning plan there is no housing policy – no housing policy – in the line that you propose to the young person. In the Hospitallet, it was also said here, a municipality defined as the area of strong and accredited residential demand, you are clinging to the defense of an urban master plan that does not have, for us, any correspondence with the intentions that you describe in the motion. Neither are the great beneficiaries of finance, which in this case are the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, the large municipalities and the same parliament, and, in turn, are very much focused on the Generality, when precisely we all know that in financing terms it is poor, plundered and, moreover, above all, intervened. That is to say, we think, we said the other day, that in order to be able to have a serious housing policy in order to have adequate premises and a preventive and indefatigable request, which is only adequate, and that is why it must be financed. And to get finance, to get alone, we need sovereignty. These are political intentions that we can only address, we think, from the sobriety. And sobriety, today, let's play it in the referendum fight, and it's not a monotheme, huh? – and it is not a monotheme – and in this fight we would like to see all those political forces defending the right to housing. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.251.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Rosa Maria Ibarra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.252.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Villagrasa... it's a socialist proposal. It's what he has, being socialist, it's what he is. In any case, on the papers presented, another time to reiterate our thanks. We have practically coincided in the conjunction with Catalonia Yes it is Pot ; also, in good part, with Ciutadans. To tell them that we also agree on the issue that urban planning for a long time has served to finance public administrations, assemblies. Clearly, we can't do that to you; basically, because at that time they didn't have a mayor at the assembly and now they don't have him either. In the band of this, to Mr. Marc Sanglas: you have been purposed, we thank him for his willingness to come to terms. At the same time, on the issue of obtaining housing, at the price that they raise from the housing of promotions already existing for tanteig and retraction, they proposed to us, therefore, that these prices were under the special module of official protection. Clearly, we understand that this restricts the possibility of buying, because no, let's just say, there's... there's limited, the offer there is of these habitats. And, therefore, if what we want is to have a public park of habitat large enough, we need to go and look for more habitat, which the Incasól already does; it does not buy only with special price, say so, but it does in general as well. And, as for Mr. Garriga, we obviously plant two actions: one, controlling the price of the loguer, which is also or is above all, under our point of view, if we have a sufficiently large public park, which will lower the price of the free market as well. But, in addition, we are setting up a series of legislative changes that give us a chance to look at the issue of housing from a much broader perspective, not just from these concrete and timely actions to tackle the issue. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I don't have time; therefore, I can hardly answer everything that he told us, but in any way, when you referred to some meetings or to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, tell him that competence...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.253.0	Mrs. Ibarra, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.254.0	... of housing is of the Generalitat, and not of the joints. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.255.0	The debate is over, we call for a vote – thank you, Mrs. Ibarra. Mr. Sanglas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.256.0	To ask for separate votes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.257.0	In what points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.258.0	We would like to vote separately on point 4, point 6a, point 7a, points 8, 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.259.0	Can they vote together?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.260.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.261.0	Okay. Mr. Sanz, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.262.0	We could vote together on points 9 and 10 separately, but it's not left; it's left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.263.0	9 and 10 together. The rest should be separated.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.264.0	Yes, thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.265.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.266.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...some of the points, we can't vote together. I think it'd be better to do it one by one, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.267.0	No, no, I have said that we will only vote together 9 and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.268.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.269.0	It's left, separately. Okay?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.270.0	Perfect. Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.271.0	Yes, Mr. Garriga, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.272.0	For a separate vote on points 4, 7, 8, 9 and 10. For our part, we can group the 4th and the 7th; and the 8, 9 and 10th, into another group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.273.0	Can you vote together on the 4th and 7th?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.274.0	Yeah, yeah. For us, yes. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.275.0	Don't you? [[Pause.]] No, no, And 8th, 9th and 10th seems to me neither, because Mr. Fernández has already told me that only 9th and 10th. Therefore, we will have to vote on 4, 6a, 7, 7a and 8 separately, and 9i on 10 together. And after the rest of the young man. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 50 votes to 61, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 6a point. The vote begins. Point 6 bis was rejected by 57 votes to 61, with 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been approved by 120 votes to 7, with 7 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 7a point. The vote begins. Point 7a was rejected by 57 votes to 70, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number eight. The vote begins. Point 8_has been rejected by 60 votes in favour, 67 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote together on points 9 and 10. The vote begins. Points 9 and 10 were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 68 against and 34 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Housing Committee was approved by 127 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Some applause.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into Islamophobia]] [[302-00176/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for an inquiry to the Government on Islamophobia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it, Mr. Benet Salellas has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] And, as always, they know they're asking them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue with the session. Thank you. [[Pause.]] Mr. Salellas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.276.0	All right, thank you, President. Counselors, counselor, deputies and deputies, well, I will not reproduce everything we have already set out on our concept and on the perspective with which we approach the question of Islamophobia, which we have already raised in our inquiry. And to point out only three very, very concrete points, in some ways also in the sight of some of the points that have been made, and also in order to concretize something that has not just been heard, right? , in our inquiry. What I also want to say from the outset is that we maintain, despite the fact that it was written on behalf of the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, the term "Odi when we refer to the question of Islamophobia, and therefore we talk about the situations of hatred and discrimination against Muslim religion or those people who are considered Muslims, because this is the concept, let us say it to the us, because this is the concept that is foreseen when it comes to speech of hatred and the concept that is foreseen when it comes to hate crimes. And that's what we're talking about, and we're not talking about anything else, and so it's absolutely essential to keep this concept when we define the term "Islamics." It is not a debate, which we have raised, about religions; obviously we have a starting point in the religious question, but we have spoken that we understand this debate above all as a question of construction of alterity, of exclusion on the part of society on the part of religious criteria, isn't it? , in a construction between us and them, between east and west, that what it does is to end up with discrimination against people who believe in a certain way or who are perceived by this society as they believe in a certain way, in that conception of Islam as something unique, denied and insimitable by Western societies. Above all, what we want to expose from the perspective of our inquiry, and today also of our motion, is the need to hear this collection as a heterogeneous collection, a collection with positive elements, and a constantly changing and clearly capable collection, therefore, of dialogue with the group of people living in this country and, therefore, of working hard against exclusion, against discrimination and against racism. This debate has only felt not if we plant it in an abstract way, but if we plant it from a logic of power mechanisms, which are the ones that generate and allow discrimination. That's why we can't accept some of the points that have been raised when we think that we pose at the side of Islamophobia the Christianphobia, because from an optics of Catalonia today, the year 2017, so, it's..., it sounds a little rotten that we plant that the Catholic religion is in a situation of discrimination, when precisely what is found in Catalonia today is in a situation of power. We all know, therefore, the power of Opus Dei, infiltrated in institutions, in some as important as the judiciary or the prosecution; the privileges of the concerted school, or even all the fiscal privileges of what Catholic Church enjoys by mediating the covenants with the Vatican. Therefore, the Christianphobia in other contexts, at other times may have felt, but not in the logic in which we raised the debate on discrimination from the perspective of Islamophobia. And the third of the questions we wanted to put on the table was the debate on secularism. Obviously, we did not introduce the question of secularism to the institutions, because it is a question that we obviously assumed; that we finally introduced it through some of the items that have been made from the parliamentary left. But we did, too, didn't we? , because, as some have warned, there is also a risk of a certain secular phonationalism. It is to say, when secularism, beyond this statement that the institutions, therefore, must not take part in particular belief and that they must not pursue anyone for their beliefs..., in some countries around us there is the risk that it is produced, from the defense of secularism, the persecution of certain religious beliefs, or certain persons identified with this religious belief. Therefore, we understand this secularism, effectively, as a logic of neutrality of the State, and that is why we have introduced it, but we never hear it as a mechanism of criminalization of other religions or other thoughts, which ended up converting this secularism into a minas, precisely, of the religion of the State. And we end up with an appointment that on other occasions has evoked the company Carles Riera already from this Faristol, is the reference to the gentle and the three savors of Ramon Llull. Surely this episode, or this story that Ramon Llull explains, and the position of dialectics and critical dialectics that I kept the gentle one with the three religions is the bet that we do, from a perspective of society with secular institutions, but above all from a democratic perspective, inclusive and without discrimination. When we talk about anti-fitism today, we've come up with this prospect of avoiding scenes of discrimination, hate and por, which we know at other times have led to great disasters. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.277.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Further to defend the papers presented, has the word Mr Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.278.0	Thank you, President. Islamophobia is racism; ethnic racism, religious racism and cultural racism. In the Alcorà, the holy book for Muslims, when it comes to gihad, there is obviously an acceptance that it is that of the holy war. And our story is full of episodes in which, unfortunately, we have experienced this interpretation of the Alcorà. But it is also true that the Alcorà, when speaking of the Gihad, also speaks of a doctrine of personal superiority and better of being human. And the two things are indeed. And they can find in the world Muslim religion doctrine in one sense and in another. But when we talk about gihadism we always make a read of the Alcorà; a reading that makes it part of the Muslim world, but another part of the Muslim world rejects and condemns it. And, therefore, we should be clear about that. In fact, in the name of the Bible, a respectable book in our society, there have also been abuses of everything; I would say that still today they are committed. In fact, if Western society were to come, only through Opus Dei's precepts could anyone think that this is a sloppy and sectarian view of what we are. And it's true. In fact, we also have in our history – in our history – inquisition, expulsion of Jews and Moriscs, Croats. I, in fact, in recent times, both to the Balkan war and to the military occupations of Syria, Afghanistan, Iraq or Libya, we could find sectarianism, cultural and religious intransigence of the Western world to Muslim culture and religion. And that's all true. But, therefore, I want to ask you a question: why do we accept as friends the monarchies of Golf, full of corruption, masculinism and deep religious integrity? They know why; why behind the concept is Islamophobic there is usually a class bias, and they are different from those who come in with either private or private flights, and the poor people who die in our March or who go to our borders. They believe in the same god, but some are rich and others are poor. And when we talk about terrorists or Moors, we usually talk about the poor, we don't talk about the rich; even though we know that these rich people today finance a good part of the terrorist networks that attack us. Therefore, Saudi Arabia's sheiks, with whom the bourbons have such a good relationship, are, without a doubt, worthy leaders with a culture of their own. This is the hypocrisy that appears when we make this debate. Therefore, we must remember that Catalonia has a rich history of two centuries of Muslim presence that have helped enrich our language, our customs and in general our culture, and that Arabic language and religion and Muslim culture are also part of this country. Today, in fact, the Muslim community that may be listening to us today is a peaceful and working community, essential for building this today's Catalonia and the Catalonia of the future, which are us and old Catalans, but who live among us. And when we talk about a people's sun, that old phrase that these days sometimes we remember to talk about this issue that so much concerns us, we also need to talk and we need to think about them. Thank you very much. We voted in favour, of course. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.279.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.280.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Councillor, MPs and MPs, well, first of all, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has presented a series of papers to the motion presented by the CUP on Islamophobia, which have all been incorporated, in one way or another, practically literally in its vast majority and in some case in a transactional way. And so, let's just say, we are satisfied with the agreements that we have reached with the initiative group, and we have announced since then that we share it and will vote for it. I would just like to make some clarifications about the text and then some general consideration. First of all, and while we are voting for it, we do not just share that Islamophobia is strictly a racist phenomenon, and not because we can't agree with the type of mechanism that operates, let's say, as a mechanism of discrimination, that it has some similarities with discrimination of racist type, but because we understand that Islam is a religion that today is all kinds of ethnicities on the planet. And, of course, let's just say, even in areas where you're majority, there's an absolute ethnic diversity. And, therefore, Islamophobia is, let's say, the combination of prejudices, actions, including institutional structures that have to do with por, hatred, or discrimination, effectively, to persons who profess this religion, or who, for their provenance, may be suspected of having professed or professed this religion or creeds. This is a first consideration. After that, we have not just heard that a reference to anti-Semitism at the side of the plan is incorporated into point 1.1, which is called for fighting Islamophobia. Not because we do not agree, that we obviously are, that we need to develop from the Catalan institutions plans to fight anti-Semitism, but because we understand that this was a motion specifically referring to a very concrete problem that has occurred in Europe, and Catalonia is no exception, and that it deserves special attention from our institutions. Why, at the expense of anti-Semitism we could have put anti-Ziganism there too, because it is also an issue that runs all over Europe, right? , discrimination, policies of discrimination against Roma persons. And, therefore, I think that if we put them all together, we would actually have to look for all of them and not just these two. But, well, in any case, we already did, we are, in general terms, okay, and it seems to us that it is more opportune that we give a serious reflection on what is going on together on our continent. We have said this on more than one occasion in this Faristol, but it is that if one combines the policies in the matter of asylum and refuges of which we speak in an estona, the policies in the matter of migrations of which we speak in an estona, with the line of identity, xenophobia in general terms, racism and Islamophobia, for example, but also a resurgence of anti-Semitism, as is happening, for example, in France, because of the great scandal of the important Jewish community which is very busy in France..., if we combine all this, indeed, the panorama of our continent is desolating and goes into profound contradiction with all the values which the same European Union reflects in its founding letter and practically all the texts that have existed in the texts. Therefore, I believe that a concerted action by the institutions and European citizens to preserve our climate of coexistence, of cohesion that I believe we have gained progressively since the time of the Illustration, the French Revolution, will, in effect, etc. with a clear separation between questions relating to confessions and questions relating to the governance of the public thing. Therefore, effectively, yes, with a commitment of laity of the institutions, that we do not understand that it can be..., it would be an incredible oxymoron a religion of state, but we understand that it is a commitment to the preservation of neutrality, and therefore the most authentic struggle for freedom of conscience. And this, let me tell the company and company of the CUP, at a different rate from what they were getting on the other day, that's what we'll find on the street and on the side.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.281.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. The words "Mrs. Magda Casamitjana", of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí, are followed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.282.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, Counselor..., Director General – now I'll say it right, huh? – of Religious Afers, very welcome. Look... thanks to Congressman Salellas for the opportunity to participate in the motion and incorporate some elements into it. There have been eight built-in items, and I therefore believe that what we do in this place is above all to add to what we see as reality and not a feeling. And, therefore, we thank him very much for having accepted them. I start with a few words from the honourable Member on the day of the inquiry, who said – and I want to make it very clear – : "Mr.Deputy, Catalonia is a friendly country, where people of different origins, processes, cultures, traditions and also different creeds live together. Catalan society is different, open and tolerant. In Catalonia we live with citizens of up to thirteen different religious denominations, this is our reality and this is our coexistence, mostly – and I want to say mostly – harmonious and civic. Despite everything I have said, we will never forget that we will always be alert and working to eradicate any type of discriminatory practice. That's the end of the date. Therefore, Catalonia is a peaceful, living country. With these words, counsel, we are absolutely in agreement. And it seems to me that this is the starting point of this young man. Catalonia currently counts with Muslim communities constituted for three generations, two of them hidden in our house, his house. It is clear that Islam is more of Catalonia's cultural and religious diversity. But terrorist attacks on Europe and the world must not confuse anyone. And we have to do what we can because no one is confused. Education and culture is what we have to do to decant this balance of an adverse and uncertain feeling, that what we have to do is fight it. We would like to make clear here today, in the Parliament of Catalonia, the essential role that is to be played by the assemblies of Catalonia, from the smallest to the largest; one of the main challenges of the assemblies, which face the administrations today, is to guarantee the rights of all citizens and citizens; to thank and congratulate the task that is to be played by the constituents who are, they are, at first line, twenty-four hours of the day, especially, and always, on the subject that we are dealing with today. We also have Catalonia out of our country's solidarity experiment, with AMPA working all day on diversity, not only in religious beliefs, but also with different people. Very happy, and thank God we also have associations and cohabitation networks in our country. And, in addition, we are very grateful to the same Muslim communities, destined for a better knowledge of their Islamic religion every day in Catalonia, of the connection of this community to their life. This spirit helps a lot to consolidate the country we want. You have spoken of many aspects of the day-to-day coexistence, but not all of them, honourable Member, only a few. A different Catalonia is much more than four points that you put here, and we may not have to do another to talk about what happens to the cementers, what happens to the escorts, what happens to the schools when children and children have to leave because their holidays do not coincide with ours, what happens to children who go to school every day and suddenly disappear one and another, what happens when children say we want to be like you. Therefore, there are many more things we need to do. And, therefore, we appreciate your motion, but we may not simplify it so much. We have not reached a possible compromise for salvation; it has not been possible, and therefore, at this point, we will abstain. From the Teaching Department we want to reaffirm that no menus offered is a religious menu, no menus. All students always have an option from the menu that fits the type of food that, for what it is, they can eat, and that there is no lack of respect for cultural and religious diversity in our centers. For what he does to the school curriculum, I told you, we'll vote against it. Catalonia is and must be a network of cities where all people feel free and dignified. And the moment we see that something can peril the Administration, we must be alert. My house is your home, our house is your home; we build it among all, with the utmost respect, justice, freedom and dignity. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.283.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Casamitjana. To fix his position, Mr Matías Alonso, of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.284.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselors, ladies and gentlemen, well, I will not go into appreciation of the quality of life or democratic quality of Muslim countries, in which the state is based on Islamic law, in which the sharia is the main source of the right, even the only source of the right. I want to limit myself to the content of this motion and the opportunity to debate it in the terms in which it is placed in this Ple. Of course, the proposed group, the CUP - Crida Constituent, the current government's main partner for independence, has every right to present the subsequent inquiries and motions that you consider relevant. Therefore, this debate is absolutely legitimate and from the regulatory point of view totally opportune. But under the defense that is made of a concrete religion and the supposed fóbia of Catalan society against this religion; not because it is not legitimate to make this defense, under the pretext that it does not make days, at the beginning of this month of July, a representative of the political group that presents this young man, governor of the district of Ciutat Vella, to the city of Barcelona, demanded the forced expropriation of the cathedral, an action that I do not know well if titlar of Christianphobia. In any case, I would like to recall that the Spanish Constitution in force since 1978 guarantees in its article 16 the right to freedom of religion and worship of individuals and communities without any limitation in manifestations that are necessary for the maintenance of public order protected by law. The same article 16 makes it clear that no confession will have a state character; the public authorities will take into account the religious beliefs of the Spanish society and maintain the consequent relations of cooperation with Catholic Church and other denominations. Let's go to the police station. Are there cases of Islamophobia in Catalonia? Of course I do. Can we say that Catalan society is Islamophobic? I'd say no. Spanish and, therefore, Catalonia is solid; Spanish and, therefore, Catalans are not xenophobic, racist or sectarian. Are there cases of xenophobia, racism, sectarianism, ideas-based and religious beliefs? Yeah. We have to work and work every day to get them eradicated to the maximum. The Spanish State has a cooperation agreement with the Islamic Commission of Spain since 1992; Law 26/92 of 10 November solemnizes this agreement. There is no discrimination in Spain because of religious beliefs. The fundamental right of religious freedom is fully in force and the defence of our Constitution and all our democratic order. It is a priority to avoid the risk of radicalization of people who can be manipulated by ideological distortions based on religion, it is a priority. We do not think it is appropriate to deny the risk of Gihadist radicalization. Nor would I speak of the climate of por, nor much less hatred of Muslims, beyond specific situations. We must continue to work on inclusive policies that allow integration and assimilation of any ethnic or religious group. We have to keep working. For what it does at the risk of radicalization, from the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans we believe that it is necessary to follow the best practices of our environment. And here I want to quote the case of Mechelen, the city of Malines, in Belgium, a city where his mayor, Mr. Bart Somers, has been able to integrate and assimilate Muslims and prevent its radicalization. We had a chance to listen to him a few weeks ago. June 8th took part in the cycle "What's going on in the world? How are European societies facing Gihadist terrorism? , organized in Barcelona for the Cidob, one of the main Spanish think tanks, perhaps the main one. And Liberal Progressive Bart Somers, current ALDE Group Chair of the Committee of the Regions, explained this very clearly to all of us who attended it. Certainly, there were no other Members or representatives of a political group than I myself, or just from the municipal area of Barcelona. Bart Somers gave us the keys to success to avoid radicalization, to defend the fundamental rights of Muslims, to avoid Islamophobia and to achieve the integration and cultural assimilation of minorities. These keys, based on the identity that brings us the same condition of citizenship in equality of rights and freedoms and in force and respect for the state of right, can be summed up in two sentences: "We have to invest in things that bind us, not in things that separate us. We all have to integrate; we don't have to ask ourselves what they have to do, but what we can do among all of us. Apply it, pose us there. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.285.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. The words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.286.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, well, this is an interesting and complex debate, and that is why I want to congratulate Congresswoman Magda Casamitjana and Congressman Matías Alonso for their interventions, which are very rich in materials. The great Italian politician Giovanni Sartori said that pluralism and multiculturalism are two antithetical concepts, which are negating one another: pluralism is reciprocal recognition; multiculturalism, in change, is cultural secession, is creating cultural tribes; pluralism is promoting the open and democratic city, enriched by multiple relevance; multiculturalism is subsidizing the ghetto. And here we find this CUP guy. And like the open city, democracy and freedom are fragile, they have to take care of themselves. We will vote 'no' and put our faces in the debate of ideas. This is not a pluralist movement, because it reinforces a community idea that tends to lock, that does not require any reciprocity and that, moreover, wants to eliminate tools from the fight against terrorism. We share that Islam is a complex and plural reality. Beyond the great division between Sunnis and Shiites, we find drawings and drawings of Muslim visions, from the most open to the most closed, as said, for example, the deputy Nuet. Therefore, it is so false to say that all visions of Islam are perilous or violent as to say that no one is. And that's why we need a serious debate and I'll be on which types of Islam are good for a modern society and which are not. We, the popular, are in favour of equality and fighting against everything – all – type of discrimination. And, in fact, Spain has legal powers in the fight against hate crimes. In fact, its alarmism, which helps to foster the resentment that then feeds Islamism, did not stand by. Hate crimes fell in Spain in the past year; hate crime incidents for religious beliefs fell more than 32 per cent last year, and racists fell more than 17 per cent. It's public data that I don't know if they've bothered to look for the Interior Ministry. It's legalized and there's work on the part of all the administrations. And like the game, and unlike others, we, the popular, don't look for exotic photos that look good in front of the gallery. The People's Party does not make policies for collections or policies of folk segregation; it makes policies for the society's conjunction and for real cohesion. We bet on real policies against discrimination and in favour of equality: equal rights and equal rights. Fóbies are a reprehensible reality against which we must fight all folds, but many times the speeches of political correction are a way of turning into unpunished ideologies or certain behaviors that tempt against constitutional principles, such as equality between women and men, and that can also lead to violence or terrorism. This is why I want to make from here a recognition of the security forces and bodies in Catalonia, those people who are playing their lives to guarantee our lives, who are playing their lives to guarantee the safety and freedom of all citizens. You, the CUP's lords, say they don't call radicalization detection protocols because there are few times, give the inquiry. Do you know how many terrorist cells have disarticulated in Spain and especially in Catalonia? They never wondered what there might be in our country – and let's touch this because there is no more – because there are protocols, because we have one of the best police and one of the best intelligence services in the world? There are Islamist centers that are a peril, and there is salafism financed from other countries that want to create social leaders that boost a non-democratic vision of Islam. And we must continue to work to protect the democrat Muslims from extremists; I repeat: we must work to protect the democrat Muslims from extremists. We must fight against all kinds of discrimination for reasons of religion, but we must also say very clearly that not one euro for those who do not respect equality between women and men, not one euro for those who want to end our democratic values, not one euro for the enemies of freedom. It has cost us a lot to achieve an open and modern society as if to put it at risk because of a poorly understood political correction or an indefensible alliance of radicalism – Islamist and extreme left. She is curious, and has said, this double moral of a certain extreme left: they do not want Islamic radicalism to be investigated and they want to carry the cathedral of Barcelona, desecrate the Moreneta and try to shut up members of the Catholic Church. [[Some applause.]] When the UPC stands before a miracle, you see the face of hypocrisy: hate speech against Christians and immunity from Islamic radicalism. Out of curiosity: will they also make their campaigns for sexual freedom in mosques? [[Some applause.]] Giovanni Sartori said, the strength of this antipluralist multiculturalism is fostered in a strange alliance, in some strange bed companies. In defense of freedom, equality and democracy, not a step backwards. For a plural and united society, we shall vote 'no'. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.287.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.288.0	Well, thank you, President. I wanted to start by saying something that I haven't said before, which is to thank Deputy Nuet, Pedret and Casamitjana for their papers. I don't know if I said it... I mean, I didn't mention it, but I think the contribution the three groups have made, so it has improved the final result of the young man, and I think, therefore, that what will be approved today is much more interesting from this joint perspective than from the initial that we set up as CUP. Also to say that to the discussion and approval of the full law against all forms of hatred and discrimination, that we have to deal with it jointly with the law against discrimination that is already practically in phase of coming out in ponència, therefore, we will also have an opportunity to generate more instruments of struggle against hatred, against discrimination, that in some ways we have felt here in this hemisphere. That is to say, precisely some of the questions that we have denounced in our motion and in our inquiry have come out into the light in some of the speeches that have occurred here, for example, that we need to work hard on this issue. To say only to MP Milián, for a question of honor to the truth, that we have studied the data a lot, and that he can go to the annual memory of the prosecution, of the Special Service of Odi Crimes of the Provincial Prosecutor's Office of Barcelona and will prove that precisely what the memory says is that later this year they have increased the cases of hate crimes, and it speaks of an increase of one hundred and twenty procedures this year in Barcelona, eh? And, therefore, review your data; you, who are also in the Madrid government, have them very much at hand. There has also been talk here of cultural assimilation by some of the groups. A term that sets the hen's skin, no longer referring to Muslims [[applause]] , us, of cultural assimilation, linguistics or of the type that follows, not one, neither here nor in place. And I will end up on the supposed Christianphobia, Miri, Mr.Milian, we at the UPC are proud of all the Christian and Catholic people we have. With a single difference: we would be with Casaldàliga, and you, as always, with Opus Dei. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.289.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. After the debate, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.290.0	To ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.291.0	What's the point?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.292.0	From the letter to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.293.0	The letter to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.294.0	The letter to points 3, 4, 5, 6 and 7. And points 4, 5, 6 and 7 can be voted together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.295.0	4, 5, 6 and 7 may vote together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.296.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.297.0	Mr. Alonso, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.298.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.299.0	What's the point? How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.300.0	Separate vote from points a, b, 3, 4, 6 and 7, which we could also vote together; point 9, without including there either 9 bis or 9 ter, logically.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.301.0	The 9th – the 9th.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.302.0	Only what is marked as 9, and 10.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.303.0	See, you told me, Mr. Alonso, that points 4, 6 and 7 could be voted together? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 4, 5, 6 and 7, no; only 4, 6 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.304.0	Four, six and seven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.305.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.306.0	Together for the Yes has requested 4, 5, 6 and 7...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.307.0	But we'll take the 5– we'll take the 5.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.308.0	The 5th should vote separately.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.309.0	We'll take the 5– we'll take the 5. All right, then. We will begin with separate votes and then vote on the rest of the motion. Why, points 9 and 10 could be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] All right, then. We're voting..., we're starting the vote by voting point a. The vote begins. The vote was approved by 59 votes to 40, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point b. The vote begins. Point b was approved by 81 votes to 9, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 32 votes to 10, with 83 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been rejected by 32 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been rejected by 57 votes in favour, 69 finds and no abstentions. We will continue to vote jointly on points 6 and 7. The vote begins. Points 6 and 7 were rejected by 32 votes to 69, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 9 and 10. The vote begins. Points 9 and 10 were approved by 91 votes to 9, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Movement on Islamophobia was approved by 116 votes in favour, 9 against and 1 abstention. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into sexual abuse and health]] [[302-00175/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following motion for a question to the Government on sexual abuse and salvation presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot. To expose it has the word Ms Gemma Lienas. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Lienas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.310.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, friends and friends who accompanied us, this young man puts emphasis on the approach of sexual rapes from the Department of Health. To hear the motion it is necessary to remember a few questions, even at risk of seeming repetitive. First, that the main victims of sexual violence are women, 90_percent of victims are, and creatures, one_of_five have been sexually assaulted; that the majority of aggressors are men, 90_per_cent; that this male conduct is not biologic, but is based on a social system, patriarchy, which advocates male domination, female subordination, and uses sexual violence as a weapon, as a form of control and submissiveness, and that, moreover, it is a silent violence for which we are obliged and forced to look at it face to face and not to take it away, because if we do not favor the impunity of the aggressors. I also want to remind you that the approach of the Salut – and also of other circles – has often been re-victimized, because they serve masculinist criteria in the appraisals, because they question the truthfulness of the victim and this is due to institutional violence. [[Some applause.]] The Council of Europe urges us to incorporate this violence into the law of equal treatment and non-discrimination that we are currently working on. As in Parliament, we need to implement measures so that victims are treated as victims that they are, without prejudice and without being examined in the light of stereotypes and also because they are treated at any point in the territory. This is why we ask for units of diagnostics and treatment in hospitals in Catalonia that are at the disposal of all the territories, multi-disciplinary units, units with a gender perspective, units coordinated with primary care services, and that the reports and evaluations of the primary are kept in mind. In fact, our young lady does not ask anything that is not already written to our laws. We have been especially critical with UFAM, which together with Can Ruti diagnoses child sexual abuse. Supposedly he should diagnose the creature, but often he does it over the seas, which is out of his expertise. Diagnoses them with SAP. SAP is parental alienation syndrome, or with any of its terminological variants, for example, "morbid concern. SAP is a syndrome that supposedly means that a parent, usually the mother, manipulates the creature to turn it against the other parent, usually the father. According to the international medical community, this is a syndrome that doesn't exist, that doesn't have scientific evidence, that it's invented, and, besides, it's a syndrome or it's an invented theory that violates people's rights. For these two reasons we want to banish the SAP of the diagnostic categories. UFAM, which uses this syndrome very often, also fails to complete Article 7 of the Law on the Rights and Opportunities of Infants and Young People, because it says..., because Article 7 of this Law says that infants and young people must be listened to, and often UFAM does not listen to them when it considers that the seas have manipulated them. It also violates the rights of children when it forces them to be present in an interview where the mother talks about the abuses they have suffered, and more if there is the alleged abuser. These and other reasons lead us to question many diagnostics carried out for UFAM, so we ask for the revision of the diagnostic to petition the seas, legal guardians or even the same creatures or young people. We believe, as Councillor Comín thought fifteen days ago, that the young lady is on the line to be approved, because it is nothing more than an act of justice for victims of sexual violence of which you, Members and Members of Parliament, often abhorrence. And I want to finish this intervention on behalf of women, children and young people, with a motto that is March 8 that expresses a desire of all, says: "From way home... – and I add: coming back from school or going to work or coming back from a night party –, "from way home I want to be free, not brave. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.311.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Then, in order to defend the papers presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word "Assumpta Escarp".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.312.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, in the first place, would like to thank the MP, Gemma Lienas, for presenting the motion, because she defined it very well: it has to be talked about. It has to be talked about because the best way is to visualize this sexual violence, especially against women and infants. The young man wants to make a move from the perspective most of the field of salvation; sometimes it is difficult to separate it, and some of the items we have presented were trying to fill as much as possible. It's been hard for us to reach some agreements – it's been hard for us – because the prospects... I think we all have a common goal, but sometimes the prospects are a little different. But I want to value and put it in value, just like the Member, the effort to collect it because it's taken forward. I seem to have been told by the counselor on the day of the interview: "It's a sacra-deia –" sometimes stuck that the system doesn't know, and I add that many times it doesn't know or recognize, nor does it recognize the anguish and everything that it generates around it. So we had an obligation to throw it away. It is a multifactorial problem, that is to say, there are many departments of the Generality that intervene there, everyone has their role and we have the framework protocol for a coordinated intervention against violence that also inspires the whole movement, but the truth is that we lack resources, training, leadership, work in the network and above all, perhaps, agile coordination mechanisms, which is one of the things that have been put on the table. There are no experts; I am convinced that there are many trained people, but we must not form much more, and above all there is a great territorial injustice, more quickly I would define it as a void in the territory. So, somehow, that's what you've been trying to tackle since the morning. For me there is the spring of the bone, that of the creation of the..., well, we give hospital units, integral multidisciplinary teams, health specialists and social workers who, distributed in the territory, allow quick visits, apart from immediate attention, therefore, a first visit from the forty-eight hour mark and, therefore, that, where you are, you can have continuous and especially quick attention, which is what we give. Having these units or multidisciplinary teams means working in the network, not only the double network of adults, infants or young people, but also a coordinated network and leadership of a person, as asked in the motion to the Department of Health, which exercised this leadership over the hospital networks and at the same time that it coordinates with the rest of the departments. It will also be necessary to review the appropriate protocol of the Health Department, because there are specific collections that may be more victimized or double victimized than we have just taken into account, but also a little to finish defining specific protocols. I don't want to run away from the debate that came up around SAP too, said before Congresswoman Gemma Lienas. I would also have liked to be able to introduce – at the end of the day, we have not done this – that I believe that Parliament should not define according to what diagnoses or reports, but we do have to agree that the academy and the professionals should come to terms with what are the protocols for action and how they should be carried out and how these reports should be carried out, especially when we talk about these issues. Therefore, in the area of agreement, I believe that the deal has finally remained, and Congresswoman Vilella has also made an important effort, I believe that the text has been sufficiently correct as to make everyone feel comfortable. And to introduce a theme that was raised by the Socialist Group, which was accepted, which is the creation of a diagnostic review committee, from diagnostics of sexual abuse to minors, to determine, if that is the case, the need for a second opinion. It's a theme, as we say, complicated and therefore the fact that from anywhere there is always a possibility to ask for this second opinion is also there. I also say that since the Socialist Group we have wanted to move forward in this young man... to understand that it is to move forward, right? For the better way and with the better ones you serve that we believe to be done progressively and gradually without entering into any other questions. Therefore, here we have had this own discussion and such. We have asked for a telephone, if not a specific telephone, it does take into account the issue of sexual abuse and especially of infants and is not vaguely derived from another telephone. And lastly, a demand: that all this without resources will be very difficult to carry forward. Therefore, the compromise that we also ask the advisor that at the length of 2018, therefore, is vague increasing the presumption, because the units or multidisciplinary teams can be present in the territory. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.313.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. The words of Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.314.0	Well, thank you, President. Good afternoon. We prioritize this issue as an urgent need that needs to be improved, because child sexual abuse is a difficult problem that has a high incidence and that, moreover, as you have also commented, has a low detection. It is known that more training is needed for professionals. We will gather the motion – we will gather the motion – because we understand, as I say, that this issue is very important. More than a year ago we introduced a law that I will now explain and we have put forward various motions for resolutions in this direction. Now, yes, I want to comment, as I think you know the group proposing and in this case also the counselor, surprise, disappointment, indignation to the professional community for the inquiry that there was here fifteen days ago. We understand, you, honourable Member, do not know the technical details in depth and therefore surprised us with this criticism so vehemently. And the community was also surprised by the counselor's intervention, especially some of his words. It sounded strange that it is said here that "of three hundred and forty cases attended to the Hospital Sant Joan de Deu, has only been able to answer the cases detected since the 1st of 2016 in a total of set. This is a direct transcript. Just as they were very surprised by his words, which I said here: « UFAM has very serious lacks of a general look, they have clear androcentric patterns, and it is especially offensive that « they also have very serious lacks in psychological formation. I don't know how you make this statement, but, well, I think it's hard to assess from here, from Parliament, the deputies, what is the psychological formation of the experts. Now, he still surprised much more the Councillor's answer, in this case, to say to him: "It seems that you and I are very much in agreement, not to mention agree on everything. And to finish ratifying it, he closed the answer giving him the reason, saying that "we need a training and awareness plan at a much more expert level for the professional units like UFAM. Well, I think that in politics criticism always has evidence and proposals. As you know, our law, as I say, presented in 2016, precisely to propose, law of urgent measures for the prevention and treatment of the situation of maltreatment to minors. I read that, by the way, she was cast for the vote against Juntes for the Yes, and that you, as the counselor you are so concerned about discussing this issue, so after a year and a half they dropped her and unfortunately here there is no law approved, nor in due course, to be able to talk about this topic that City spent years and a half here in Parliament. Well, that's what I think they care about and little more to say about respect. Today it will not be approved what you wanted, asked, that it was to close the UFAM, a center of reference for all Catalonia that has many years of experience, of which, moreover, it has eleven social workers – eight are women – two pediatricians – the two are women – two psychologists – the two are women – the receptionists are women, yes, it is true – you were in the unit, someone had to go to visit them before, maybe, to criticize so much – they are also women receptionists. Three hundred_night-one cases in 2016 attested by suspicion of sexual abuse, derived from all of Catalonia because they value experts, well, a 30_per_cent with a very likely Abus report. That's what the report says, so the hospital has in question, that we could make public if some would contradict me in these numbers, I read it. Well, and you know, the technical word is called consistent indicators, which is what this unit does, finding consistent indicators. Anything else would be a mistake. Well, they themselves do self-criticism. I'd like to improve on a few questions. Some of them are very obvious. This is the current protocol for the hospital. Before I explained to him what difference there is between attending to an emergency case, where a circuit is to be activated before seventy-two hours, which is very different from what you set up. I think I can leave it because the reader, this is the protocol I think I need to review. That's what we're going to approve of today, too. Well, and, as you know, Ciutadans will continue to do what he has always done, with respect to the professionals, to the families, and especially, also, to his professionals, of whom we are very proud. MPs and MPs, very good August. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.315.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. The words of Ms. Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.316.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, good afternoon everyone, this is the last place and we're all a little tired, but the truth is it's worth being able to, so explain and comment on how this long negotiation has gone. I wanted to thank Mrs Lienas, therefore, that she presented a motion – she explained it today – with a very concrete intention, but also, and after the Councillor's intervention in the inquiry, we had an obligation to seek a consensus, because it was a rather important issue because, despite the discrepancies, despite those things that in the past could not work very well in the country, it is obvious that we have a challenge of the future that we need, so much from the government, that this is done, like from Parliament: looking and being purposeful..., a little, as Mrs Escarp also said, to focus our energy on looking for this future better in order to be able to protect victims of sexual abuse. It's obvious that in these past years, I'd say, society has been aware of this drama that victims suffer and suffer. Obviously, the victims, therefore, were not there. It's dramatic, but what we have to do is approach it and give it an answer. It is also obvious that the majority – as Mrs Lienas already said – are women, that many of them are infants and, therefore, that the services that we have at our disposal must have these visions, both the female vision of this question and the vision that they are infants and that therefore we must protect them twice: as possible victims, but also as people who cannot defend their rights because of their age. But we must also bear in mind that we must defend the rights of all, of all parts. On this issue of sexual abuse there are very different and very inverse situations; therefore, the system must be able to ensure that the rights of all parties are complemented. And that's important, because if we put a lot of emphasis on what didn't work, it's likely that we're going to go over and over and over again and no longer have a guarantee of all these rights. So, let's focus, which I think is what we did with this text, looking for this consensus, focusing the issue so that everyone has these rights guaranteed. We have spoken before: the multidisciplinary teams, which will be located in some of the hospitals of the public utility network; therefore, in each of the territories, from the council is going to look for that hospital where these specialists can be located. There will be specialists, there will be diagnostics, there will be treatment. It will also have to coordinate with SIAD and SIE, important. There are many points that have not just been clarified in this young man because, obviously, the complexity is great. There must be the revision of the protocol, both the one of salvation as it integrates it into the inter-departmental, and also, importantly, the figure that I lead, in the Department of Salvation, a little which are the policies in this area. Therefore, we who have added are two key points. We have the teams, but also, in order to guarantee these rights, we need to see that there is a consensus on the nomenclature that is being used, and to place it, as Mr Soler said, outside the Parliament, because we are not the Members we need to have this debate, but the scientific community, the professionals and the experts. It's important that you can do this. And also to say that SAP – in case you didn't know that I was said here, in this one of you – is more than a year ago that it doesn't use as a diagnostic, so, here we close it, but it's already done that. And the review committee, which explained Mrs. Escarp. In any case, just say – because time was running out –: we have to value the expert, important, the expert of our professionals; we have to improve in the present, because we always have to look, especially when we have knowledge, we have to improve and we have to put the services of the Administration in the continuous best, and, above all, look to the future, because we have to be able to look in the future at the eyes of the victims and guarantee them that their rights will actually be guaranteed. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.317.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villa. Then, in order to fix his position, has the word Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.318.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, deputies, deputies, well, we're in front of a young man who deals with a very serious problem, and, as such, I think we need to give him some of this, so, an answer that's up. And I'm telling you, Mrs Lienas, that with this young man, who has finally been very good, respects what you initially presented, I think we can come to the point where we can actually give this answer, which I'm saying, it has to be an answer that is at the height of the circumstances. We are talking about sexual rape, assault and sexual abuse from the point of view of salvation, more of which can be dealt with by this shacra, but indeed, and as Mrs Lienas rightly said in her question, the cases are often detected by the health services and by the consequences that it causes in the salvation of the people affected. And even though it is about abuses in the different sectors of the population, it makes special reference to minors. And I think it's worth a thought before the report that last May presented the Intress, it was evident that complaints of sexual abuse to minors increased by 19_per_cent in the last five years, which suggests that we should give responses from the society's joint administration and social entities against sexual violence. In Catalonia, 679 sexual assaults were reported during 2016, according to the official data of the Mossos d'Esquadra; in Catalonia, well, there are these 679 assaults, and in Spain it is estimated that 15_percent of the minors suffer some type of abuse at the length of their childhood, even though the cases that have been detected do not arrive at 1_per_cent. That is why, Mrs Lienas, I am surprised that in the first point of her initial text I asked for the deletion of UFAM, the unit of reference in the diagnosis that there is to Sant Joan de Deu, and that we know that a large pocket, an efficient pocket is due at the end. And, therefore, we are grateful, therefore, that you have finally come to a deal with Juntes for the Yes that you have nothing to see with what you set up. As we have been able to listen to the wide range of interventions, there have been many presentations that have substantially modified that first text, and that have enriched and improved the sense of the motion. Questions to be highlighted. The importance of having multidisciplinary teams in public hospitals in the territories that have health specialists and social workers in the approach and intervention of sexual rapes, and that these teams are the ones who do the diagnosis and treatment. And it is important that I have made it clear that the first visit cannot take longer than forty-four hours. This, however, requires human and material resources, and in this sense we find it very appropriate, therefore, the message presented by the Socialist Party asking the Government to provide economic resources for these comprehensive multidisciplinary teams in the proper assumptions of 2018. Once the diagnosis and this treatment have been made, there must be a follow-up to be done by the SIEs and SIADs. Indispensable, too, the formation, which is formed the professionals of salvation respects the detection of sexual rapes. Because, as the data say, the one that costs, the one that costs truth is that those who suffer an attack of this type, whether they are smaller or not, the one that costs is that they manifest it openly to their meth or professional of salvation. That is why these are absolutely formatted in the subject matter with the aim of detecting possible attacks against human dignity. And this formation must be extended, as the 8th point of the motion says, to the faculties of medicine, infirmary, psychology, social work, advocacy and in the field of teaching. I would also like to highlight and put into value the slogan of the Socialist Party, which are still more, therefore, these acquaintances, specifically demanding to increase the formative resources in the world of justice. Cal, too, training in the world of teaching, and that is also foreseen in this young man. And an important question: territorial equity – territorial equity. It is not possible to reduce the scope of action in Barcelona and the big cities, but everyone– everyone– has right to the assistance that surrounds him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.319.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. Next, to pronounce... no. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.320.0	Thank you, President. Well, very briefly, because many things have already been said. Just from here, to go quickly, say that we will vote in favour of the motion. Because, in addition, we believe that with the papers and with the whole transaction process, the text has been further enriched. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.321.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, to pronounce on the exams, has the word Ms Gemma Lienas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.322.0	Thank you, President. Everyone has said that, this young man has been working hard to reach a consensus, but we haven't gotten out. And I'm very happy, and I think it's a note. That's why I'm going to thank the work done by a lot of people: MP Escarp, of the PSC, with willing negotiator and mediator – thanks –; MP Vilella, of Junts per el Si, with waist to get to terms and from a lot of distant points of view; MP Soler, of Ciutadans, for patience; women's women from this Parliament who have put their degree of sorra; women from outside the Parliament: pediatricians, nurses, psychiatrists, psychologists – for sure, yes there have been meths..., women who are against UFAM – who have helped us a lot, advocates, social workers, experts in genera, who have come here and explained to us the cases they have experienced in great numbers; they have worked with us in great numbers. And, above all, Marta Otero, the political coordinator of my group, because, as complicated as the motion I present, and they are always very complicated, she helps me with her technical and political expertise, and empathy and moral support. And Councilman Comín and his team, because they worked to make this deal possible. Thank you, because today is a very important day, it's a historical tape for women, creatures and young people. And it's not just about the sexual rape safety net, it's about erasing the SAP of the diagnostic cataleg; it's got no scientific basis and right-wing vulnerabilities, and it's been a mess for women and creatures. If I have time to read them for a moment what Dr. Paul Fink, who was president of the American Psychiatry Association, says: "Science tells us that the most likely reason why a child rejects one of its parents is the same behavior as this parent; labels as SAP serve to divert attention from these conduits. So our system of salvation won't be able to make it any more useful. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-27-4003.323.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Lienas. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. [[Long break.]] There was no request for a separate vote. Therefore, we will vote for the motion. The vote begins. The motion on sexual abuse and salvation was approved by 118 votes in favour, against and abstentions. [[Greetings.]] Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session till tomorrow morning, at nine.
