ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before I enter the order of the day, I unfortunately have to tell you that on the 21st of April a woman died in Barcelona as a result of male violence. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the third death victim of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and express my most sincere condolences to the family. So, I repeat Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. The list of questions to answer orally is included in the Ple folder. According to Article 161 of the Rules of Procedure, they will be substantiated this morning as the first point of the order of the day. So, I'm guessing that oral questions to Government number 8 and number 9 have been postponed with the agreement of the Government and parliamentary groups. In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules, I recall that MP Marta Ribas, of the Gruppo Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has delegated her vote to the spokesman of his group, Mr Joan Coscubiela. Similarly, MEPs Ferran Pedret and Fernando Sánchez have delegated their paternal votes to the spokespersons of their groups, Mrs Eva Granados and Mr Alejandro Fernández respectively. [[Ask the Government about private care in public health centres]] [[310-00212/11]] The first point of the order of the day are questions with oral answer. The first question to the Government is about private attention in public health centres. The question is posed by Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.2.0	Thank you, President. Before starting, I wanted to send a message: Jordi Pujol junior..., be strong..., soon and we will come to visit. By bus. Well, I'm in the matter. Mr. Comín, today at the Catalan public hospitals we see how people who can afford to pay back the health service, put money from their butxaca, pass the waiting list. This is like saying that we have doctors, nurses, surgery, equipment, that we pay among everyone and that who can afford to pay for their butt goes first. This is a reality, and we want to know what your advice is doing to prevent this scandal that is produced, and, this has to be made clear, outside the law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.3.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. Reply to Mr. Toni Comín, greeting counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.4.0	Thank you, Madam President; good morning to you all, ladies and gentlemen. Mr. Congressman, I think you and I, and I believe that every member of this chamber, I want to think, agree that the principle of fair access is not one of the most important principles of our public health system. I would say that this is the most important principle of our public health system. And, for that reason, what the centers of the public network do can contradict this principle. That's it. Therefore, any regulation you make, and current regulations as well, must ensure that this principle is scrupulously completed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.5.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Fachin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.6.0	Indeed, it must be scrupulously completed. But I'm not saying it. I told the account union. The Union of Accounts, in its report on the Hospital Clínic, explains to us things like: « Private services are being provided using personal and public material. You said it here. Barnaclinic, and other places, unfortunately many, use space and public buildings to pay private attention, I insist, and put it here, against what sets the rules. He's a fan of private interventions in public time. An example. Equity in access, external consultations, public money-paid meths in public work schedules focus first on who can repay an extra from his butxaca before the people we pay for the health service. Unfortunately, these cases are not winged. We see that the people who want to make a magnetic resonance see how they change their access time to this evidence because there is someone who can pay and pay for their butxaca, and who goes to the public to pass it to the end of the week. That's what happens. I insist: pass. Well, if you want to deny what the Union of Accounts says, then you need to deny what this report says here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.7.0	Mr. Fachin, you've run out of time. [[Pause.]] Thank you. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.8.0	Yes, precisely because we do not deny what the Union of Accounts says, precisely because of this, on March 24 I personally announced publicly the dissolution of Barnaclinic and its replacement for another legal entity that guarantees the strict compliment of legality. And for this reason I made the announcement I made. We want the activity in a public center to respect the law. And that's why Barnaclinic's replacement. Two quick considerations. For what it does to the need to guarantee the principle of equity, I think it is important that there is a rule that directs the private activity of public centres, but that must adhere to the principle of equity and must adhere to the law in force. It seems obvious. For what it does to equity, it's not the same private activity related to the publicly funded portfolio, which is when there's a waiting list and all these risks that you assign to it, that they're real, that, for example, supplementary portfolio activity. The international client. Because in one case there is a risk that someone skips a list, and in the other two cases there is no list, because there is no list. And so, when there's no list, there's no such risk... of fairness. Therefore, these differences must be taken into account. For what it does to the regulatory framework for existing legislation, we also need to take into account some important differences. It is not the same as private activity makes it a center of the public network but it is a center, for example, of the third sector, the heritage of which it is private, which makes this activity a center of the public network, public ownership, the heritage of which it is public. Because one of the regulations that has to be taken into account at the time of this regulation, which, I insist, I think is necessary and we work there, is the Law of Heritage. Therefore, in the complexity of the fact that the principle of equity discriminates between different types of portfolio and that the legislation in force discriminates between different ownerships of the assets with which the health activity is made, taking into account these differences, it is as we will have to articulate the legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about Catalan communication media]] [[310-00209/11]] Second question to the Government, on the Catalan communication media, formulated for Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.10.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, what opinion does the Government's policy with regard to the Catalan public media deserve?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.11.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Councillor of Culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.12.0	Well, very good morning; many thanks, very honorable president. Illustrious congressman, lords and lords, as you see, huh? There's no councilwoman Munté because I can answer that question. Some other groups were also concerned about these issues and had the courtesy to postpone it for 15 days. You, despite everything, keep it. I answer it with great taste: from the perspective of the Councillor of Culture, very good, if we keep in mind that the next season will begin, both television and radio, we program with cultural contents; from the general perspective, if we have to attend the hearings, therefore also frankly positive.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.13.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.14.0	Mr Councillor, your Government is going to allocate EUR 306 million this year to the public media, apart from the millions that distribute to private media with opaque criteria. That is his Government's media policy: to allocate a rain of millions to use public media as a political arm of his failed processist obsession, to use the money of all Catalans to distribute it among his friends and associates. And on TV3, unfortunately, it's not like you say, regarding the hearings. They've been suffering a drastic drop in the audience for months. And at the moment when TV3 needed the government's momentum most, you charge it with appointing the most radical lord you have found, the most convinced separatist, the most anti-Citizen lord, who worked for the former Convergence. Have they not found, counselor, another more radical? Are they so desperate that they have to keep him alive by appointing his party mate as director? Look, two_of_each_three Catalans believe, according to the latest GESOP survey, that TV3 has a marked independence bias. And do you really believe that the way to replicate TV3 is to appoint Mr. Sanchis as director? With the lower audiences, with the advertising going down, when less citizens trust the impartiality of TV3, was it necessary to put their party mate, Mr. Prenafeta's biographer? Did you not find any independent and competent professional to appoint? Is that your management of public media? Look, the last plenary Parliament repudiated Mr Sánchez, and he said he was not leaving, and you were holding him. It is seen that the democratic mandate uses it to jump over the laws, but not to remove his friends from the chairs. I understand that it is complicated, in the middle of the crisis with Esquerra Republicana, to make a new exchange of chromosomes and say to them..., if they stay in Catalunya Radio and you take TV3. But, look, you know what we're worried about, counselor? That while you are watering with millions and fighting to dominate the public media among you, you do not devote yourselves to priorities, to earmarking money to barracks in schools, to return the extra pay to the officials, to end the waiting lists in health care. You don't have any plans. Call for new elections and give way to new teams, without corruption, without backpacks and ruling for all Catalans. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.15.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. The word has the councilman Vila.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.16.0	Thank you very much. Well, in the first place, there is no Mr. Sánchez who is director of public television in Catalonia. In Vicenç Sanchis, yes; a prestigious journalist who is not a political party activist, that I know– that I know, huh? We would have uploaded the television if we had accepted the message on the assumption that you were setting a 25-per-cent reduction in the public television budget in Catalonia – we would have uploaded the television. Catalonia's public television has, in its founding object, the mission to guarantee and protect an identity..., and a Catalan language that, again, if we were to deal with many of the initiatives that you have taken, would surely still be worse than it is at these moments. It is also your mission to set up a very important audiovisual industry. Small countries like Denmark, around us, also confirm that with the leadership of the public administration they can play a very important role from the point of view of the audiovisual industry. And a very important aspect, honourable Member, that should not be overlooked: seven years of leading public television in Catalonia. And more important still: according to all the questions and the barometers of opinion, continue to feel television, and its information in particular, which deserves more credibility in the public opinion of Catalonia. This is public, well-known data; a note of 8.4, which has been confirmed for the next quarter. As much in fiction production – we took a good example in the evening – as in all news and information, the channel that is considered even more credible in the eyes of public opinion is TV3. From here on out, you are free to decide whether the addresses are made in one way or another. But what I can assure you is that it's absolutely right-fitting fans. There is a law that provides for the autonomy, the legal person own, of the Catalan Corporation of Mitjans and guarantees its functional autonomy. I hope you also know how to respect her. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the tourist data of Holy Week]] [[310-00213/11]] Third question to the Government, on the tourist data of Holy Week, formulated for Mr Oriol Amat, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.18.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. This question goes from tourism to tourism. The economy is pursuing as the last to improve the welfare of the people. To improve the welfare of the population it is essential that it improves, that it increases the economic activity. The Catalan economy is offering very good data, it is improving activity, occupation, wages... Yesterday, the National Institute of Statistics published a data, which today has not done much about the communication media, about the population at risk of poverty; Catalonia has been located in a 13_per_cent. At the beginning of this term it was a 15-per-cent; therefore, we dropped from 15 to 13. Is a 13 a lot of it? It's less than a year and a half ago and, for example, it's less than what's in Spain, which is a 22_per_cent, and while in Catalonia the risk of poverty is falling, according to the INE, in Spain the risk of poverty is rising. This improvement in our economy is due to the fact that Catalonia has a very diversified, highly internationalized economy. There is a lack of tourism and oblivion that generates the 12_percent of GDP, the 13_percent of occupation, and oblivion, for example, that our country sees, a country that we admire, with an economy of the first of the world... – I am referring to France –; therefore, France also has tourism as the first economic sector and, with Catalonia, a lot of diversification in many more sectors. We have a coastal, mountain, urban, sports, etcetera tourism. These last few days we have been familiar with the pressing of the good results of this Holy Week's occupation, and that is why the first question I wanted to ask – I wanted to do two – is the first one: what does the government value for the tourist data of Holy Week? I referred earlier to the last of the economy, which is to improve welfare. But only by increasing activity... does it not imply better welfare, does it mean, for example, improving the quality of employment, improving wages... Even though they are growing, they still have to improve wages. This means increasing the added value of the offer, increasing diversification, seasonalizing. Every time the tourist is more demanding, he asks for a territory that is straight and preserved, he asks for good touristic, gastronomic facilities that complement his stay. That is why we must also ensure the sustainability of the environment. And I move on to the second and second question: what actions does the government carry out to achieve that tourism contributes to the quality of the occupation and the sustainability of the country and the environment?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.19.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Amat. Reply by Mr. Jordi Baiget, Business and Knowledge Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.20.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The honourable Member is sure, yes, tourism is an economic activity for all economies, also for developed economies. You considered the case of France as a country of high development, where tourism has an important presence. It is France, but it also passes to the United States and also passes in other countries that are absolutely captivating in other areas. Therefore, being an advanced economy and being a tourist power is not paradoxical, it is not irrational; on the contrary, many times there is a positive correlation. Tourism is therefore a sector, and it is an important sector for our economy, which we must continue to develop. And this season, for the results of Holy Week, according to the data that we have, according to the data that we have, also according to the data that we have facilitated and have been facilitated by tourism employers and the same sector, has been one of the best times of Holy Week – if not the best – since two years later. And it has been to all types of tourism: sea tourism, mountain tourism, snow tourism, and also urban tourism. And it has also been for all categories of equipment: for hotels, for campers, for apartments. So it was a good result. Besides, there's been a situation that didn't give, that's that the stays have widened. This week there have been states..., the middle of the summer has expanded, and has tended to four, five days of the state. And that's good. So, who are the raons? Well, one side of the calendar, obviously. Whether it's a late Holy Week, it's allowed to make snow tourism or mountain tourism compatible with the beginning of the platter season. The second characteristic, you say it with the data that reflect a reduction in the poverty index: the best of the economy; the best of the economy, which makes every time more families in our country notice this better, because we must not forget that the tourism of Holy Week is a tourism that is functionally internal. And third, the best of the offer and the best of the quality; for example, that each time there are more touristic segells: family tourism, sports tourism – very important in Holy Week... This excellence, this search for excellence and these investments make the path in the future this: better quality, better offer and better experience in all of the Catalan territory.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.21.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the model of attention to childhood and adolescence]] [[310-00214/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the model of attention to childhood and adolescence, formulated for Ms Montserrat Vilella, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.22.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Counselor, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for Yes we are very aware of the great work being done from your department to build a good childcare system. Our country must guarantee children that they will respect their rights and that they will provide the opportunity to develop as people and as citizens. If we intend to become a state, it is obvious that we must ensure it as a solid and effective structure; infants are the future of a country. In this Parliament in previous legislatures it has already worked with a broad consensus to provide the country with regulatory laws, such as 14/2010, with rights and opportunities of childhood and adolescence, if it is true that its development is carried out with less speed than we all would like. The economic crisis has had a brutal impact on many families in our country and has given us what we called at the time "the new face of the poor: pairs or single seas, with little children, who have gone from having work and having all the needy covered to having nothing and falling in the spiral of the poor; that is what he spoke to us before Deputy Amat. These children, like all those other than for other reasons, for having rejected abuse or for neglect or any other reason, may see their opportunities for their development affected. And these kids are asking us why we're acting and we're already acting. The new premise, with the finances of the Generality already healthier after the efforts made in later years, has given us the opportunity to prioritize in policies of welfare and, in concrete terms, in policies of childhood. For another band, it's obvious that you need to rethink some forms of how things are done. For example, we know that it's been working and it's been a few years, through the experience of professionals, in a new model of care. For example, open centres must now become educational intervention services, much more focused on prevention and family and community work. That is why, from our group, we would like to know what steps are being taken from their department, through the Directorate-General for Children's Affairs, to provide the country with a system of care for children that is more responsive in detection and more effective in response. These last few days, we've seen nine measurements come up, and we'd like to have them detailed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Villa. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.24.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you, honourable Member, for the question. As you said, the priority of the government at these times is that our infants, both for the present and for the future, can grow up developing their vital project in the best possible way. That's why we're developing an integral childhood plan, and I can tell you that, as the counselor, it's a matter of concern that I'm most proud to be there at the back. It is a model based on which we have five: prevention, participation, protection, promotion of rights and, finally, provision of resources, as it could not otherwise be. To ensure above all that children can live as families, be close, be extended or be alien, for this reason we have empowered and empowered the plans of the foster families, because everyone has right to be with their family. Improve the protection system of the 6,927 infants we have at these times, of which less than half, 3,040, are institutionalized. Develop the socio-educational intervention services for children, which you have already commented on, as well as the public network in all the regions of Catalonia. A strong increase of the professionals of the assistance teams, the EAIAs; at these times we will have fifty-four professionals. A new space, spaces of supervision with professionals, for foster families and biologic families, because they are spaces of truth finding. An implementation of a committee of guardians, who are the ones who will review the executions of the guardianship of the children, because the DGAIA does not share and also judges. And then the whole series of resources: nine children's homes, also to all the demarcations, that until now there were no; twenty-three CRAE us, all 2018 only CRAE of twelve places, therefore, small units of coexistence; CREI; individualized protection itineraries for young people; assisted floors, in this case, more than thirty-five floors for seniors of different years... In summary, an implementation of a shoal plan, an investment to match all resources, with a presupposition, at these times, of 240,000_million euros, which is more than 10_percent of 2016. Therefore, continue to drive all that are political for childhood, for the present and for the future. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.25.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the special travel arrangement for Holy Week holidays]] [[310-00215/11]] Five questions to the government, about the transit device for Holy Week. The question is posed by Mr Jordi Sendra, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.26.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Jané, I would like to begin my intervention congratulating the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra for its successful performance in the antigihadist operation due to end yesterday in the metropolitan area of Barcelona. Actions such as yesterday ratify the great appreciation that the Squadron Mosses have among the citizens of Catalonia. That said, the special travel device for the holiday of Holy Week 2017 was closed without mortal victims in Catalonia, for the first time since the creation of the Catalan Transit Service. This contrasts significantly with the Holy Week of the past year: last year they recorded dead victims in six accidents, one of which passed to Freginals, where thirteen girls died on a bus to the AP-7. Twenty-two fatalities have been recorded throughout the State in this same period, ranging from the 7th of April to the 17th of April. The year 2016, the holiday period of Holy Week, taking into account both the period without school activity and the rest of rest days, usually generally between Divendres Sant and Dilluns de Pasqua, was extended between March 18 and 28. It is obvious, therefore, that we find ourselves in a trend of better statistics of road leftness, especially in Catalonia. And that's what we think is the fruit of a concrete strategy for mobility, not just in the periods of great displacements, but in the day-to-day. In this sense, we want to ask him: how does the special transit device value deployed with the Holy Week 2017 motto? And, as in the wording of my question I have not exhausted all my time, I ask the president's benevolence to yield to him, because I can deepen his answer further. [[Relieving of sight and laughter.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.27.0	[[The president laughs.]] Many thanks, Mr. Sendra, but this will not be possible. [[Rialles.]] Reply by Mr. Jordi Jané, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.28.0	Thank you, Madam President. I thank you, Mr. Deputy, first of all, for your congratulations to the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. Indeed, yesterday, together with other police bodies, the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra proved that it is a prepared thing, also in the international arena, to fight effectively against this gihadist terrorism that unfortunately does not know borders and can affect us all. And they already respond to the value of this transit, road safety device – which had two phases: a first phase from the 7th of April to the Diumenge de Rams; a second phase from the Dius Sant to the Easter Diuns – so well, in the days included in these two phases there was not a single fatal victim to the Catalan reels, and that had never happened. And I will also give him a new date: on yesterday's date, April 25th, we are ill-advised to wear dead victims in this thirty-seven year. But there is no year, since we have travel skills to Catalonia, in which there are fewer mortal victims. Therefore, there has been a reduction, although it is noted in a much clearer way, more traffic volume. In this Holy Week, if we look at it globally, practically an 8_per_cent more, in relation to the past year, of transit; more people than come out, fewer accidents. This I think is a good message that we can give, and it is a message thanks to many actions that are being done, but thanks also to the citizenry, the drivers, that there is a greater awareness, a greater understanding that road safety is important to avoid suffering people. And this is our Government's proposal: we really want to reach 2020, in relation to 2010, with half the deaths on Catalan roads, and it's a European goal, but it's an objective that we make like government, and we work hard. And he also wanted to end with a final reflection: zero dead during Holy Week. In Sweden, 20 years ago, they put the "Zero vision, zero dead to the reels. That's our goal, we want to work there. It doesn't have to be a utopia, it has to be a constant job in favor of victims, in favor of measures that facilitate the good pocket to drivers and in favor, in the end, of a concept of road safety in which very clearly...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.29.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.30.0	...is involved in society as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the institutional collaboration around the candidacy to declare the Diada de Sant Jordi immaterial assets of humanity]] [[310-00217/11]] He asks the Government about the institutional collaboration around the candidacy to declare the Diada de Sant Jordi immaterial patrimoni de la ummanitat, formulated for the lady Andrea Levy, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.32.0	Mr Junqueras, how do you value the institutional collaboration of the candidacy of the feast of Sant Jordi as an intangible heritage of UNESCO?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.33.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.34.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. Good day, Mrs. Levy, and thank you for the question. We always value positively any collaboration and, beyond any recognition, always positive and always desired for everyone, on behalf of UNESCO, I am sure that you must agree with me that Sant Jordi is already de facto a heritage of humanity. It's for the people's sake, it's for the people's effort, and I'm sure no one – and you're not, of course, going to fall in the mood for a credit or a medal that doesn't match it, or the mood for politicizing the people's party, are you? Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.35.0	Thank you, Vice President. I got the word "Mrs. Levy."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.36.0	Good morning, Mr. Junqueras. I hope you give him a lot of books and you give him a lot of roses. As you know, Mr Junqueras, for this issue, for the question of the nomination of Sant Jordi, they need the cooperation of the Government of Spain – which, by the way, is also Government in Catalonia and is also Government for Catalans – and the Government of Spain has already said that it supports the nomination to UNESCO, proof of this is the presence of the Vice-President of the Government with you at last Friday's event, thus showing that the Government of Spain wants to present this nomination to UNESCO. What happens is that you have been disturbed: you have been disturbed by this presence, you have been disturbed by this collaboration. And the best of all is that you do not change the script of your interventions. It bothers them when they don't help and it bothers them when it helps; it bothers them that we have common goals and that we work together. But let's keep doing it. Get used to that collaboration. Proof of this is the defense of Barcelona's candidacy – isn't it, Mr. Comín? – like the European Medicines Agency, or yesterday, for example, that candidacy for the Mediterranean Games in Tarragona. You, what happens is that you want to decide and appropriate yourself of everything – that's what you want, Mr. Junqueras, you do – even of the immaterial, as is Sant Jordi. You wanted to appropriate yourself to the Catalan identity saying that you can only be Catalan if you are not Spanish, and you want to appropriate yourself also from Sant Jordi as an independenceist party, as you have already done, by the way, with the Diada, with the Eleventh of September. But being Catalan is much more – it's much more – than you independenceists; Sant Jordi is much more than you independenceists. That is why the Government of Spain wants to support this candidacy for UNESCO, and it does so with conviction, but also out of fear. Because it's that what happens, that every time you go abroad you're worse than the story of the Titànic: a lot of announcement, a lot of party, but in the end your external action is sinking. Look, Mr Junqueras, listen to me: this is no longer going to be balanced, it is going to be balanced. This no longer goes to those who dare or do not dare to sign an absolutely illegal decree. This is no longer the case with moderates or supposedly radicals. This is gonna make a fool of itself. And I hope, Mr Junqueras, that, on behalf of all the Catalans, that, on behalf of Catalonia, you do not dare to make a fool of yourself, because you are already demonstrating it internationally. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.37.0	Thank you, Mrs. Levy. Reply by the Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.38.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Mrs Levy, for always considering your interventions. [[Rialles.]] It seemed to me to find a certain amount of anger there that I don't understand, because the first answer I gave to him I understand was very positive. I told him that he appreciated all the collaboration very positively. And I'd like to tell him that I was surprised by his ability to sweep everything: to sweep Sant Jordi with the decrees of I don't know what and with our independenceist attitude. If I just explained that Sant Jordi is the people's party, exactly. If I just told him that we value positively all the collaborations with all the institutions, with all the civil entities, with all the governments of the world, with international bodies, etc. Then you say to me: "But know that the Spanish government will do this. Home, I'd just miss it. What don't you want to do? How does it stand out that he wants to do something that's natural? I'd have to iron it naturally. Any government in the world would back me up. What's wrong? I wouldn't endorse it, any government in the world? It's more – it's more, it's more – we'd be happy to do it ourselves directly as the government, and you're doing everything you can to stop us from doing it. And after we stop doing it, they want us to thank you for doing it. Listen, we are delighted to work with everyone and to work with everyone and to recognize this merit that the people of Catalonia have turned this celebration into an internationally recognized celebration. In fact, that's because it expresses values that are universal... – I had occasion to explain it the other day too, I don't know if you were there, but – it expresses universal values that we find in many legends that come together to that of Sant Jordi, long before there is any cultural contact between the world of Sant Jordi, the world of Christianity that expresses Sant Jordi, and the rest of the world where it has developed. In Catalonia we have had the luck, the ability and the ability to turn it into an extraordinary party that everyone recognizes, and we are very happy that you also feel and share this boss of the Generality of Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.39.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about the removal and replacement of asbestos or fibrocement materials from educational centres]] [[310-00210/11]] Question, seven questions to the Government, on the withdrawal and replacement of asbestos or fibrocement materials from educational centres, formulated for Mrs Esther Niubó, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.40.0	Thank you, President. Good morning. On 7 March, the Committee on Education of this Parliament approved a proposal from the Socialist Group urging the Government to submit an inventory of all the educational centres affected by asbestos or fibrocement installations, to submit a timetable for the removal of fibrocement from these centres and to draw up a plan for the progressive withdrawal and replacement of this material before the start of the next course. A few days later, she advised you, she was responding to a battery of questions from this Member, and she was informed of the existence of almost 300 educational centres throughout Catalonia with the presence of asbestos at their facilities, with almost 200 in Lleida's districts and, at a greater distance, 47 in the West Valley. My question is: what is the government's understanding of the compliment of this Parliament's mandate to withdraw and replace asbestos from educational centres throughout Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.41.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.42.0	Thank you, President. My honourable Member, the capteniment is to give an answer to the motion for a resolution. I would like to remind you that the legislation on fibrocement or asbestos is not new, but it is from the September 2001, therefore, more than fifteen years ago. And now, therefore, this Parliament has made this motion for a resolution. Now we've got the inventory, we've done it, you asked for it, we've returned the number of centers. It should be borne in mind that the number of installations is very diverse, so there may be a few downhills up to a school that is not in use, and what the department's technicians do, acting responsibly, is look at those situations where there is a possible risk to the student. Because, as you know, asbestos, fibrocement, is not dangerous unless there is a risk of deterioration or it is dangerous just when it is taken. Therefore, what we are doing is acting responsibly to go, so they are gradually bringing the fibrocement or asbestos of our educational centers.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.43.0	Thank you, Counselor. I've got the word "Miss Niubó."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.44.0	Thank you, Counselor. Well, as everyone knows, so asbestos is a harmful material for salvation that can produce cancer independently of the amount to which it has been exposed, and every year in the world there are more than a hundred and thousand deaths from disease resulting from exposure to this material. It is a prohibited substance throughout the State since 2002, but, effectively, there are still many equipments, among them at schools, built with this material. My group is the first to not want to create an alarm about this issue, but precisely, when it comes to an important issue, which logically concerns the citizenry and in particular the educational community because it can be harmful for children but also for all people working in these centres, it is appropriate that the government tackles with the priority of a progressive replacement plan for this fibrocement to the schools and institutes affected. It is important that there is a diligent and responsible action by the Government, which is communicated to the whole of the territory and the educational community in order to generate confidence and tranquillity and, therefore, to put a date on this withdrawal. We want a date and, above all, we ask you to act immediately on those most damaged installations and that they are the ones that, as you said, are the most dangerous. Therefore, I must ask you: do you have a timetable for this withdrawal? Do they have a plan? Do they have an acting protocol? I say this because many centers have addressed us asking..., knowing they have, that there is asbestos at their installations and they don't know what to do. Will they therefore act as departmental officers in order to proceed with this withdrawal? What presuppositional departure will this year be for this purpose and how many centres will allow this to be addressed? We need to know which centers require this immediate action. We need to know if the next course will be asbestos-free. So, there's a lot of questions, there's a lot of confusion. You do not only have a political mandate to complete, but you do have a European directive that obliges you to do so. Therefore, please set aside the batteries and prepare and present a plan as soon as possible, because it is already late. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.45.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. It has the word Constellera Ruiz.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.46.0	Member of the Commission, to say that going late when this regulation has been in force for 15 years and this government is still not, therefore, certainly not the late ones, but the more diligent ones. For the first time now there is an inventory of all those centers with all those elements containing fibrocement or asbestos. And you need to know that, for the removal of this asbestos, it has to be done for a specialized company, a company that, moreover, has to be authorized for the Department of Work, and it has to be done when the students are not in the center. Because, without creating any kind of alarmism, we have to say that asbestos in case there is no risk, what there is risk is either when there is deterioration or when it is taken. So, what do we do with the department? With this inventory we have seen what are those elements where there is deterioration and, therefore, are the first to change. In fact, I have to tell you that there are already fourteen scheduled performances at this time. The assumption of this year, 2017, already contemplates 1_million euros for the removal of fibrocement. And from here, tell him that, from 2002 to 2010, in eight years there were 22 performances; in change, from 2011 to 2017, 39, and that only for this year there are already 14 performances. Therefore, all the information you want, all the transparency, obviously; but tell him that the government does act diligently on this issue, without creating alarm and feeling responsible for what the constructions and works of our centers mean. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.47.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the stumbling of the Creu de Sant Jordi to Victor Grífols]] [[317-00145/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political and social situation. Asks the question Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Parliamentary Group Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.48.0	Thank you very much, President. Before long, send a greeting from this parliamentary group to the companies of Ca ses Mopis, Palma, who are currently dislocated. But, by the way, president, two weeks ago we knew the names of all the people guarded with the Cree of Sant Jordi. Of all the names public fets, stands out one, as at least, for us: Victor Grífols. Victor Grífols, president until recently of the pharmaceutical company Grífols ; pharmaceutical company that in October 2015 announced that it was moving its financing to Ireland to take advantage of the tax advantages ; pharmaceutical company that, according to an Intermon Oxfam report, has thirteen subsidiaries in tax havens. In fact, beyond this case, far from the history of the Sant Jordi hollows, we find some entrepreneurs of these who have now been or can be called "guarded disputes", like Carles Sumorroca. In fact, globalisation in this capitalist system that we live has opened up all the frontiers of the free movement of capital. A red captiva for the capital, while people continue to play their lives to cross tanks each time more waterproof. Hence, as a minimum to clearly attack the first element of capitalism, the captivating red capital, so that the practice against evasion and tax evasion is at the centre of all government policy. But while those who selfishly and insolently seek to escape are guarded, the contrary message is sent. Don't you think you can hear why the government is on the side of those who seek not to pay taxes where they charge and generate benefits?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.49.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.50.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, Mrs. Regant. The granting of the Sant Jordi creas, which is a distinction that was created by the year 81 I believe that it has come approved by a variety and a plurality and a cross-section in the criteria that made it strong, and made it recognized, and effectively converted it into the most important distinction that the Government of the country holds. I want to highlight precisely this cross-cutting component. Sant Jordi's beliefs are not given to the friends of a government or to the friends of an ideology, they are given to those who have made a contribution to the country, and from this point of view I can assure you that Mr.Grífols, like all the other guards and guards, will lock in the entities that have been guarded, have been worth more than enough for the benefit of the country. I will say this more clearly: Mr.Víctor Grífols, his company, which is very busy not in Ireland, but in Parets del Vallès, is at this time one of the references, probably the most important reference in the world in its pharmaceutical sector.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.51.0	Thank you, President. There's the word Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.52.0	Thank you, President. Linked to Parets, with 75_percent of its financing to Ireland : its financing to Ireland, 75_percent to Ireland. Tax elusion is a practice to eradicate, and the first step is to prove it with the values that are prized and kept. In fact, this is what we approved in the past general policy debate in this Parliament, where we committed ourselves to prohibiting the delivery of guardians and sports and cultural distinctions to people who end most of their activity in Catalonia, but who have their tax domicile in countries considered tax havens. That is not the case. But beyond that, we are more of Pere Quart, when he renounced the Cree of St.Jordi and said: "Of faith and of Jordi we already have enough. Despite this, if we can reward someone, we believe that the values of those who came to fight against fascism, for example, like Felicia Brown or Salaria Kee, correspond more to guards directed at distinguishing merits or prominent services in Catalonia, as is the case with the Cree of Sant Jordi. President, can you confirm to this chamber that the Grífols band have not rewarded any more tax evaders or evaders? What verification measures have been taken to ensure what Parliament approved last October?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.53.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.54.0	Thank you very much. Miri, since the year 82, has stuck 1,556 hollows of Sant Jordi, of which 402 has entities. These beliefs, not one of them, have been coupled by the merits of aliens to what is the rules of the Cree of Sant Jordi. On the contrary, in all cases it could be explained that behind that guard there is someone or some entity that deserves to be distinguished with this consideration. There's no other way he thinks he's not up to these criteria. And the merits of all the guards and guardians of the edition that has sent us to clean up are perfectly well explained, they will be accredited at the time of the release ceremony. Miri, the pharmaceutical sector, of which Mr.Grífols is not an exponent, not only in Catalonia but worldwide – worldwide, especially in the United States – is an important sector for the economy and society of Catalonia. If Catalonia, and Barcelona in particular, has options to attract the European Medicines Agency, with all that it represents of attraction – attraction – of benefits to the country, it is precisely for a business fabric, of which Mr.Grífols is not a prominent exponent, which makes it possible for this country to be one of the world referents in a strategic sector. And believe me, we need a lot of people like Victor Grífols. People who bet for this country, people who bet for talent, for research, for innovation, and who don't seem to understand that the economy of the future is based, precisely, on knowledge, on added value.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.55.0	Thank you, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality to answer orally in the plenary on the penalties provided for officials who fail to complete disconnection laws]] [[317-00142/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.56.0	Thank you. Mr President, the Member of your parliamentary group, Mr Lluís Llach has tried to walk the pond [[relays]] – he tried to walk the pond – and he said in different public acts that those who do not comply with the laws of disconnection will be punished by the Government of the Generality. This statement, which has created a lot of concern, has created a lot of alarm, shows your government's willingness? What type of sanctions has your government provided for when you operate that do not want to apply the self-named ‘disconnection law'? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.57.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.58.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Albiol, I assume you're not suggesting that this government look at another side when a functionary or a public server ignores the laws that are in force. [[Widow's remorse.]] I understand you don't have to be saying that. And in the framework of the requirement that all of us must apply the compliment of the laws, which you excel at, so that they do not stop repeating to us that the laws are to complete them, and when they are not only not complete, but that you seem not to be satisfied with them already sending us requests and wanting them, I hope that from this political culture that you are preaching will not understand that you have just changed your criteria and say no, that from now on the laws that you approve of this Parliament you will not have to complete them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.59.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. García Albiol.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.60.0	Mr President, the self-named laws of disconnection are not democratic laws. [[remorse of the voice]] It's a bit of a literal state. It's a literal coup d'état. And, Mr President, I would ask you to answer my question: the statements made by Mr Lluís Llach that officials who do not comply with the self-appointed laws will be punished yes or no. Because all the shows, your government, everything that surrounds your government, political action, everything that conveys your day-to-day action, I have to tell you that we find it regrettable and pathetic. Every week we wake up with a new occurrence that exceeds that of the previous week. Before yesterday was Mr Vidal threatening the judges and saying that the Generalitat, the Government of the Generalitat was stealing the tax data from us. Yesterday it was Mr. Junqueras announcing that the unilateral declaration of independence would be called or declared by jumping, flying the rule of law. And today Mr Lluís Llach threatening the officials of the Generalitat. With what new blackmail, with what new threat will we wake up tomorrow? Mr President, if you do not share Mr Llach's statements, the threats to officials, I ask you to disallow him, to disallow him and to request his resignation, as you did with Mr..., with Senator Vidal. Do not unnecessarily extend, Mr President, the agonizing legislature that we are currently living in Catalonia. Act – and I ask you sincerely – with intelligence and responsibility, and call once and for all elections. I hope that, if in Catalan society there is a minimum of self-requirement, self-criticism, in the next elections you will be sent where you deserve it, which is to regenerate yourself and to oxygenate yourself democratically for a time in the opposition. [[Widow's remorse.]] Because neither you – nor you – could have imagined doing so much harm to Catalonia or Catalonia could have fallen so low with you in government. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.61.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.62.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Albiol, you'll have to recognize me as trying to present as a little bit of a state that's a little rare – it's a little rare – huh? It is to say, that a time of state consisted of putting ballot boxes, it consisted of a parliament approving the law and applying it, man, I don't know what concept you have of the times of state, but assemble there, assemble there very much does not assemble there. In any case, let's say, Mr. Albiol, that you are so concerned about the news that these days appear..., you have left some important, but you are not worried, we will have occasion to remember you. But you know that you have been recriminating and retrieving it is strange enough that after a president, of your party, of an autonomous community, you have been calling us pirates in half of Catalans and you have said nothing; you have been told that a Catalan singer has just denounced that he has been vetoed at a concert in Oviedo for you and the Lords of City; you have been reminded that there has been an expression from the government that the Catalans have been harming a person because he is a woman and because he is Andalusian; or you have been reminded that five members of this Bureau are accused, all of trying to and in favor of the democratic debate, that you are trying to say that a member of this Parliament has been accused of criminalizing him. And finally, Mr. Albiol, trying to introduce Mr. Lluís Llach as someone who threatens, who coerces is not only unfair, it is ignorance. Because if anything can credit Mr. Llach's biography... [[Greetings.]] If anything can believe Mr Llach's biography is that he, precisely, has been a victim– victim– of censorship, detention, prohibition, exile people who at the time of the beginning of the political race ruled Mr Franco and when they ended it they were deputies of his political group, like Mr Rodolfo Martín Villa. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Don't worry about it. Don't worry about it.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.63.0	Mr. García Albiol... [[Xavier García Albiol speaks without using the microphone.]] I'm sorry, Mr. Albiol, we said at the control sessions... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. García... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr García Albiol – Mr García Albiol – will have occasion during this session, between today and tomorrow, to respond. We were going to say that at the control sessions we didn't give the word. I can feel it. It's also for the public. [[Funnel veils]] And from the forums that can't be applauded. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. García Albiol... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. García Albiol, we made it very clear to the Board of Spokesmen, very clear, that neither the control session nor the interrogations were given words, it was made very clear. He'll have plenty of time because his group has more interventions. Not now. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]] You don't have the word – you don't have the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For unanimity, agreement of the Junta de Portaveus; for unanimity, Mr García Albiol. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat to answer orally in the plenary on whether the Government has not been very vigilant in cases of corruption]] [[317-00143/11]] Next question to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.64.0	Thank you, President. President, first of all, please transfer from us to Mrs. Neus Munté our escalph, knowing that there are painful and difficult moments at the family and personal level. And let me take back in my question the thread of the conversation or the intercanvi that we had in the last session of control. As you probably remember, at that time I asked him if his government had planned or counted in some way to rescue the Palau de la Música de l'espoli allegedly suffered on account of the irregular financing of Convergence. You answered me and ended up talking to us about whether we made black lists of journalists. Well, these days, the news is full, therefore, of escandols and corruption plots that are shaking the country's capital. And these days, therefore, we have seen Mrs Esperanza Aguirre – in the end, the third one has been defeated – have to resign, Mr. Ignacio González enters the prison and the sound that above Madrid is so assailant that it almost covers the sound of our own national grains. And there's no such thing as the sound of our own granotes in the case of Palau or in the case of Pretória and in other things that everyone has in mind. My question is if you think, as Mrs Esperanza Aguirre recently said, that perhaps you have not been too vigilant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.66.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks, Mr. Rabell, I thank you for your words of affection to the Constellera Munté. I also thank the parliamentary groups that have had the power to cancel today the questions that were addressed to the Councilwoman Munté; not everyone has done so, but I want to thank them for doing so. Mr. Rabell, I can answer the same question as I have answered all the time: in this Government..., all the things that have depended on this Government and which depend on this Government, where there has been a focus, in this Government, in the past and in previous political signs all different, so many explanations have been given, so many investigations have been opened as it is and so many audits have been carried out necessary that..., those that are necessary as to prove that the performance of this Government has always been impeccable and correct. And this has little to do with family heritage, with entities alien to the government, which will obviously have to answer for their responsibilities, as it cannot be otherwise, before justice.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.67.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.68.0	Yes... let me insist. But why am I saying that? Because the other day we also had a recycling interface. You gave us a eulogy of recycling, and we wouldn't want the circular economy to get stuck with the revolving doors, even though it's all moving. I am saying this because we would, perhaps, call for a certain caution: despite the reluctance on the part of the majority who support the government, Mr. Mas is acting as ambassador of the European race process, in different capitals. Look, the scandals that happened and the evidence that accumulating touched people as significant and already confessed as Mr. Prenafeta, Mr. Macia Alavedra; today they have visited Mr. Pujol again; Mr. Pujol junior enters the prison; they exclaim to us, in Barcelona we have concessions to Copisa... This does not stop. Therefore, we want to insist on a call to prudence and accountability on the part of the Government at two levels. First, let's say, with the vagina recycling on account, it doesn't follow that the famous hamster is surrounded by grains, at a given moment. And, second of all, because of what they say to the government, to the responsibility of the government, and, concretely, to the Palau de la Música, we insist on it: in what you have the right and the ability to do to rescue and defend the dignity and interests of Catalan institutions, do so, because they will gain credibility in everything you have told us before. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.70.0	Yeah. What I think is not right is to make a whole revolution, and I think it is good that, given the gravity of the facts that have been learned in the capital of the State or that have happened in Catalonia, given the gravity and transcendence, I think that all folds would do well to move to the citizenry as rigorously as possible. To try to address cases that may have to do indirectly with concessions of governments of the 1990s, principles of the two thousand, with which there are cases of responsibilities for family assets, which they do not want to see, anything else, or with business activities in Catalonia, or with business activities which are directly or not related to administrations, this does not favor rigour. Each one has to answer for what he has to answer for, and if in the Palau de la Música, as we have said so many times as you need, that this government, in the light of a judgment, in the light of certain facts proven, not of indications, prejudices, in the light of certain facts proved and sentenced must act in a certain way, we have said that we will do so. But, I insist, the whole revolution does not help transparency either. And it does not help to make clear corruption, because we have seen that the ramification of corruption up to and including those means of communication that have been abandoned by the discovery of transparency, and that sometimes, behind certain, certain or presumed scandals, there is a partisan intent explicitly directed to cause this effect in order to try to confuse everyone. We remain strict and, at the expense of rigor, the maximum, I insist, the maximum requirement of responsibilities with everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.71.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the date, the question and the preparations of the reference]] [[317-00141/11]] Tretzena asks the President of the Generality about the political situation, formulated for Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. Many honourable President, also, on behalf of our group, convey our affection to the Councilwoman Munté, and allow her to take advantage of the opportunity to congratulate once again the police of Catalonia on their latest operation against Gihadist terrorism. They make us feel secure and proud, and, therefore, thank you. And now the question. The other day, Mr. President, you gathered the government and the other ranks at the Tarongers' Pact to sign a manifesto. I think governments are better than talking through decisions of government, decrees, bills of law, than manifestos. But in any case, we know that you already have the date of the reference. And that is why, Mr President, in defence of the role of the Catalan Parliament and of the need for transparency and democratic quality that we all defend, I ask: when do you intend to call the referendum? With what question? And what concrete preparations are already on the way to summon him, organize him and celebrate him?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.73.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Many thanks, Mr. Iceta, for your words to the Constellera Munté and also to the Mossos d'Esquadra, to which I am enthusiastically and recollecting what seems to me to have expressed to this country as a sense of pride to a police that discreetly, but very professionally, does a job on a front that distresses us all and that forces us to compromise ourselves, to us, with the struggle that other European and world-wide police are developing against a threat that we feel very close to. There's a..., I have to make it a morning, and I didn't say at the moment, and I'm looking for it in the literality, that I have the date on the head. I have dates, and it is my obligation that by the end of September I have considered which are the diumenges that can correspond to it so that they can be better suited because they are useful for making this reference. Therefore, there is no date that I am imagining, no decision is taken, only a few dates that can be useful to the decision that we need to make. In this sense, for what he asks the question, it is exactly the same, but yes, for what he does when I think to announce or when I think to announce, I repeat, that I think I have said it other times, before we go on vacation we will have announced date and question.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.75.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.76.0	Mr President, on November 9, 2014, a participatory process on independence was held. Remember when the date and the question was published? On the 12th of December of 2013, I was almost one year old. The law with which this consultation was intended and this participatory process was processed with complete respect to the procedures, without urgency, without opacity, with the report of the Board of State Guarantees. We believe that, as soon as possible, it is best to communicate to Parliament the extremes of the date, the question and the preparations for this consultation. I, allow 'but let me say, if you already have, that you have, a draft law of prepared legal transitionality, you should present it publicly and I would be convinced that the review in the Legal Advisory Commission and the Council of State Guarantees. You're the most responsible of the generality and you're still in time to try to do things right. Withdraw the proposal to reform the Rules of Parliament, which the only one you are pursuing is to limit the role of opposition, limit filters, reduce controls, which you yourself say will be the most important law in Catalonia today. And I ask you: do not threaten the functioning, do not threaten us all with legal insecurity, the shock of legitimacy and the institutional instability that will result from all this tripijoc that does not bring us anywhere. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.77.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.78.0	Thank you very much. Listen to me, if it was so well done on November 9, if it was so... everyone agreed that it is true: can you tell me why there are disqualifications and people who have lost their democratically chosen sco to represent the citizens in Madrid? [[Greetings.]] Can you tell me why? Can you tell me more, Mr. Iceta, can you tell me, if all this was so, why did they go to the Constitutional? Why are there resources in the Constitution? Why do we have five warnings to the Government of the Generality? Can you tell me why? When we tried to do things as well girls as you described, who was the result? The result was a..., not just a negative sound, but quarrels, disqualifications, threats, to say that for this way not; for this way that, I insist, you say so well done, with all the favorable reports, with all transparency, has not been possible..., can you tell me exactly if the problem is here or is in another place? Look, limiting the role of opposition because it is given more prerogatives in Parliament's Rules than those that it had previously had in relation to single-reading projects is enough – enough – forced, this reading, more quickly is contradictory, because it precisely opens up the possibility of doing what other parliaments in the Spanish State allow the opposition and expands its range of possibilities. And the only menaced, believe me, sit in these corners from here. The only ones we've rejected are us.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.79.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the return of payments and social rights to the functioning]] [[317-00140/11]] Fourteenth question to the President of the Generality on the political situation, formulated for the lady Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.80.0	Thank you, Madam President. I too join in the words of support of other group presidents. A very clear question, Mr President: when does your Government intend to return to Catalan civil servants and public servants the social rights and wages that have been taken away from them in recent years?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.81.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.82.0	As you know, thank you, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, thank you very much. This week or this month will pay the 34_percent of the pay that is still being paid. As you know, the table on which all the restitution calendar of these rights is agreed, and whenever we refer to this question, we always make a promise that it is a great thank you that..., although we arrive at the moment when we can restore them all to what they owe, even at that moment we will still be in debt to them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.83.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.84.0	Thank you, Mr. President. But officials don't have to thank him for paying him a part of the 2012 pay, because they still have 20_per_cent to collect and they haven't paid him anything from 2013 or 2014. And not only have they not been paid back, they have not defined the timetable for repayment which, according to a proposal from this Parliament, should have been defined more than a year ago, as the unions themselves say. Moreover, with you interinity has risen from 22 to 26_per_cent. A rate well above the Spanish average. And then, yes, they make electoral promises to call places that have not even consulted with the unions and that are absolutely insufficient. Convergence and Esquerra have achieved one thing and it is that the Catalan officials are the ones who have had the most cuts, those who will later collect from all of Spain and those who suffer the most precarious. That's right, we're the autonomous community with the highest positions and where they charge the most. But, as if this were little, a Member of yours – and not just anyone but the one who led the list by Girona, that is, that you campaigned with Mr Llach in the past elections – is dedicated to threatening officials with textual phrases – I don't know if you think this is a threat to you –: « officials will be punished, « they will have to think very well and « many of them will suffer. These are the words that Mr Llach said and you applaud him. It is shameful, Mr Puigdemont, you should defend the officials and not defend Mr Llach. [[Greetings.]] It also refers to laws that you are going to pass here in hiding and with parliamentary votes representing a minority of Catalans, which I remind you that the opposition groups represent more Catalans than the two groups that you are going to support the laws. If you don't have a majority to change the Statute, will you declare independence? But what kind of game is this? Look, doctors, nurses, cops, teachers, they're not to blame – they're not to blame – for their mismanagement or their separatist obsession. Leave Catalan officials alone, pay them what they owe, get them the places they need and don't threaten them if they don't want to follow in their obsession with separatist disobedience. You think you are the masters of the officials, the owners of the Parliament and the owners of Catalonia, but luckily you are none of these things. Your time is running out and before you leave, please answer me the question of why the return schedule has not been defined and why, as we have seen, the unions say that you have not counted for them either for the places or for the return schedule. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.85.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.86.0	Yeah. Mrs. Arrimadas, you know that there is a Negotiating Table, you know that there is a dialog, you know that it has been switched and put at the bottom of all the representatives all the information and all the circumstances. You will insist that all this is not true, and you will say one thing that is not true, that is that the call for seats has been hidden when you work. So, no. He went through the negotiating table. I already know that you will repeat it and that you will see that you have not heard it and that you will say that..., or that you may find someone who will say that exactly not, but it is that you have been like this. And I know it's hard because it's not an opinion, it's a fact. And it's a resounding fact, because you just said here a falsehood. You just said that the public offer that this government has announced and that it's on the assumption has been hidden when you're working. And they ask him to review it because it's not true. Because this, look, hangs on to certain circumstances, but playing with them will work as you are doing, I think you say very little – say very little – of the work that would bring you close to controlling the government. You claim..., and we make it ours because we carry many years, many years committed to the self-government of this country– many years–, even in years that have not been allowed to call for any public offer, not because and will of this government, in this case, we have also been at the side of you, but not everyone can say the same. If you really want to defend the workings, I've asked you many times to show it by example. For example, when you talk about teaching functions, that you respect a little more and that you respect the application of the law, that you respect the application of the Law of Education, that you respect the law of linguistic immersion, that you respect the functions of education in this country and that I stop putting them under suspicion that they are part of this chain of adoption, that you have so joyfully escaped in the communication media that, well generously – now we know why – they open their doors; or that I stop not talking about public servants who work in public communication media, only because they contain some information or some programs that are not in the context of this section. If they want to defend the workings and public servers, the first thing they have to do is preach with the example. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the desire, compromise and determination of the citizens to vote in the referendum on independence]] [[317-00144/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the latest political events, formulated by Mr Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.88.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Many honorable president, this diumenge passed, again, the feast of Sant Jordi was a round success, flashing and without pal·liatius, of civics, of participation, of culture, of coexistence, of traditions, of books, of roses; in short, of affirming the best values to which all society can aspire. Carrers full and full of people of all scale and condition. Those who try to present the Catalan society as crumpled, confronted, threatened, etcetera, will again be left with a nose pad. Catalonia saw transcendent moments, saw decisive moments. And just what is proposed from Catalonia, which is to vote to decide and decide to live better, also accompanied by the best values of Sant Jordi : of citizenship, participation, affirmation, freedom. Those who say that the ballot box faces and divides, and that they present the proposal of this Parliament and of its Government and of a vast majority of citizens on the margin or far from Sant Jordi's experience, are simply installed in another galaxy. Why also for Sant Jordi, that everyone goes out on the street, the political parties also go out on the street, they have little road to share the party, including those who say that the day of Sant Jordi is not to be politicized, what for it itself contradictory, right? And also in this Sant Jordi, and we want to put it in value, we have seen people and people coming from the country and more signing in favor of the referendum. There is no propaganda and there is no more propaganda, so they are available to gather this signature of this will of the citizens to vote and to demonstrate the absolute cross-section. The previous divender to Sant Jordi, president, the government made an act of unity, compromise and determination to organize, convene and celebrate the referendum. But today we want to refer more to the city than they can prove on this day of Sant Jordi. That is why, President, we want to ask you: what value does the President and his Government value in the desire, compromise and determination of the citizens of Catalonia to be able to vote and that this reference is celebrated and organised? Thank you very much, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Turull. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.90.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Turull, if any day could embrace better than any other the cross-cutting desire of Catalans to vote and to do so in the Catalan way, which is in a coveted way, this is a question of Sant Jordi's day, of all the hope that retreats. It has cost us, not years, decades, and sacrifices, to make hear, even in the conjunct of the Spanish State, which represented Sant Jordi. I look at it, years, years and years, participating, organizing Sants Jordis, and finally – finally – and better later than ever, the values and hope with which from the bottom – from the bottom – and even against the Spanish governments of the moment, the Sant Jordi has been built, finally, these values begin to inspire not only the Spanish State, but they begin to be accepted as values of universal inspiration. And we are proud, very – very – because it is a genuinely Catalan contribution; it is to say, not of institutions, not of politics, of people. And people think of very different ways, as was seen by Sant Jordi. What did you see for Sant Jordi? So, the image of a country that is far from where sad some in our home try to explain when they went around the world, far from being a divided country; it was a united country. And the behaviour of Sant Jordi, with millions of people on the street, with parades of all tendencies, with authors of all opinions, was settled without incident, as they might have, perhaps..., as he lamented more than one, surely, in the intimacy, because they were already dedicated to scalding the day, warning that it could be politicized and that there could be... So, look, nothing happened. It did happen: it happened that once more this town when it is mobilized does it with the weapons that characterise a civilized and religious people, that it is coexistence, respect, and above all with a lot and a lot of celebration. That is why it seemed to us, as the government, to the government, that if there had also been a proper _marc to be able to explain this compromise with all Catalans, it is to say, with yes and no, or with those who do not want to vote, with all Catalans, that it is to put them in a position to express themselves, as they have done in France and as they do in France from time to time two weeks ago, and not precisely as the reflection of a divided society, therefore, was at the turn of the day of St. Jordi, which explains to us very well to the world, and which explains to us, despite many bad people who did not want to do so, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best way, in the best, in the best way, in the best, in the best, in the best, in the best of the best, in the world, the best, in the best, in the best, in the best, in the best, in the best of the best, in the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best of the best of the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, the best, Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.91.0	Thank you, President. After the control session, we pass now to the next point of the order of the day. [[Pause.]] Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.92.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.93.0	What article?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.94.0	A point of order related to the development of the session. First of all, also, to convey on behalf of the Popular Group, also, a hug and our affection to the lady Munté, and then, to make a consideration to the band.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.95.0	In any case, when I have use of the word. Then I think that Mr Santi Rodríguez has an intervention on the third point of the order of the day. [[Funnel veils]] And you can do it, 'cause I guess...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.96.0	For a point of order, you can ask for the word. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I don't... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Look, if... it's very simple. Effectively...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.97.0	Mr. Fernández, at the Board of Portaveus we stayed to say the article...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.98.0	It's just that it's not the control session anymore...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.99.0	... that we would say what article and that we would not give words in either a control session or an inquiry, and we would say the article.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.100.0	Article 17, courtesy of the deputies. [[Pause.]] Article 17, courtesy of the deputies. It's what we call the point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.101.0	That's a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.102.0	The Board of Spokespersons, in effect, approved unanimously that no reply could be made to allusions in the inquiries and in the control session. What was not clear on the Board of Spokesmen, because I see that it is not clear, is that it is up to you to guarantee the order and call attention when it produces an insult as flagrant as the President of the Government of Catalonia has done. [[applause]] Because this is not the ANC, this is the Parliament of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.103.0	That's exactly what I did, Mr. Fernández, that's exactly what I did. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] And that's why I told him that when you have the use of the word you can do it. [[Communication to the plenary on the composition of the months of the commissions (art. 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure)]] The second point of the order of the day is: communication to the Plenary of the composition of the months of the commissions. In accordance with Rule 49.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the composition of the months of the committees shall be communicated to the plenary. As this month's composition is included in the Ple's file, which has already been distributed to all Members, I would like to ask them if they can be exempted from their reading. [[Pause.]] Completing the rule 49.2, we now move to the next point of the order of the day. [[Proposition of tax law on non-productive acts of legal persons]] [[202-00044/11]] The third item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a tax law on non-productive acts of legal persons. In accordance with Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, we shall begin the debate with the intervention of the parliamentary groups which have reserved lists to defend them in the plenary; later, the other parliamentary groups will intervene to determine their position. In the first place, has the word the Lord Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. [[Long break.]] Mr. Congressman, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.104.0	Good morning and thank you very much, Madam President. Good morning, also, Mr Vice-President, Members, Members and people accompanying us. Today, in this Parliament, a proposal for a law on the tax on non-productive assets of the legal persons who presented Junts pel Yes and the CUP and to which Citizens will not give support because this law is based on three pillars, in three reasons, which we do not share at all. The first reason why the presentation justifies this proposition of law – and thus is reflected in the explanatory statement – is to contribute to the redistribution of wealth. And, of course, to our consideration, this is the first fallacy contained. MPs and MPs, same Director General of Tributes, huh? , appearing in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs, told us that "recaptancy will be small and should be zero. Well, well, Members of this House, if the collection is very small, going to zero, what redistribution function is it going to have? The most elementary logic leads us to affirm that it cannot be other than pauperrima, very small or even zero. This is common sense. So poor will it be that we can stand before a tax figure that is the most unproductive of all the tributes proper to the Generalitat. We can be faced with a situation where management and inspection costs are most likely not to justify the existence of the tax itself. We can be faced with a situation in which, as we have established, and that is why we have said in an amendment, there will be virtually no income. And that is why we want the Generalitat to present on 1 September 2017 a report on the effective application of the tax explaining the cost-benefit of this tax figure. Look, since the '90s, since the '90s, from the last century, huh? , of the last century, property taxes have been virtually eliminated from all the countries where they had been – and in some countries they had not even been. This has happened in Germany, Sweden, Denmark, Austria, etc.. So that today and in the European Union only exist in Spain and France. And if we zoom in, if we zoom in, and look at it within the OECD framework, we can include only three more countries: Norway, Sweden and Iceland. We therefore undoubtedly see a clear trend towards the abolition of the capital tax. And why this trend? For, of course, the countries that have been abolishing the tax or property taxes have not done so because they have renounced the distribution of wealth – it is obvious: Sweden, Germany –; they have done so because it is not a proper tax figure to carry out the aforementioned redistribution of wealth, as it generates precisely a scant collection as well as other added problems. Well, when modern tax systems around the world are in the line of eliminating the property tax, here in Catalonia, with the new proposal of law we want to record the most; we want, in reality, to re-register the taxes, to double the tax. And all this, for what? – all this, for what? – because, of course, you say « to see..., and the answer we find it precisely in the statement made to us by the Director General of Tributes: collect a little bit. A tax figure to collect a little bit. Good. So little that the Government has not established a minimum forecast of income from this bill. The Government, in fact, does not provide for income because it does not expect to raise them, and because it does not believe in this proposal. And he knows – he knows – that it is a toast to the sun to content the CUP. Clearly, it is quite clear that this tax will be adopted in order to thank the CUP for approving the budgets. The second reason why the proposal for a law is justified according to the explanatory statement is a genuine ideological prejudice. A prejudice that is not other than that of considering that companies should not have – they should not have – goods that are not strictly devoted to the productive activity of the same. And if you have them, if you think you have them, you have to punish the – you have to punish the – with more taxes. Members of Parliament, this prejudice prevents us from seeing that it is the companies that know best that their investments must be fundamentally geared towards being more efficient, productive and competitive. Companies know better than anyone that to survive they need to be efficient and competitive. Companies don't need to be re-registered with new taxes. The competitiveness of companies is not incompatible with having goods not affected by the activity, which of course they have to tax, which they logically have to tax, but they must not be re-recorded precisely as intended with this proposal of law. You already know or should know that if a company incorporates a real estate, a boat, a vehicle to its assets, to its assets, it will then increase the value of the shares or shares held by the shareholders or participants, and that, therefore, those shareholders or participants will pay a 20_per_percent more in their IRPF. They are therefore already taxing that property, that vessel or that vehicle. They also know or should know that if a company sells free of charge or rents a property, a boat or a vehicle, whether to owners, partners or participants, or other related entities, it will have to tax for a rental at market price and pay – pay –, tax 25_per_cent of the rental amount through corporation tax. Do we have to record with 1_per_cent what a 25 already contributes by companies? The goods that this bill intends to record are already registered by the property tax, which only exempts, eh? , those goods affected by the activity and, therefore, productive. Since the goods that are intended to be recorded are already registered by the property tax, from our point of view we are facing an unfounded double taxation. And, from our view, this new proposal for a law is in contravention of article 6 of the Organic Act on the Financing of the Autonomous Communities, of the LOFCA, which states that taxes established in the autonomous communities or established by the autonomous communities shall not fall on taxable acts recorded by the State or by local taxes. And this law will affect taxable acts already recorded by the State and by local entities. The third reason given in the statement of reasons for creating the tax on non-productive assets is to avoid tax evasion in the property tax. And curiously, it is said that the success on this occasion will be conditioned, determined by the fact that for this tax will be taken into account the registers, the censuses: the register of the cadastre, for the real estate, and that of the vehicles, aircraft, ships..., for these respective goods also the records that have or that census all those goods. Good. And thanks to that use of such censuses or records there will be fewer productive assets that escape taxation. But I ask myself, and I ask you, and I refer you to the question: if these records already exist and are to be used for the new tax, why are they not used for the current and existing property tax and thus avoid existing fraud? Well, I just don't get it. We do not think it is the most appropriate mechanism to create a new tax to avoid the circumvention of another which already exists. What is needed is: one, to cover the holes in the tax already in force; two, in any case, to update the records that would serve us to combat fraud; and third, to establish inspection plans to prevent leakage, that is, tax evasion. For us, the solution does not go through a new law and publish more pages, fattening the Diario Oficial de la Generalitat de Catalunya. The solution is to improve the regulation of the current property tax. The solution is through inspection proceedings that bring goods that are not affected by economic activities and that are taxed by the property tax. What is needed is for the Catalan Tax Agency to do inspection work and to fight against the possible fraud in the property tax that we have given up. The Catalan Tax Agency, in collaboration with the state tax agency, what it must do is to bring about the possible fraud because, being a tax transferred to the Generalitat, each euro collected would represent an income for its budget, for that of the Generalitat and for the improvement of Catalans. And we have a very special reason for the tax agency's action to be really effective. Finally, I would like to make two points. It seems incredible to us that the actual value of the different assets or assets is not taken into account in determining the charges associated with the respective assets or assets. We find it incredible that, to establish the real value of a property, a vessel, for example, is not taken into account the amount of the living debt for the loan that was requested for its purchase. Doesn't that seem incredible to you? And equally incredible, it seems to us that the minimum exemptions have been abolished. It is the main measure of progressiveness in any tax – it is the main measure of progressiveity in any tax – in any tax. Of course, care should be taken to avoid, precisely in order to avoid tax evasion, that this exemption was linked to all groups of companies, but at all events to abolish the exemption, at all events to cancel the exemption. In short, the new proposal for a law does not improve the redistribution of wealth, it does not have the minimum collection for it, it does not contribute to increasing the competitiveness of companies, it will probably affect the reduction and, of course, it does not combat tax evasion. In fact, it has no more instruments than those already available for property tax, so I expect no less tax avoidance because we create a new law. What this new tax does contribute is to increase the number of own taxes created by the Generalitat and which places Catalonia above the average of the autonomous communities in the creation of taxes. And, of course, that honor that Catalans are among those who pay the most taxes is an honor that Citizens are not going to contribute to. Thank you very much and good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.105.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiny. Then, in order to defend the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Lord Óscar Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.106.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Vice-President, Members, Members, from the Socialist Group we will expose the position to the Rule of Law on the non-productive acts of legal persons who have brought to us the companies of Junts for the Yes and the UPC. A new tax that has as its objective to record non-product assets of companies, or then, assets, properties that are not used to produce assets, to produce services – ships, planes, cars... And then we have added joys, works of art, etc. Allow me, before we begin the presentation of the defence of our vote, to say that from the Socialist Group, and in particular the Member who speaks to them, therefore, it has been difficult for us to know the procedure used, the methods used, above all because we, from our group, in a very humble but also sincere way, had given our hands to the proposing groups, we voted against the threat to the totality that the Group of the People's Party had presented, with the idea of bringing forward, improving and with the idea of what some of the fellows said. Those comparisons that they also said they wanted to be loaded and that at the last minute we were able to do them. « Home, then, since we are..., and some of the fellows said: « I would not have done this tax, but since we are, we try to improve it, we try to bring..., and always can take something positive. It's true that everything is denied, well, it's lying that everything is denied, but it can be brought in... And on this line we presented papers, on this line we tried to contribute to it. And, certainly with disappointment, we see, so, how did the rodeo go, how they did not take our opinion into account, as, in fact, I have the feeling that from the start they had already decided the final result and did not matter to them the least that could be our opinion, our contribution. And in today's vote, as in the opinion we voted for in the committee, we also saw this. We will divide our intervention on the basis of two reflections. The first one about the content of the law and the second one about the procedure, when we hear matusser, correct, used for the companies of Junts for the Yes, of the CUP and, obviously, some of the limitations that it also has and the doubts that we have, that we pose them here, on the law that today will surely approve. On the content of the law, we agree on the opposite – obviously, in this rhetoric that they keep us all folded – to promote progressive fiscal measures that avoid the terrible increase of social inequalities. It has been said a long time ago: we need a tax model in Catalonia just, fair, different; learn from what has worked and obviously change all those exemptions, bonuses and taxes that have proved to be useless and that do nothing more than facilitate the things to which you have more and make each time pay more than what you have less. About 22_percent of families in the country at risk of social exclusion. When you tell us, more than that, the entries boost a 2.8_per_cent. The families..., or so, the middle is that there's more money and it turns out that the last five years is the year that's at the most risk, the most families at risk of social exclusion, with a 22_per_cent. So something's not going well. And if we're precisely at that point in time where we have to redefine who Catalonia's position is in a lot of themes, man, so that would be a good time to say who Catalonia's tax model is. How can we establish fairer and fairer tax standards? And for what it looks like we're not going on the road, the more the contrary. During the appearances it was evident, as we have said, some advantages of this law, however, of shortcomings and contradictions, if you say so. In our view, some of these are not solved with the ideas that have been agreed together for the Yes and the CUP: works of art, joys, about merit, about the passive subject, about the tax type; modifications that some of us can share, of others not. Isn't it a tax fraud problem that we're talking about here today? Is the tax fraud changing with a law or is it changing with more control, with more inspections, with more collaboration between the different tax agencies to pursue the payment of the one to which it belongs? And, above all, to get him to pay the one he has most. Why don't we change the income tax? Catalonia is under the..., the Catalan tram is under the middle, on the upper trams, under the middle Spanish, and on the lower trams, on the other hand, is over the middle Spanish. Why didn't we play estates and donations? Or why didn't we touch the estate tax? I think it's a big contradiction, especially for the Yes and the Group that supports it, from the CUP, that's pouring into the law that we have today. Will this law cover or compensate for this lack of tax model in Catalonia? This lack of struggle against the tax fraud? No, no, Will it cover, this lost opportunity in the debate of assumptions or fiscal measures not to touch assets, not to touch successions to change this law? No, no, This law, as you say with its antecedents, with data from the Bank of Spain – is fine, that it seems that the Bank of Spain is a reference with the data it presents – will redistribution and equity improve? Or, as you said publicly in the media, is it a tax against great fortunes? It's not a tax on big fortunes or on the rich, no. It is an imposition – what some have also said – that what they want is that there is less tax fraud. Listen, if there's a tax fraud, if there's someone who puts the private car in private use in the name of the company, that's what you can't do – that's what you can't do – so maybe we're chasing it. And the cheat, if we keep him a new law, then he'll find some other way to cheat. So... apart from the difficulties in controlling it. What else? Impost of great fortunes? We agree. It is precisely what it is to corner, what it is to squeeze legislation to the maximum in order to try that the great fortunes of this country, the great business groups, to corner them between Catalan legislation and Spanish legislation, so to try that they do not escape, that they pay – that they pay, that they pay – because, obviously, they pay little. Therefore, it is not an imposition on the rich and, obviously, if we wanted to pursue the tax fraud, we could have done it in some other way or, if not, say so. As I was commenting on comparisons, and as I said later, it is curious that it is done just after the Tax Measures Act, no change in important taxes. The law has fourteen articles, five dispositions, the original text. A total of forty papers have been submitted. The Socialist Party Group has presented eleven papers; it has not been accepted. I think it's the first time I've ever been involved in a pose and I don't think there's anything wrong with it, no compromise, and even all the things that came together enough to be presented together for the Yes and the CUP. I don't know – I don't know. Sometimes, even though it is to be seen, the opposition is heard, so it would have been a deal with our group, we were willing. Therefore, we only accept, I understand, the denous Juntes for the Yes and the CUP and a small last-minute item, on the day of the commission, on the eight_metres of the ships, to eliminate the eight_metres. Aspects they share. The clarification that they do not produce seems good to us. The best in the definition of the passive subject, which, in addition, the comparators said it would be better, business group or business group. The taxable base of vehicles, boats, and add..., here we had some doubts about works of art, about antiques, joys; above all for a question of control, control. About the merit they say Junts for the Yes and the CUP the 1 of generation of each year. And other technical aspects. That's where we come in. Other items that we don't understand from Junts for the Yes: deserved it. Exceptionally they say 2017 will be June 30. I believe, and even so – that there is the Economic Advisor here – I believe that this is a little harsh to say will be the 1st generation. But you can't say it, because as 2017 electorally interests us what it is, we will do it exceptionally in 2017 on June 30. The fiscal calendar must not be confused with the electoral calendar. Fiscal calendar: it's the one that plays, seriously, and every year the same. As this year we are interested in keeping it..., well, "mark packages before the summer, so now this year we do it exceptionally in June. I think... we don't agree and obviously we'll vote against it. That no objection has been accepted except for this one that we have said of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, much in the morning; that only a meeting of the ponies has been made, I believe that, obviously, here there are many more things to talk about. As they say to the motius exhibition, a redistributive and economic growth tax – a little too ambitious with respect to what we are talking about – is much more concrete, will have little recaptancy, little redistribution, and, therefore, a little ambitious mass. The Socialist Party's proposals. We defended that there was a lack of time for everyone, so you know, you know, you know the law and, obviously, the one you wanted to activate those unproductive acts. The deduction of expenses. We also proposed, above all, that we compare it with the assets tax, that we see..., the object is that it is paid tax on assets, but above all it is not paid less through this tax. And we have not understood how they have made a series of changes, how they have eliminated the exemption of five hundred and one hundred thousand euros, it is eliminated with their reviews. Therefore, we are speaking, that some headline had also seen: "The luxury floors will be paid for. No – no –, it will pay any import, any value of all good interests will pay this tax. And obviously, too, deductions have been eliminated, which here too there are some doubts about legality, because it collides with other taxes that say that certain benefits must be able to deduct certain expenses. I'll leave it here. Second point. I said: they are technical fears, there are fears of discrepancy in the procedure and in the press to approve this imposition. We, as I said, voted against the threat to totality; in favour of it being framed, therefore. As I said, no negotiation, complicated to make the appearances, little time, no acceptance. Without any transaction, without any negotiation, without any concession, we cannot deal with a law. Because, obviously, neither the government, nor the Group of Joints for the Yes, nor the opposition groups have the absolute truth; all of us would have to listen to each other and sometimes it may be better to expand a little, not overly, the things in time to try to make everyone feel minimally represented. So, where we complain sometimes about passing the rodet, an example of rodet. Are you in a hurry? , that they surely need to make up for the criticisms or explain why they did not vote in favour of touching some of the important taxes, that they are the ones that really suppose more of us and those that really can affect more of this redistribution of wealth? Surely, but I believe that things have to be done when it touches and how it touches, and not later, covering holes with this tax, to store, therefore, what we did not do in his day. Fiscal policy, I think it is obvious, there are other priorities, but fiscal policy is not a priority of this legislature. At least we have to turn it around like a medium or do a general repositioning or try to see, let's see what should be the model of the proper two years. Therefore, there has been a continuousist management and a continuousist policy of the tax model that we will obviously not change with this law. Therefore, we, from our group, will abstain, we will not vote against – we will not vote against –, we will abstain from the items that have been imposed, untouchable, by Juntes for the Yes and the UPC; we will support the items of the rest of the opposition groups that coincide with what we have presented; obviously, we will support our own, as it cannot be otherwise, and we will abstain from the rest of the text of the law. We would have liked to make a more worked-out, more consensual proposal, with a larger majority. It seems to us that it was the one who played; without widening it or delaying it too much in time, but obviously, so that forms them in politics, the dialogue in politics is also important. They say..., I end up saying, as the CUP companies often say, when the other day I defended a proposal on depopulation: "I need to go to the scene of the problem. We agree. « Let's get to the bottom of the problem. I ask: is this law going to the problem? You're obviously not. Legitimate object, the one to defend this law. And as much as it is, but it is discredited by the facts, it is discredited by the parliamentary wisdom that we have experienced. And that, obviously, when someone gives us lessons, they should also apply, they should practice them, because then, obviously, we will not build a better country. Tax system is fairer. And so, not a piece to cover up the support of the CUP government for unfair assumptions, continuous assumptions and taxes that are a reminder to this country. We gave the hand to Juntes for the Yes, to the UPC, we said it in parliamentary session, here in plenary, and we said it informally and formally, and what we refused to change is a bunch. Therefore, it will not be for us, at all, that this tax is approved but obviously – obviously – we will not laugh at them the thanks of covering more holes to give support to a premise that is not just, to taxes that are not going to go away and, obviously, to a law that is short for what they have said they want to do all the folds. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.107.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. Next, to defend the papers presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, has the word Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.108.0	Thank you, Madam President. Good morning to everyone, Mr. Vice President of the Government. The position of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, you know, it is critical with this bill, with this bill's proposal, but just for the radically opposed reasons expressed by the spokesman of Ciutadans and expressed at the time that of the People's Party. We have already had the opportunity to set our position around this issue. We are very much afraid – we are very much afraid – that we are before a bill that acts only as a placebo law, which has as its object to make it see, to make it believe that it is a progressive fiscal policy to tax the assets when, in fact, what is done is to try to cover up a much harder, much more transcendent, pre-emptive decision that has been renounced, one of the toughest renouncements that have been experienced during this legislature, a triple waiver. A renunciation to exercise the powers of self-government in fiscal matters, which are already available and which no one is discussing, just at the moment when we are claiming more sovereignty, full fiscal sovereignty. Secondly, the renunciation to make pay more to what they have most to attend to the needs of those who most need it; and, thirdly, the renunciation to provide more resources for social policies. This is not about any waiver, because it affects fiscal policy, which I think we all agree is one of the most important signs of identity of the model of society that we all defend – and in the debates these are seen very clearly. The government's renunciation of the tax reform of the IRPF's Catalan tram, the inheritance and donation tax, the assets tax, makes it possible to know who is the model of society that Juntes pour el Si propusa. It is a model of society with a very unfair, regressive taxation and, which is harder, it makes us presage what some of us fear, and it is that Together for the Yes claim more fiscal sovereignty but not to exercise it only for, once I have it, to renounce it for the benefit of capital, of assets, of the market, of the markets. Or so, to be more Ireland than Sweden or Denmark, and this has been seen in the debate of assumptions and the Law of Accompanying a few weeks ago. It is for this reason, in our understanding and cautiously, that I believe that the object of this bill's proposal, in short, is to offer only a placebo to try to clear up some ill-awareness about which has been the renunciation to make tax policy in truth about the competitions that is already available at this time. I want to make one thing quite clear: we do not doubt that the CUP's sincere objective was to record the great fortunes, an object we share, is the name that was initially put on it to advertise this proposal for the law, but I hope that everyone agrees with me that the result is far from this tax of the great fortunes, not even so close. In this sense, well, this proposal of law can work as a menu of consolation law, a consolation law to try to cover, cover but not compensate, neither in political terms nor in terms of recaptancy, that it has renounced to make the fiscal reforms that can be done and could not be done. And I think that, in addition, this comfort law character has become manifest throughout the process, right? And it is not presented by the Government, it is presented by two groups, legitimately, without any problem, as proposed by the Law, which excludes the Government from the responsibility to submit a memo; excludes the Government from the possibility of presenting an opinion of the Council of Labour, Economic and Social; excludes the Government, after all, from the obligation to quantify the forecasts of its entries. I mean, we're doing something that's in a cloud of undefined in a very clear way. The emergency statement doesn't seem to help anything either; already, you may cry from home, but you may also say that this doesn't help a thing of this significance. And then the way the debate went, so, well, I think I could have done a little better. From this perspective, frankly, I believe that the urgency with which this bill has been dealt with, which is a political urgency, because it comes at a certain point in time, very connected with the approval of the law accompanying the assumptions, has not really helped an object that I believe we share many groups, proposers and some that we have criticized, that is to try in the measure of the possible improvement of this law in their parliamentary debate. The result, from the point of view of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, is that today is the door to debate and to final vote in this plenary a proposal of law which, in our opinion, confirms us in our main objections. It is a proposition of law that neither of the world is the tax on the great fortunes that has been announced; nor is it just the tax on Bildu to the Diputation of Guipúscoa, it is evident, among other things, for a clever thing that we denounce and that we want to contribute to change, and it is that the Government of the Generality has in these fiscal matters less powers than the Diputation of Guipúscoa, which means, from this perspective, a veritable aberration of fiscal nature. This proposal for a law does not, nor does it at all, compensate for the renunciation of a genuine tax reform, and does not, I insist, insist on it, neither politically nor with its supposed capacity for recaptancy, that we have to see it. And this proposal of law, in our view, has significant risks, even the risk of not just seeing the light, of not applying itself concretely. Because some of the people who appeared to us saw something that we have said not to put water in the sight, but because it is present, and it is that the way in which it came about carries a risk that it is considered that a tax is being imposed on a taxable fact that is already taxed by another tax, with which, from this perspective, it would clearly be incorrect to comply with the LOWCA and would be object of appeal, which I fear is something that we will find before here. And, of course, the truth, frankly, I don't think the citizens of Catalonia will ever make it up to them that, if that happens, then we raise our eyes and criticize that once again they won't let us exercise our fiscal powers. Because it gives the curious circumstance that when we have no difficulty in exercising they do not practice, and then we are always at the edge of the knife making these questions, which seems to me good, whenever it is not given up on what can be done without legal and political discussion. And, fourthly, the fourth fundamental objection is that, even though all these obstacles are coming to pass..., I would like to be very, sincerely wrong, and that is why our plan to contribute to improving it and our final vote, which will be favorable, I would like to be mistaken, but I am very afraid that the recaptancy that this tax will have will be absolutely insignificant, from this point of view, in the event that it can get to hold it. I insist, I'd like to be wrong in that sense. And that, in a sense of doubt, would be a drama, from the point of view of the expectations that some have created them want to say to this the tax of great fortunes. What would also be a drama is that, in the end – in the end – the only utility that would have had the presentation of this bill's proposal is to act as placebo law to alleviate ill-consciousness about giving up a real tax reform on tax transfers, a waiver made by the Catalan government. It is from this political value that we, once rejected the challenge to the totality, decided that we could work in positive terms, to try to improve our content as much as possible. And, if I haven't misinterpreted it, they're admitted, in a rather unsatisfactory way, because I think there might have been something more..., the proposed groups together for the Yes and the CUP have accepted two of us, such as transactional ones, the 6th and the 23rd. The first is that it refers to the disappearance of the concept of exclusion from the tax of vessels of less than eight metres in length. Honestly, no one has been able to explain to us why this differentiation. Because, from this perspective, what makes a good unproductive or productive is not the length of the boat, how many meters of length it has, but what is the use it is given, whether it is in the service of the enterprise or in the private service of a person who camouflages it, despite being entrepreneurial assets. Fortunately, this has changed, from our point of view, and we value it positively. And also the item number 23, which coincides with the one presented by Junts for the Yes and the CUP, with the disappearance of Article 7 of the minimum exempt from €500,000. And it's one of the things that we obviously disagree with Ciutadan's criticisms and share what is ultimately the text that has been approved. We sincerely believe that some of our papers could have been incorporated, among other things, because they say, practically, literally, the same as other papers presented for Juntes for the Yes and the CUP. But on the other hand, it didn't happen and it didn't trade, did it? Well, some just incorporating them into a broader element. We value positively the fact that in the end, joyousness has been incorporated as likely to form part of the taxable fact. We believe that Article 1 on the object of import has been better drafted from a technical point of view. Now, curiously, at least the reading that I am doing is that precisely this major clarification of the most likely fact, still, to be challenged by reason of taxing taxable facts that are already taxed for other taxes that previously exist. But, well, in any case technically it's better defined. It has also been solved better than the issue of territoriality, that is to say with regard to those assets located in Catalonia that are owned or held by passive subjects who have residence outside Catalonia. I think that's better technically. This was a problem, one of the problems, of the initial drafting, which, moreover, allows me to cry out the attention that poses to manifest the difficulties of taxation of any country – of autonomous Catalonia, of independent Catalonia, of Sweden, of France... – to tax assets and capital in a context of a very globalized economy and of highly distributed tax competitions between different levels of administration. In this sense, I allow myself to reflect that it is confirmed once more that in fiscal matters about capital and assets every new political frontier is an opportunity for dumping and tax evasion. And it would be good not to lose sight of the debate we have at these times in our country. I also believe that you have better drafted Article 4 with the enlargement of the subject-matter included what we have called 'beneficial communities'. It's one of the things that I think you could have accepted, but go, I won't complain; you did a writing that says exactly the same, but you didn't accept the transaction, but we honestly believe that, in the end, the final writing, although we didn't accept ours, is better. And from this point of view, I just said that we didn't just hear it yet because you didn't accept ideas that we think are sincerely reasonable, to us and to other groups, that would improve the text, and that, therefore, would improve the work of the same drivers. I want to quote some of them. For example, our theme number 3, where we establish a presumption iuris tantum in favour of considering not producing good those that are being used continuously but not permanently. Because, in fact, this is a very common reality, in these types of situations that they want to avoid, because it is an attempt to prevent the mere fact of private use that is not permanent and exclusive of a good from exploding this good from the consideration of taxable fact. We do not understand it; we sincerely believe that it was an expression of our willingness to help improve the text after our initial criticisms, but well. Or the item number 5, in which we propose the reduction of charges and charges as criteria for the calculation of the taxable base. But I would especially like to call attention to the rebreed that you have had of the item number 8. I'm saying because you were... we were talking to the two spokespersons, and I at a certain point had the illusion that you were going to accept it, and at the end I saw that the most conservative view was imposed, with the double sense of the word. We have established a progressive scale of full quota, which, moreover, coincides with what we have proposed with the tax of assets, for reasons of consistency, and another time more conservative and right-wing version of the government has been imposed, in fiscal terms, and has poured in the drivers of this bill. And lastly, there's one thing, honestly, that worries us, that I think it has to do with the placebo character that you want to give to this law proposal and the need to generate images and to generate images now, right? That the merit is made the 1st generation of each year, no problem, but that in relation to 2017 it is planned to do it on June 30, 2017, sincerely, to see, is that it is not credible, it is about a new tax, that it will be necessary to advertise, that it is based on self-liquidation, that it is based on self-liquidation on which it is assumed that people who until now were making fraud or tax evasion declare that they were making fraud and tax evasion and decide to be subject to another tax. And, that, all prepared for June 30, 2017. Well, I'm afraid not, am I? And I'm very afraid that I can go back... – it's a shame that it went to..., it's coming in and out, it's not critical, it's just a finding, but I liked to talk to him too, with the vice president... –, I'm very afraid that I'm going to go back to the same time as I did with the tax on sweet drinks: we approve it in the accompanying bill debate and forty-four hours after the government agrees that it can't apply it and it has to make a decree to change the deadline for its entry into force. To say that the merit of this will be on June 30, 2017 I sincerely believe that it is to confirm once more that we are before a law that the foundational merit is to generate images that you want to do something to cover everything that you did not want to do. Well, after this appreciation, which, as you may... have tried to combine political criticism with this law proposal, but especially with the government's fiscal policy, which we believe has been one of the most shameful renunciations of this legislature, together with the positive aspects that we have valued so much of the ideas that have been accepted as those that have incorporated together for the Yes and the UPC that we can share, I conclude by commenting that, despite our skepticism, a skepticism based on the reasonable doubt that this went to something concrete, we will end up supporting this..., at the entry into force, to the approval of this law proposal, waiting, sincerely, for this to be the wrong and end of power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.109.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Coscubiala. Next, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Santi Rodríguez, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.110.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, our parliamentary group did not submit partial statements on this bill. And we didn't want to do that because we decided to keep the message to the totality that we were going to present in the initial debate of this one that had a place in this plenary. And today we continue to keep that, fictitiously, symbolically, addressed to the totality. I think if we can set some example of what an unproductive act is, we don't have a better example before the same law. A law used to be an act that pursues certain objectives. So, well, this is an unproductive act. Because in the best of the cases – in the best of the cases – this law will be absolutely unproductive, it will not involve absolutely any recaptation to the Government of the Generality. And, therefore, it will have absolutely no positive effect. On the other hand, it will have negative effects, but it will do so: from management costs up to the possible effects that it can have on legal persons who may feel affected by this tax and simply decide to move, which would not be new either; in fact, it has already passed with the tax that was imposed on Guipúsco by Bildu. A whole bunch of good intentions are expressed in the statement of motive and in the justification of this, as is the redistribution of wealth, but we already said, too, in the debate of totality that to redistribute wealth the first thing that is necessary is that it is believed to be rich. And precisely, when we talk about taxes, at a higher level of taxes, less ability to generate wealth. Therefore, it is a contradiction to say that we create a tax to help redistribute wealth when precisely what it does is to reduce the available wealth of society's joint venture. And, therefore, surely, there are some who say that what they want is to redistribute the wealth, in reality what they must be talking about is to try to redistribute the poor, and, of these, practical examples do not fit that, but I think they are at the top of all and each of us. It is also said that this claim to be a tax to fight fraud and that it is measures to try to avoid tax evasion. We have already said on some other occasion that, therefore, it is possible that the intention is good; it is to send a message to those who do an action, presumably, to commit a tax fraud, and now it is said: "Look, you, who have done tax fraud, can declare this tax and this way your sin is corrected. Still good that they've corrected the tax types. I suppose because the government said it in the appearance at the extremes that it agreed, that, indeed, if the tax types of this tax were lower than the tax types of the property tax, what would eventually cause is the effect of displacement, that is, to promote that it is more fraudulent to avoid paying more and to avoid paying the tax on the property. But it is also true that this tax can be used to tax those passive subjects who try to avoid the asset tax to place certain assets, certain assets in the name of companies, in the name of legal persons, to avoid direct taxation on the asset tax, because, in short, if a certain amount of the assets of a company is well formed, this value is reflected in the value of that company, which will end up declaring in the asset tax the shareholders of that legal person. Therefore, here we go to double taxation, which was already pointed out by Mr. Coscubiela or also pointed out by Mr. Spinosa. I already know that a lot of you, some of you say you have to push taxes more. I also honestly believe that the object of this law is a little placebo given by Mr Coscubiela, in order to be able to say: "No, we impose taxes on the rice, etc., but in the end, what ends up happening is that in the marque where we are, in Catalonia, we are the Catalans who pay the most taxes of all Spain. And not because it oppresses us absolutely none, nor does it scandal us absolutely none, but because it is the result of the sovereign decisions that we take in this Parliament, in relation to those themes in which we have competences. And we already have the highest types of taxes, we have the most taxes in all of Spain, and therefore in this march, we, the People's Party of Catalonia, would rather not have more taxes, which, as I said before, helps to reduce the generation of wealth, but is reduced taxes. But, above all, that it is reduced in the taxes to which they have the least resources, to the taxpayers who have yields less than thirty_ thousand euros per year, for example, that I already know that it is not 4_percent of the richest, but it is 80_percent of the taxpayers who have yields less. And by reducing taxes on taxpayers who have less returns, we favour a better consumption and we also favour wealth creation, it is a different concept, but we are convinced that it is better for the economic evolution of our society. In relation to the tax, the fact of having been treated as a proposition of law – I don't know whether it's casual or not, I think it's not, but –, what has been allowed was that there is no economic memory in which it is possible to identify the amount of taxpayers that there may be in relation to this tax, that it is not possible to identify in which management costs it can be incurred with this tax, and that it is not possible to value which is the expected recovery of this tax. I think that this is not a consequence that it has been processed as proposed by the law, but precisely to avoid presenting a memory of these characteristics is for which it has been processed as proposed by the law, because if it has been done this way, surely the lies that this new tax law holds have been discovered. They keep elements of legal uncertainty in the definition of what an unproductive, ongoing act is, all the effort with the elements that have been made to try to perfectly define what an unproductive act is, they keep important doubts about what it may be considered to be under the tax or not. The determination of the contributor is, too, and the non-residents of the tax have been removed. And, as I said, in the best of the cases, the only one that will represent practically zero entries, but in the worst of cases we incur management expenses and also incur or will incur possible relocations, relocations or relocations of benefits to areas outside Catalonia. Before they were entrepreneurs, vehicles and ships, now they can displace works of art, antiques, joys..., they don't have..., they don't have..., I believe that what they want to record with this tax, you don't have a solution, you don't have a cure. Well, you do – and I suppose some of you aren't far away –, the way you can take it is to 'expropiese', but in any case, I don't think that would be in the nature of a democratic parliament. If what they want is for those who fail to pay, then we do not see that with this tax, those who fail joyfully come to settle saying: "Listen to me, I fail and come to pay this tax because I am a fraudster. They have corrected the types, as I said, it is no longer more wrong to legalize the presumed fraud than not to comply with the law, but ultimately, this imposition, for us not... – and this is certainly the most important and most nuclear reason of our position, both in terms of totality and in terms of partial considerations, which we have not presented, and in the final vote, which we will vote against this law – does not complete the basic principles of any tax, which is simplicity and efficiency. This is not a simple tax, nor will it be an effective tax, so we will vote against this and we will only support two issues that the Ciutadan Group has presented, and two issues that the Catalonia Group has tabled Yes, it is Pot, in which it demands something so basic and so elementary, that it is that we periodically analyze how the recapitulation of this tax evolves. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. Next, the words of Mr. Benet Salellas, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.112.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies and deputies... we think and part of the idea, don't we? , that there is a historical struggle, between capital and work, that runs through our societies. We are perfectly aware that capital has long won us from..., let's say, that it brings us a lot of advantage– and we would not want anyone to understand that we are frivolating this difficult dysfunction, that it is the very essence of capitalism, right? The ideology of capital is today found in all institutions, the IMF, the World Bank, the European Union, the Central Bank, and its objective, so it is, we know, to circulate capital, to increase the pressure on work and to increase the power to finance from the perspective of debt and austerity. We have come or... in a very modest and humble way to try to discuss this scheme. So, in some of the interventions that have been made, well, we should say that, without regaining sovereignty, without having full sovereignty, it is very difficult for us to achieve these objectives and many of the good intentions that have been put on the table. If you don't help us, the groups that you also want to fight against this European Union, which works strictly in the service of capital, if you don't help us fight against this Spanish State and Constitutional Court, which also work as a branch of the ruling classes, then we can hardly build a great fortune tax, which is, in fact, what we wanted to put on the table in the debate. Because, in the current autonomous legislation, it is impossible to build a tax like for example what was done to Guipúscoa, and that we posed as a model and that I would like to remind Mr Rodríguez, of the People's Party, that there was no escape from the companies, look at 'the data, there was a variation, only, of a 0,27_per_cent, and it does not know that, in fact, it was for the motive of the tax of the great fortunes. In any case, and from this logic, we understand that this tax wants to be a gesture, it wants to be a humble gesture, but it wants to be a gesture of freshness to capital, and of promotion of work, and from here we have read it and, in this sense, I have to answer, therefore, to the representative of Ciutadan, that it is a little difficult to hear the position that defend Ciutadan in relation to the question of taxation. I mean, we can't go on having public services if we don't have a tax that you do, in a way... you enter money to finance these public services. What you can't do is say they defend public services and at the same time, ask that there are no taxes. Either we have a tax system that, effectively, allows us to collectively assume health care, education, all that the community collectively needs, or, if not, what we do is choose – if we don't want to impose – for a petition that asks, that everyone gets blown up and that stays in the corner, so it's already going to be done, right? Therefore, the only ideological damage to this tax is that, in fact, we think that those companies that place as good owners of the company, which are not used for society, are doing what they are doing to circumvent assets, charges and items that would go to the property tax. You know, Mr. Espinosa, that the asset tax is equivalent, as at least, to 47_per_cent, at these times, of which the Government of Catalonia is node, in propitious resources. Therefore, it is not a minor tax, and we try to look for the formula because, those who evade the asset tax are forced either to tax on assets or to tax on another way, it seems to me that it is something perfectly legitimate from a perspective, repeated, of defense of public servants and of a tax which, in short, serves to equip us with the community, of public servants. It is a tax that puts the look, precisely, on businesses and those businesses that have luxury goods. And, therefore, we are referring to a very concrete reality, to a reality, therefore, which until today has enjoyed a tax engineering to justify tax evasion and we think it is interesting. And we don't just think about it, says Miguel Ángel Mayo, coordinator of the Hysenda Engineering Union. He said that it is a good tax to try to bring out the hidden personal luxury goods and considers, moreover, that this tax will allow the Tax Agency of Catalonia to obtain very valuable tax data to stretch the tax fraud thread. And here is where we have also looked, and so it has been explained: it is a tax that has a..., not only a recaptancy, but also, and above all, a census function, which will allow us to have more knowledge of these luxury goods and which will therefore allow us to take the corresponding tax decisions. I have found myself missing in the interventions of all the groups that have preceded me, practically, that there are fessin' proposals in this sense. Because this tax also wants to be an instrument in the fight against tax fraud. And it would be good if those who criticize the tax so much, those who voted against it, tell us what are the instruments they propose, fighting against tax fraud. Perhaps we were wrong, perhaps there are much more interesting alternatives, but I did not listen to a single proposal to fight against tax fraud, the Citizens' Group and the People's Party. And, in relation to the Socialist Party's considerations, it's hard for me, huh? I, obviously, here..., let's say, I'm this legislature, I'm going over, and let's say, there are things from the parliamentary dynamic that get away from me a little bit, right? And I don't think it's fair – it's not fair – that we say we haven't listened to the rest of the parliamentary groups, because we've taken care of ourselves and we've discussed, we've thought about it. What happens is that a very important particularity has been given in this bill's proposal, which is that Together for the Yes and the UPC we self-extracted the initial proposal with some issues of a magnitude, which far exceeded, the issues that had been presented by the Socialist Party. Then it was very difficult to incorporate items from the Socialist Party, because the text that we are finally voting on today – which actually comes from Juntes' self-exams for the Yes and the CUP – is very different from the original text. And, therefore, it was very difficult, but..., I think that, in any case, here we do not come to see whether they have esteemed me as a goal or they have esteemed me as a goal to others, as Congressman Ordeig said "even though I am about to see it. I didn't come here to make you see anything. I have come, in short, to defend interested collectius and to do what I think serves, in addition, the interested collectius, not to play a game to see if that... – considering a SCP theme that does not mean anything and does not contribute anything–, so I will have the support of the Socialist Party. I didn't come to play this parliamentary game. I think that, if we are aware of the self-expressions and the fall of the self-expressions that we have set up ourselves, as we did together for the Yes and the UPC, it is clear that, on the basis of the appearances that were made – in which I will not be denied by Mr Ordeig, that we have had a certain role, at least, the Parliamentary Group of the UPC, in which these appearances exist – then, in the end, we will see that a collective task has been carried out and that a collective task has been carried out so far as parliamentary groups have wanted to accept it. What if this is a placebo or not a placebo? Okay. I believe that the position of the CUP on the property tax, on the tax on the income of physical persons, and, in short, on the fiscal policy that should be made by this government, is well known, let us say it, discussed, exposed and, I think, to the point of satiety, and to the point of apprehension, and I do not intend to reproduce it. We don't need a placebo, and in the end, everything that leads to this Parliament, always needs to be read in this logic of games and whether that's what you have to do, so the UPC has given support to the assumption... No, look, the UPC has given support to the assumptions for the question of the reference, for the rest of the assumptions, the UPC doesn't give a single vote or a single vote. And the Sessions Diary is testimony to how we voted on the papers, and how these assumptions were approved, mostly, with the votes of the People's Party and the Socialist Party. And that's it, and it's in the Sessions Diary. And so..., that's enough. [[applause]] , to say that this bill, which has a very determined content, a lot of definite objectives and a technical work that would like to thank the technicians of the Directorate General of Taxes, which have worked precisely to keep this tax as soon as possible, tends to see with a decision concerning the assumptions. And in this sense, it doesn't stop popping up, does it? , which is said: "No, we do not want it to enter into force on June 30, or the month of June 2017, because it will already enter into force on June 1, 2018. But, listen, do we have a chance to recapture and do we have a hope that this tax will be carried out? Or can we just read things in an election key and in a key of thinking that if there's a late election for me, what I'm interested in is that the government can't use the approval of this...? But what... what exactly is that about? Okay? Because what we think is that, actually, what you feel is that you do things as fast as possible, as better quality, and in this sense, if you look at who you have the most because you pay more, so, that, as soon as it applies, better. And in this sense I think we have to thank, I repeat, the effort of the technical and technical of the Department of Economics, which have made an effort because this was already done in this 2017. And that this is being done in 2017 seems to me not to be an error, but precisely an uncertainty. And I finish..., I finish very quickly. This week we learned how to be the Minister of Hisenda, Rodrigo Rato, fooled Hisenda for years and years and years. Well, many years have already prescribed. We know how the IRPF defrauded in 2012, 2013, 2014, the corporate tax in 2011, 2013..., as the IMF itself knew, through PricewaterhouseCoopers, as it had..., and had huge amounts of fraud in tax havens. I repeat: this is a struggle between capital and work. We already know what Rodrigo Rato, the IMF and PricewaterhouseCoopers are for. We are on the side of the job, and this tax we approve today is a humble gesture, precisely, in this direction. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.113.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Salellas. The words of Ms. Carmina Castellví, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.114.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good day. First of all, I would like to thank all the parliamentary groups for their contributions that they wanted to improve the proposal of the law that the proposed groups will present in this Parliament. We, like the same proposing groups, have also worked to improve the law's writing. Proof of this are the papers that we have jointly presented by the parliamentary groups of Juntes for the Yes and the Popular Unity Candidacy - Crying Constituent. Some groups have treated us for some specific aspect of the law that they criticize, but at the time of the truth they did not submit papers. Those who have presented them afterwards have not been able or unwilling to defend them nor to discuss them, and have not even come to the stand of this law, to which we were only going to assist the CUP and Juntes Group for the Yes. These same groups then complain that the majority of Parliament does not take into account their proposals or that we have passed the rodeo, as Mr Ordeig said. But the truth is that we've talked, already the Salellas company has told us, we've talked, we've explained our arguments and positions to them, and that they don't like the result doesn't mean we haven't done it, huh? All in all, as I said, the work done for the majority of Parliament has been intense. The full share of this new tax will be the same as that of the property tax, and no one will be able to say that this new tax is more cheap than the property tax, nor will it contribute to the time to tax for this tax what is to be taxed for the property tax. The free minimum has been eliminated, because, as the Director General of Tributes, Mrs Marta Espasa, explained, in her appearance in this Parliament, I had no sense that there was a free minimum, because the benefits that are engraved with this tax are nominally attributed to companies but should actually be in the name of physical persons. Companies exist to carry out productive activities, not to accumulate and store the non-product benefits of their partners. The reports submitted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group cannot be accepted, for various reasons. At the first, they ask to promote normative measures of modification of taxes that now – not for long – are exclusive competence of the Spanish State. In any case, you, who are always supporting the Government of the State, force the Government of the PP to adopt them. Request reports of effective application of this tax quarterly, when it is an annual tax. This petition didn't feel like it. Why don't they ask Minister Montoro to report quarterly on the application of VAT or IRPF? So much! Or is it that doesn't matter, because then it would show even more the little that comes back to Catalonia than it is here? And with regard to the last item, the casino issue, we have not yet seen what you have to see with this law. The Socialist Parliamentary Group, for its group, has presented various points that we will not accept. He did not feel the role of a taxpayer's substitute, and less so that this substitute is the holder of the account of the taxpayer, because it is a direct and personal tax. As the taxable base is defined, the deduction of charges, expenses and charges is not required. Moreover, in having been suppressed the exempt minimum, one of their considerations already falls by itself. And, for what it does to the proposal that the tax is deserved at 31 December, this would imply to the practice to postpone the application of the law one year, and we have no reason to do so. And the same goes for the emena that proposes a two-year grace period for the act subject to this tax before they begin to tax. Here you see, with these items, your nullity with this law. The three items of the Socialist Group have the same content and purpose as some of the items that we have tabled with a more accurate and broader wording, for which we do not understand that they are not voting in favour of them. Those supposedly progressives always apologize, always find the perfect excuse, so why don't they listen to each other in the papers, so why the processing has been very long..., very short – backwards. The Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it can already tell us that it will vote in favour of this law, and it shows its good attitude, which we really appreciate. And that the details do not make us lose sight of what is essential: with this tax we intend to solve the problem of the concealment of immobile goods of private or private use that do not tax the property tax. We are also fighting against the tax practices of many big companies, entremats and business groups. Moreover, a wealth share is taxed which, for the different criteria and valuation rules, is not subject to the asset tax through participations in companies or shares. Mr Espinosa, it's not as simple to recap, but to fight against the elusion and the tax fraud. And it's not a tax that goes against economic growth, but on the contrary: what penalizes tax is the use of business resources to acquire non-productive assets for the leure, ostentation and luxury. On the contrary, the law that encourages is the use of the resources of companies for the acquisition of productive goods, which are those who believe rich for society and which boost their economic growth. We have the opportunity to create a good tax, progressive and stimulating wealth creation, and with a clearly countercyclical character that enables a fairer redistribution of wealth to our society. Enjoy it. Finally, I would remind you of the legal definition of 'law': 'legal rule of general and binding character dictated by the organs which have the legislative power. Therefore, and as is obvious, the present and future Catalan legislation is a must compliment. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.115.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Yes, Mr Espinosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.116.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.117.0	That's Rule 85, Mr. Carrizosa. He asks me for allusions, according to Article 85...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.118.0	Oh, so, thank you very much...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.119.0	...sir spiny. Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.120.0	...to remember me.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.121.0	Well, that's it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.122.0	Miri, it's only to answer to Mr. Benet Salellas that..., in Citizens we know that maintaining services requires income, and that those revenues come from tax collection; but it's that the difference in relation to them is that we know how to collect more without raising taxes or creating new ones. And as for the contribution he asked us to make, that we have no contribution, look, I said it even here today: what is needed is to cover the holes of..., technically, that there is in the property tax; to update the records, which is, on the other hand, on which it seems to be going to be based the Tax Agency of Catalonia, and to establish inspection plans to avoid leaks, that is, tax avoidance. Investigation and inspection plans. As you see, we also have proposals to evade or prevent tax evasion.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.123.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. Mr. Ordeig, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.124.0	Yes; President, thank you. For allusions, see Article 85. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.125.0	All right, then, Mr. Ordeig.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.126.0	[[The timer laughs.]] I did good, didn't I? [[Rialles.]] Well, I'm a little light-headed. Well, it's well known that this law that we're here debating is the counterpart for having voted the UPC on the assumptions to the group that supports the government. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, listen, we're not the ones that we need to feel...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.127.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.128.0	...that we're the ones who've given support to the assumptions, that's all that was missing. And then, Mrs. Castellví, it seems to me entrepreneurial what you said. You've done it quickly and poorly, and even more so as to accuse us of supposed progressives, and you're mocking our ideology. Look, listen, one thing we're talking about is the law, one thing we're talking about is what we agree with and what we disagree with, but that's what I don't admit. Because, if not, I could also tell you that you're supposed to be dredgers, you're supposed to be convergent or you're supposed to be pujolist. And it would be demagogic, wouldn't it? So, I'm telling you the same thing. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.129.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. [[Pause.]] We shall proceed to the vote. First of all, we will vote on the reserved items of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Now we're voting for Emena number 37. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 45 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 38. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 39. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 82, with 16 abstentions. Then we will vote on the papers of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. We shall vote first on items 8a, 19 and 28. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 12 votes in favour, 106 against and 14 abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 10, 11 and 16. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 27 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number five-a puzzle. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 122 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 41 coin. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 37 votes in favour, 96 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 42. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 61 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 8..., are the items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, from now on we will vote on items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group : they are items 8, 12, 17, 22 and 25. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 27 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 9 and 21. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 27 votes in favour, 106 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 40th. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 27 and 31. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 16 votes to 106, with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the rest of the text of the bill. The vote begins. The proposed tax law on non-productive legal persons was approved by 82 votes to 34, with 15 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Declaration by the Parliament of Catalonia on the genocide of the Yazidite people and other minorities in the Islamic State]] [[401-00025/11]] They ask them not to leave the room, so now we read a statement by the Parliament of Catalonia, condemning the genocide of the Yazidite people and other minorities for the Islamic State. I pray to the fourth secretary, Mrs Ramona Barrufet, that you read the text.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.130.0	« Declaration of the Parliament of Catalonia of condemnation of the genocide of the Yazidite people and other minorities for the Islamic State. After proclaiming the Caliphate in the territories of Syria and Iraq, the nameless Islamic State imposed its extremist interpretation of the Shariah, persecuting religious minorities and expelling them because it considers them unfaithful, and eventually leading to public executions and massive decapitations of people who refuse to convert to Islam. These persecutions affect ethnic and religious minorities present in the area, such as Christians, Shiite Muslims and the Yazidite minority, a minority religion that is remunerated in the year 2000 before Crist and has its origins in Zoroastrianism. The Yazidite community, moreover, is object of settlement and persecution for religious reasons even in the refugee camps of Greece, until its members are obliged to stay in separate spaces from the rest. The Parliament of Catalonia condemns the genocide of the Yazidite people and other religious minorities, such as Christians and Shiite Muslims, on the part of the organization of the Islamic State. Thus, condemn the violence and atrocities committed by this organization against religious minorities, women, children, persons belonging to the LGTBI collection and all those who do not subscribe to their ideals. The Catalonian Parliament notes the vulnerability of these groups in the same camps where they should find refuge and express their willingness to give priority to them in the event of a possible influx of refugees. Finally, the Parliament of Catalonia expresses its support for the religious freedom of the world. Palau del Parlament, April 26, 2017.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.131.0	So, thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.132.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. [[Decree-Law No 2/2017 of 4 April 2017 amending the entry into force of the tax on sugar beet and establishing a rule for determining the applicable rate of the tax on stays in tourist establishments]] [[203-00009/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate and vote on the validation of Decree Law 2/2017, of April 4, which modifies the entry into force of the tax on sugar beet and establishes a rule for determining the applicable tax rate on stays in tourist establishments. In accordance with Rule 155.2 of the Rules, Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History, hereby submits this Decree to the Law.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.133.0	Good afternoon, President. Good afternoon to everyone. We present the Decree Illi 2/2017, as indicated by the President of Parliament, which modifies the entry into force of the tax on sugar beet and the determination of the applicable tax rate on stays in tourist establishments. This presentation will be made as briefly as the same law decree, which consists only of two articles. The Government, as you will recall, presented the Bill of Presuppositions for 2017 and the Accompanying Bill at the end of November of last year. At the same time, when we did the totality debate of the accompanying Law, we explained that the creation of our taxes, such as the tax on sugary beets, and also the modification of existing taxes, such as the tax on stays in tourist establishments, were included. As you may also recall, some groups have asked the Council of State Guarantees to issue an opinion on certain requirements of the Law accompanying the assumptions, an opinion which was given to know on the 10th of March. It was not until the 22nd March that the House was able to debate, vote and finally approve the Law on fiscal, administrative, financial and public sector measures. The new law provided that the tax on sugar beet should enter into force on the first day of the quarter following the entry into force of the law. So, we find that the law came into force on March 31st, and that the tax, therefore, was payable the next day, April 1st. Given the time gap between the approval and the requirement, and in view of the fact that the implementation of the new tax required the implementation of certain changes in the charging and billing system of the enterprises involved, the Government believed it appropriate to extend its entry into force until 1 May, thus facilitating the effective application of the tax by the operators involved. The second measure contained in this decree, related to the tax on stays in tourist establishments, determines that those reserved and already paid stays before the entry into force of the modification of the tariff corresponding to the tourist accommodation, or, then, before April 1, 2017, the applicable tariff is the one in force at the time of making the reservation, provided that the import of the reservation and also the import of the tax were satisfied at that time. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify what was going on in those situations where the client had already booked the accommodation in advance, thus ensuring the legal certainty of the operators in the sector. And that's what we did. Given the circumstances that I have just described, we believe that the extraordinary and urgent need for this initiative is justified, and that is why I ask you to consider the desirability of validating this decree. As I had said, as the decree only had two articles, it compromised me that its defence was brief. I hope I got it, and I appreciate your attention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.134.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. To fix his position, has the word Laura Vílchez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.135.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... the decree law we're going to vote on next is a mockery. A mockery and a widespread disrespect. You mix in this decree, in this decree law, two issues that have no relationship of any kind with each other. We are informed, on the one hand, that in the settlement of the tourist rate for reservations paid prior to the entry into force of the new rates, the rates in force at the time of making the reservations will be respected. Well, okay, okay; it was obvious, but thank you for the clarification. On the other hand, with this decree the Government laughs at Parliament itself, because the groups that passed this tax on sugary drinks had to assume that the Government, in presenting it in the Accompaniment Act, had carried out the corresponding assessment of the economic and social impact of this tax and that the probable problems that it would generate had been studied. And, as we can see from this decree, the answer, which we now know, is that no, because it turns out that after four days badly told that this Parliament passed this tax they have to resort to a decree of law to postpone its entry into force for one month; one month because of the pressures of its government partners, because one month is clearly insufficient for: one, the taxpayer has the information to be able to comply with the law; and two, which is insufficient for the government to be prepared to develop the mechanisms necessary for the implementation of this new tax. It is true that the sector complains, but it does so mainly for two reasons. Firstly, because they have a discriminatory tax, an opinion that we can share, since the fight against obesity should not be dealt with only through sugary beverages but also with other sectors of the food industry, and secondly, because the entry into force has been improvised and a sluggish point, because they have not given material time to, for example, modify price labels, recalculate their forecasts or adapt the usual business accounts. To this day no one knows what to do to self-liquidate this tax, the Government does not know how to explain it and, therefore, there is no necessary legal certainty. They also laugh at the smaller ones, the small and medium distributors, the small owners of bars and restaurants, who, when looking for information on the website of the Tax Agency of Catalonia, find, instead of the self-liquidation form, a PDF, a simple list of questions and answers that, in addition, is being updated every five days. And this is therefore not serious, and they should take it seriously because applying a new tax to thousands of outlets without having studied it with the corresponding rigour, without having informed taxpayers and without having given them a reasonable time to react is a dangerous and irresponsible attitude. Think and recognize that you are doing it quickly and running and, moreover, for no reason, because, for starters, it was you who delayed the approval of the budgets. And again, with these mistletoes, the duck will pay, so the usual ones, the small ones, the small distributors and restorers. They think that if they have tried to copy the English model, they have done it very badly, because the United Kingdom has granted the sector two years of transition, two years of adaptation, two years that will serve for companies to reformulate the composition of sugar drinks, as has happened on other occasions, to adapt to the sugar levels that WHO recommends; two years that will serve to draft a regulation that facilitates and gives legal certainty to taxpayers who have to liquidate this new tax. And you, with your eagerness to collect, have prioritized doing things quickly rather than doing good. Anyway, in Citizens we do not agree with a new rise in taxes, and less in Catalonia, when we already bear the highest tax burden in all of Spain. In Ciutadans we think that, if we consider it necessary to address it, we must do from a broader framework, at the national level, that does not create comparative grievances between communities, and treat it from a public health perspective, and not only with the aim of increasing the revenue of the Administration. In this sense, the Citizens' Group has registered in the Congress of Deputies a non-law proposal to promote healthy lifestyles, because, if the focus was on public health, we understand that for the moment – for the moment – there are other possible formulas to treat phenomena such as childhood obesity or pathologies such as diabetes, if that was the real purpose of this tax. So we could share the ultimate goal, but not so. Therefore, we will not support this decree law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.136.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vílchez. The words of Ms.Alícia Romero of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.137.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, vice president, deputies, deputies... Well, today the vice president presents us with a decree law, he says, and so also justifies the report, before the extraordinary and urgent need to settle a correct application of the two taxes that are modified. That's what the decree says. But the law decree is an extraordinary remedy in cases of extraordinary urgency and need and, frankly, we do not see where the extraordinary urgency is and need in this law decree that you present us. Miri, on November 29, 2016, presented the Project Law on Presumables and the Project Law on Fiscal and Financial Measures. It was approved on March 23rd: almost four months you have had to make a statement on both taxes with those who today bring us this change. I'll give you four_months, Mr. Junqueras, to do a little homework and modify what they're bringing us today. They could have done it, because they had time for envelopes, and because they would have had time for envelopes to talk, in the case of sweet drinks, with the sector, to what they didn't even introduce before they presented it to the press, the very thing that would have affected them. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, so much! That's it. Therefore, listen'm, where is the need, this extraordinary need? What has changed from November until now because you present us with an emergency law decree? He hasn't changed anything. Simply, you don't do things well, Mr Junqueras; they're not strict and they're not serious, and it's not the first time we tell them: they don't have credentials, they're not getting credentials to make a better country, because a new country doesn't mean better, and you don't work well. And honestly, they don't give us any guarantees, and that's a clear example of you not doing the right job. Miri, in the case of the tourist tax I don't want to go in there because it's a detail that could also have known before; of course, if it's worth the tax, those places, those rooms already booked before April 1st, man, they won't have to pay the tax. Can't you predict that in November, when they introduced him? Of course they did, but they didn't do it because of your lack of rigour. But I want to get into the sugary beaks. Miri, a tax that we voted for, a tax that I have to say that comes in with hundreds of amendments to the Law of fiscal measures and financed, so there was no debate, no appearances, a little quiet work, the ability to listen to experts... that's all we skipped. But, well, we gave this confidence to the government, we voted in favour of the imposition of the sugary drunks, above all because there is a recommendation from the WHO that it says that it should pursue the reduction of obesity and, therefore, the better of the salvation of our citizens, but it is not said by the WHO that this tax should be confiscations. And with what you are presenting to us, it seems that you are confiscators; you do not give guarantees that you are pursuing obedience, because, if really what we are pursuing is obesity, reducing obesity and improving the salvation of the citizens, you do things well, I will insist, well, rigorously, and do not do that. It turns out that the tax comes into force on April 1, but there, the sector is complaining. But it's not because the sector is complaining, it's because you still don't have a rule to develop this tax. It's a tax that has an explanatory paragraph and fifteen articles, it's a complicated tax to apply because, listen to me, who's the pass subject of that tax? From the small bar café to the big supermarket. Yeah, no, it's true, they can delegate. The passing subject can delegate, very well. And how will he do it? It's just that we have to explain it well. And what are the products that will be engraved? Because, listen to me, you, who haven't made a regulation, say they're doing it – say they're doing it, and tell the tax agency note, I didn't make it up myself, say they're doing it, but while the fan presents an information note; an information note that says the counselor will already approve the full autoliquidation. So for now, we don't have it and you say we're working on a rule, because for now we don't have it. And then you present a document of questions and answers in which you explain some things, but there are contradictions, there are things that are not understood. Listen to me, we have to generate certainty and legal certainty to the one who has to pay a tax. That's what needs to be done. And you don't. What's your hurry? Why don't they make a settlement and in May 1 accounts enter July 1st? What's your hurry? We will not reduce obesity in two months. Why, do you know what's going on? That's not that, his object. Its objective, in the fund, is to confiscate, is to have these 40_million euros, because it is not able to do the necessary tax reform that it would have to pay more to those who have more and recover more. And, therefore, you corrected it. « No, the CUP does not leave us. Look, listen to me, you're the one who rules. You, not the CUP. And you don't rule and you don't do good girly things, and you're neither strict nor serious. And we'll have application problems with this tax, and we'll have problems with self-liquidation, and if we don't see it again. Because, listen to me, to set an example, that I have a few seconds left, because we have been given here five minutes, come, correct, because everything is technical – everything is technical. So no: things are political, and their decisions are political. [[Greetings.]] And, therefore, I would like to say one thing with an example. Turns out they're... they're not coming in. Clearly, the bill can't be recorded, it's not object. But it turns out that when we go into the detail of you to one of the questions you ask, which is precisely question 7, here we have some doubts, because it says that in the cases of llets or alternatives to llets that have, more than natural sugar, an added sugar, sugar does add that it is heavy. And when do we say what's natural and what's not? Will the manufacturer tell me? I, listen, there's also natural sugar in the soaked beak that sees from a fruit. And does this natural enter it or not? Or, there are many doubts that generate these questions and answers. Why can't we make a three-month rule and apply it properly without uncertainty and with legal certainty? So look: because you don't know how to do things better, honestly. And because the UPC is tight – tight – and you are unable to square yourself and say, "Well, let's do the right thing, let's apply the tax when it comes to it, and above all we don't generate any more uncertainty in one sector... in this or other. And, therefore, what we're going to say is "no" to this law. They do the right thing, we give them a long time ago. And, above all, be more rigorous, because this country needs it now. I don't know how long from here. Yeah. And you, Mr. Junqueras, don't show the ability, rigour and seriousness that you deserve the burden that you represent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.138.0	Thank you, Mrs Romero. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.139.0	After Mrs Romero's vehemence, I don't know what to say. [[Rialles.]] Well, good afternoon to everyone. We are in front of a decree, as has been said, to modify the date of entry into force of the new sugary beet levy, which has been postponed for one month. We wait, and here we are very much in agreement with the pressure of the UPC, that it follows a_me and it is not still postponing, the thing, and more so not to apply the tax on stays in tourist establishments to the booking girls before April 1, which seems to us to be common sense. As much as it's a decree to change technical issues, I think we need to make some considerations, beyond the fact that the government hasn't done things right, that's for sure. It is not the full autoliquidation, it is not developed the regulation, and, moreover, many of those affected who have to apply the tax do not have enough information. That said, the tax on sweet beguds would be nice to remember that he sees from a young man who made my companion Marta Ribas on foods that make them sick, a young man who was certainly ambitious and who proposed to put the food in the center of public policies, and that Together for the Yes, together with the People's Party, they cut and cut to a minimum; a young man who made it pale as we eat, and therefore our life expectancy and quality of life, they have a class and genera that are brutal. Because, besides, if we think that people with less income have eight years less than half a life expectancy, they have a higher rate of maturity, they have more precarious jobs, they have a higher probability of school failure, what we say is, who has less, who has less, lives less, and, more, lives worse. And that's not because they don't spend well, because they don't want to work, because they don't want to study, or because they don't have criteria at the time of choosing their food. This is clearly because they have fewer resources and because there are no public policies, neither predispositional nor redistributive, that make equal opportunities possible. With the motion put forward by Marta Ribas, we may have passed a tax on foods with excess sugar, sodium or saturated fats, an important issue if we are aware that every year in Catalonia eleven_ thousand people die for illnesses related to this cause, and Together for the Yes and the PP prevented this from being possible. But it is that, moreover, Together for the Yes also prevented a benefit of a hundred € per month for the child of minors of families at risk of poverty, something that would be of the utmost necessity if we are clear that the price difference between a healthy diet and one of starvation is one euro and half per person per day, and, again, Together for the Yes there voted against with the complicity of the People's Party and of Ciutadans, which they abstained. It seems that when it comes to defending the interests of food industry lobbyists, Together for the Yes, the People's Party and Citizens are in agreement, whether by action or omission. And, saying that, unhealthy food is not an individual problem. It's a pandemic with systemic and structural causes. Marta Ribas said so, but she also recognized it, so did Councillor Comín. And this reality that it requires is iron. People at risk of poverty have their lives. And there's nothing to start with, with the friendly advertising campaigns that are fan of mainstream media. As Gabriela Serra said, if tobacco taxes are high because tobacco kills, the taxes on food that they make embalter, and therefore kill, they should also be higher. And, finally, I'd like to make a point about the tax on tourist establishments. From my group, a paper was presented to the law of monitoring assumptions because a part of what is received is intended for environmental policies – water, coastal protection and cleanness, maintenance of ecosystems that are affected by tourism – and this paper was not accepted by Junts for the Yes. And, finally, this reflection: if we do not understand that the environment is not a futile one, perhaps within a few decades we do not care about imposing on tourist establishments, because no one will want to visit areas that are raw and degraded. All that said, say we vote in favour of this decree, because we can't wait any longer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.140.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.141.0	Thank you. President and Vice-President, Members and Members, to position us in relation to this decree law, short, simple, simple, and that it also surmises that for its patent and sensileness you have not been predicted beforehand for the same government, or at least for the parliamentary groups that support it. There are two modifications to this law. One is the modification or adjournment of one_month of the entry into force of the tax on sugary beaks. The other is to predict the situation, which was not strange either, of the application of the nine rates of the tax on tourist stays in those booking girls and paid before the entry into force of its modification, circumstance this, certainly, that happened when it was created this tax the year 2012, and therefore could not be anything new to the effects of the Department of Economy and History. But in any case we fall back exactly, or fall back the department exactly, in the same error that it had previously fallen. In this case – in this case – the modification would be reasonable, but this circumstance makes our group as a minimum warnexi..., of this circumstance and I want to put it into evidence. In relation to the case of the levy on sugar beets, it is worth saying, first of all, that what will prevail in our position in relation to the decree is precisely our opposition to the levy on sugar beet. It is to say, not only to this extension, this day-to-day, one_month of its implementation..., extension or day-to-day that another band could also have been forecasted by the Department of Economy, but as many other things, as many other circumstances in relation to the application of this tax. Now the issue of juice-like sugars has been discussed... with added sugars. There is no clear criteria, beyond the questions and answers that from the Department of Economics are published on the web and that they are changing depending on the day when a consultation of these questions and answers. There is, therefore, no regulation. There can be a clarity to the law respecting who is the contributor and who is the tax liability. There is no practical effect, nor is there a clear view of who is responsible. And even more so than today with your votes, because ours won't have it, this law of the day of the entry into force of the tax on sweet drinks, the problems will continue, and you know it. And they know that because in the end these are the problems that fiscal creativity has, which is not the application of a certain tax, but that the doubts arise in relation to the same tax. And that really is the problem you have. Frankly, when one sees the cluster of deproposals with detail in which the Department of Economics deals with this imposition, yes, but also with, for example, the fact that we have discussed this media with regard to the unproductive act, one thinks that when this legislative government seems to do so more quickly to cause the Government of Spain to legislate in the same sense and attempt to compensate the Government of the Generality, and thus to have a recovery without making any effort and without asking for any effort in the city of Catalonia. Our group is against the validation of this decree. Thank you, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.142.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Next is the words of Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.143.0	Well, thank you very much; good afternoon. We are in front of a decree that apparently, or supposedly, it was technical, in that in the background it is visual that it has a part of technical but that there are more things at the end that we should take into account. The first, as the honourable Member of Catalonia said Yes, it is Pot..., in November here we approved a motion where we found that the issue of sugar beguds and poor nutrition was a topic that went beyond a question of taxation. It's a question of public salvation. And, therefore, it is good that we are taxed as sugar beakers, even more so that it is better and that we should go far beyond what it was, but that we also remain strong in public health policies. In fact, Veterinarians Sense Frontiers - Global Food Justice, at the time, when the possibility of making a tax on sugar beet was raised, they said that they thought it was appropriate to try to reduce the consumption of these beet with regard to the price, but that it was necessary that we were more there and that we were more political, and that we were also dealing with food, that we were not just left alone with beet and with a certain type of beet, but there was all the food that we could regulate. Because, in fact, unhealthy food is the main health problem in the Spanish State. In fact, as we speak, and as it came out..., which also came out, the intervention of the deputy Gabriela Serra when it was discussed the motion of Catalonia Yes it is Pot, in which she posed on the table the tax of tobacco and alcoholic beverages. If we look at this, we see that for every day lost to alcohol we lose new to unhealthy food and that for each one we lose to drugs we lose 11 to bad diet. Therefore, to make a tax on the sweet beguds; unfortunately, because we do not approach it from the prism of public salvation. And we come to this decree, where it goes back to the table that, in the background, more than the government has done or has not done the dues as it played and has advanced the work when it was to be done, that perhaps someone was working with the hypothesis that the assumptions, more than that, are not being used, we also see that if the tax was presented in November there is also one who has ended up responding to the particular interests of someone. Because before distributors get along at the last minute they're not ready to apply this tax the first thing we do is delay its application. So, let's return to the interests of distributors, as it happened in 2013, when there was also a proposal to make an imposition of sugar beakers at the end of the day did not respond to the interests of these distributors. Therefore, it is a decree that we will give support to it, that we would have preferred you not to exist, because we would have preferred the tax to come into force when it was playing and as it was playing, which is why it was done in its moment. The same way the technical details, as has already been said, of the subject of the tourist tax very probably we could have avoided them. I can't, however, answer the "CUP doesn't leave us or the "CUP keeps them tight, tight, tight" because I think that sometimes too many powers are attributed, either by fate or by disgrace. And in this case which "presses, "presses, "presses are the distributors, and they are, obviously, the interests of a few, and not the interests of the CUP. And finally, to say only that the five minutes we agreed on at the Spokesman's Meeting, I understand at that time that the decree was technical and, perhaps because no one had looked at it with detention or had not considered other things, we decided that it was five minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.144.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. The words of Ms. Anna Caula, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.145.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Vice President, deputies, deputies. In relation to Decree Law 2/2017, what we have found so far is that the first part of the decree is the one that arouses the most diversity of opinions. Even we've heard that the government may have rushed. But, you go here, we don't share it. We often hear from this show that the government spreads the proposals, that the times are long and long until they see results. That's not the case. We believe in the need for this tax. Just remember, as Mrs Romero told us, the recommendations made by the WHO last October, it was recommended to record the sugary beguds in order to fight obesity and diabetes. We're actually talking about it in a police station in Catalonia. Yes, it's possible that it was approved in the morning, but it can also be remembered that the vice president, on a press conference, at midday, communicated the willingness to pull this tax forward. The first step we already have here, with this new imposition, with the utmost agility that allows the different processes, which must respect, and its times, no more or less, with the will to act quickly, be effective and be as operable as possible, but also without leaving any band to be accurate in the definition or application of the tax. And that's how it happened. The employers knew the detail of this tax, since the bill was raised in November to the Labour, Economic and Social Council of Catalonia, of which employers and trade unions are members. And, in addition, government representatives have held meetings with industry representatives to report on the new tax, both a priori and a posteriori, to resolve doubts about its application, as well as the updating, often, of the tool that many have commented on the department's website, frequently asked questions. A copy of the requests of the sector, and above all marked by the fact of the delay in the approval of the Law of measures, concludes, as the Vice-President commented, the opinion requested for the Ciutadans Group, precisely, to the Council of State Guarantees, the Government understands and assumes, in order to facilitate the adaptation to the sector, to delay its entry into force until 1 May. And that's what we're validating together with the second apart, which a lot of you were commenting on. Another thing is the tax on food, to which other groups refer; the will is, but neither here nor to other European countries where we are prepared to address it, because of its technical complexity. While the decree is part of the Department of Economics, we understand that we are also talking about the importance we give as a society to healthy food, which at the same time implies the question of which model of society we want, because the change of habits in general and the foods in particular is a central element in improving our society. Therefore, our group also bets on a proactive approach, not just a tax collector. We understand taxation as a pot of the table, with the aim of discouraging consumption of these drinks and promoting healthy consumption habits, because taxes do not only have recaptatory effects: they also have the will to change social behaviour. We believe that it is necessary, therefore, to make this problem visible to society and to give an explicit message to the consumer applying a tax such as that on consumption of other products that cause public health problems, such as alcohol or tobacco. We need to know how to convince ourselves to eat healthy foods, and not those that do not bring benefits, but problems to our salvation, such as sugar. For thousands of years, humans only ingest sugar naturally present in foods like fruit or some vegetables. Refined sugar isn't new. Is it nuts, sugar? Depending on the quantities we're ingesting. Recommend not to exceed six earthy sugars during the day. What happens when, without telling us, we consume seven, and then they're eight, and then they're new? One at a time, we almost don't know each other. But what happens when we triple or quadruple the recommended consumption? That the fetge no longer knows what to do with it, with so much sugar. And what also happens to the disconnection of the amount of sugar we consume, its high presence in many food products? They say that an image is worth more than a thousand words; we all saw a little bit of this campaign on the websites. As an example, are we aware that in a single batch of any product we already consume all the sugar recommended for a day? We're talking about added sugars, Mrs. Romero, and actually gramatge is also done in this aspect, the additions, not the ones that a natural product in itself already includes. The same would happen with the table of sugars, sweeteners – animals and vegetables – and others, which was also linked to consumption patterns and to the negative effects of globalisation. Perhaps the most sensible advice of all is moderation and a rich and varied diet, running from extremes and dogmas. In short, for the sake of intervention, it is a cultural change that requires a great deal of pedagogy, certainly, but also fiscal measures. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.146.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caula. After the debate, we'll start the vote. We're calling it a vote. Yes, Mrs Romero, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.147.0	For allusions. I meant only – thirty_seconds – two things. Miri, who doesn't do the job – and I say it to some who have said it – is not the government. I don't care, distributors; who hasn't done the job is the government. Or, if not, answer the question, Mr Junqueras: do they have rules of development of this tax, yes or no? [[The Vice-President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History intervenes without using the microphone.]] That's the question the government has to answer, which is who didn't make the rules.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.148.0	He said "allusions...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.149.0	And anyway... yeah, about that, I meant. And then, when it says, "The tax, the distributors..., no, look, it's that the tax is a tax on consumption, it's the same exposure of the tax motius, it's a tax on consumption, which is already said to have an impact on the consumer. Therefore, in the end, it is the consumer to whom we end up having the effect of this tax, which is true that we have approved favourably, but, therefore, we must also be aware when we say things: a tax on consumption that consumers will pay and that who has not done the job has been the government, and not any other sector. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.150.0	Let us then proceed to the vote. The vote begins. The decree of the tax on sugar beet and the tax on stays in tourist establishments has been validated by 83 votes in favour, 49 against and no abstentions. According to Rule 155.4 of the Rules, one time the decree has been validated I ask the chamber if any parliamentary group wants this decree to be passed as proposed by law. [[Pause.]] As long as there is no petition, this decree will not be dealt with as the bill of law. [[Proposal for a reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure (debate of totality)]] [[211-00001/11]] Let's continue, then, with the next point of the order of the day. The fifth item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposed reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. In accordance with Articles 126 and 114 of the Rules of Procedure, first of all the paragraph is inserted in order to present this initiative on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, Mr Jordi Turull.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.151.0	Thank you very much, President. President, Vice-President, Councillors, Councillors, Members, I would like in this initial intervention to explain first why the reform of the Rules is and, above all, the content of what it contains, which will still be more understood, therefore, why we propose this reform. In the first place, one of the reflections in high view, right? , at the level, some, rhetorical questions. First serious: Is reforming the Rules an exceptional thing? So, if we look at the antecedents, we'd say no, right? , because if this prospers it would be the 11th amendment of the Rules. Is it exceptional in other parliamentary chambers to change the rules of parliament? So, for example, in the Congress of Deputies, with two that are being processed now, they have reformed the rules thirteen times. In fact, the Rules are amended to adapt to the nine demands, to the nine demands, not only of the deputies, but also of the citizens, right? , and to give more tools, more instruments to Members and to all parliamentary groups. And when I tell everyone I mean everyone without exception, right? And above all because there is no margin or arbitrariness, that there are no legal gaps, or even an excessive power of the interpretation of the Bureau, that you have to interpret it because a situation is not foreseen. And also in cases that, as I said... – some of you may have seen it, the mythical series of the Yes, minister –, therefore, because Sir Humphrey said that one thing is the legal rule and the other, the usual practice, and you should look at what usual practice and the legal rule, so, before one, right? For example, this Parliament at its beginnings, in its eighth year, and after many years, when there was a majority in the Bureau, or there was no majority in the Bureau, there was an unanticipated or dubious situation, what did it do? He did one thing that went "interpretentious agreements of the Bureau," and published them. And from here on it was part, like annex, of the Rules, wasn't it? Such a fact would cause an absolute majority, therefore, of the Bureau of Parliament, of a single political force, once developing the Rules to its liking or consideration, right? And, therefore, everyone will be convinced that it is better the formula, therefore, of the modification of the Regulation, I insist, before new realities, of new demands, of new needs, and that the Regulation adapts precisely to this, and that it remains written and that everyone knows the norms, and not to the free interpretation or, normally, generous interpretation of the Bureau. And this modification, and the modification is good that is done according to the mechanisms provided for by the same Regulation. Therefore, what we are proposing today, which we have agreed with what the Rules provide for, is perfectly legal, and if it is approved, then it is perfectly democratic. And, therefore, what we present here today is legal and democratic, and above all it reinforces the legal security of the rules of the game of this chamber. The second reflection: the things we propose today and here hurt some group? No, on the contrary. For example, now only the government can do these things, so from then on they can be asked by any parliamentary group, by any one, whether it is larger or smaller. And, in change, there are now things that some parliamentary groups, or agree among all, or simply can't... And the third reflection: what we propose here today, the modification of this, the modifications we propose, compared to other chambers, is exceptional, is innovative? Some things are, and let me add them to it and do it well. And in other things, just the opposite. What we will do with this proposal is to adapt to things that most parliamentary chambers have and that – do not ask me why – so this Parliament does not yet have. What things do we propose to modify? Set modifications, we propose. First: that the persons appointed for the Ple of this Parliament, whether by executive or representative functions, have the obligation to compare in the Parliament when an absolute majority claims it. This is an obligation that does not exist, and that does not exist because it should be assumed that it was logical, in respect of the institution, that when someone, a person, we name it in this plenary and ask him to appear to give explanation of something, in respect of the institution, he will appear. But this is not so, there is no legal instrument, and we have found ourselves in this Parliament that people who have quoted them to testify in some committee – not of investigation, that they do have the obligation to compare, in some ordinary committee – and they are people who have been appointed to represent this Parliament, they have simply not appeared. And then there were many complaints from many parliamentary groups, especially opposition groups, saying that since there was no instrument that was forced, therefore, to compare. Does this harm any parliamentary groups? I think that on the contrary, we have a tool in which someone who we appoint, to respect here, if he does not want to come or send him to come or if he wants to escape from coming, he will have the obligation to do so. Second modification: the months of the commissions, when they make the order of the day, must be adapted to what is this of the hourly conciliation. Why are we proposing this? Because it's the mandate of this Parliament. There was a committee of study on the hourly reform which the Parliament and the Members of Parliament said in their pocket must complete with exemplaryness. Do I have the Rules? No, no, Do we now allow this to be the usual practice? Yeah. Is this innovative with respect to other chambers? Yeah. I understand that it's okay to set an example. Third amendment proposed: delegation of votes. For the reasons that it is now possible to delegate the vote to the plenary, not just to the plenary but also to the committees. You know that the committees produce 80-90_percent of the votes, and I would also say that I almost 80-90_percent of the work that a deputy does at the length of the legislature. And it is logical that if we can delegate the vote to the plenary we can also do so in what we invest 80-90_per_cent of our pocket. Does that hurt any parliamentary groups? No, no, It is more, for example, our parliamentary group, Together for the Yes, with sixty-two Members, has much more scope on the subject of substitutions than parliamentary groups, therefore, much smaller; and that, therefore, this can benefit some parliamentary group, therefore, sometimes have difficulties for the lower per motherhood, for which it is still, of long malaise – let us hope that it does not happen habitually – in order to complete with their obligations that day that coincide four or five commissions in this chamber. Therefore, what is less needed is a parliamentary group of sixty-two Members, but we understand that this is entirely logical. Fourth amendment we propose: the integration of legislative initiatives. Various legislative initiatives that have the same object, therefore, that can be grouped into a single ponència. With this, let's go back to what I was saying, that one thing is the legal rule and the other the usual practice. In fact, in this legislature we are already doing so, that there are various initiatives on the same subject, one from the Government, one from other parliamentary groups, that what we are doing is a legal instrument that I support, that the Bureau has always generously allowed, but it has allowed because it has wanted, not because it has the obligation. Does this harm any parliamentary groups? I'd say all the opposite. The natural trend of the parliamentary group that supports the Government is to say: "If there is already a government legislative initiative on this issue, let us do this and, in any case, we will already make changes to it. In change, this allows other parliamentary groups, as is happening in this legislature on the same subject, to group them together. Therefore, it does not harm anyone. I think it gives more opportunities to take advantage of the good and better respect for a matter of the different parliamentary initiatives that there is in any group. Five amendments, certainly the one that has been discussed most: that the single reading process can be called for – I repeat, it can be called for – on the part of any parliamentary group. Now this can only be done by the Government, which asks that a standard text, therefore, be dealt with in a single reading, asks it; it is voted here whether the request is accepted or not; whether it is not accepted, outside, and, if it is accepted, then the debate is done and then it is again to vote whether you agree or disagree with that parliamentary initiative. And it can be done by parliamentary groups if everyone agrees. What's that supposed to mean? That means there's always someone's veto right, not just from some small group, but also from a large group. And, therefore, you know that there are many legislative initiatives, with what I said that people sometimes don't understand, that it's an article, two articles, that we are months away from being able to approve it. And people don't understand. And then there are legislative initiatives that will forgive me, but they are either in favour of or against it, and the position is very clear. And then, in these fears, so it's also logical that this initiative can be called for. With this they lose right to parliamentary groups? No, no, Why now any parliamentary group of you, and could put many examples of legislative changes that you have proposed here, which is an article, two, that when you answer, because many people ask you to present it, many of you must find "how do we have that topic? – No, we're now at the two-week phase to finish the deadline for appearances. – Home, but if it's just an article, if it's a very thing... – No..., etcetera. But it's that, in addition, something else happens to us in this chamber, and we'll all be given the reason – and here we're one of the parliamentary groups –: we use a mechanism, which is the accompanying law, precisely because its process is short, to turn it into a tailor's cove. And there, in view of being a law of fiscal and financial measures, we end up putting in place not only the initiative of the group that supports the government, but many of your initiatives, which you..., with people who talk, with entities who talk, say: "Look, because this goes well and goes fast and the idea is very clear, we could take advantage of the transit of the accompanying law, right? So that doesn't hurt anyone, let's not fool ourselves but it helps everyone. The modification sisena? So that the drivers of a popular legislative initiative – this is an issue that had already been discussed – can participate with you and without a vote on the question. I think it's more opportune than this rule, that it's the rules of this house's functioning, that this issue was discussed, it's true, at the time the law on popular legislative initiatives is discussed, because it's good that the rules of the functioning of ponies, commissions, etc., are all focused on the rule. And then, I also have to say, at first, that this was not much of a supporter, and I take it personally in this case. I say this because in the last legislature, of this, we talked about it; but the experience tells us that when there is a question that is of a popular legislative initiative the promoters are here the Parliament, they have to go to look for one, to look for the other, this one tells him that he said this, the other... The sea – the sea. And, therefore, we believe that now that the Rules are amended, they can participate in this. And the seventh modification we're proposing, so it's a term theme. And here it is that of "the legal norm and the usual practice. And that's the subject of motions and the term there is. And, therefore, man, if we have changed the criteria of the term we have when one of you makes an inquiry until the time you can present, then the motion... so, man, we put it in the Rules, right? Okay. These are the changes that have been made and that, as I said, in the background and in the forms are perfectly legal; if this chamber decides it, then they are perfectly democratic, and, yes, it makes us innovative in something like the theme of hourly reform, with the theme that the members of an ILP can be at the table, with the theme of the delegation with a vote, so this... people who can't come are not only able to delegate the vote to the plenary but also to the committees. And then, yes, we adapt to what most of them have..., the vast majority of camels, and it is that the only reading is not just from the government, but that any parliamentary group can adapt it. That's why we're asking them, so we don't understand why they pose a question to the totality, which is good for all parliamentary groups. [[Widow's remorse.]] And so, as I already imagine where the bullshit is going, because now it's not just what we wrote and what we say, but what some people say we're planning to do, etc. – that's a very curious thing – so we would ask them to support it, because in these changes that make up the most there are all other groups than the majority group with sixty-two Members. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.152.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Next, to defend the totality papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, has the word of Mr Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.153.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, now let's explain a little bit to him because he's talking to the whole thing after this angelic question, the final question with which he ended his intervention. Look, from now on, this legislature has said with insistence that you want to do things right, right? And they also repeated to us that they intended to extend the city support to the call for a referendum, huh? So, well, if that's the point of saying that you're going a long way. And the proposed reform of the Rules that we are being advanced today, therefore, is not the clearest proof. And I'd like to say, from the start, and let me just say so, that this proposal as it stands has a hint of insult to intelligence, huh? I'm not mad at you saying that, but yes, you do have a hint of insult to intelligence. Why is it true that, as you mentioned, we are being offered a whole series of amendments to the Rules, huh? , all a follow-up of articles us. But do you really want us to believe that you have organised this whole thing and started an emergency procedure to record things like the need to take account of the hourly conciliation, the possibility to delegate the vote to the committee, to promote the integration of similar legislative initiatives or to extend the deadline for motions, things that we are already doing in practice in this Parliament? Do they really want us to believe that's why they set us up all this? Everyone understands that it's an emboldened sea, and that's not a guess but a finding. Finally, the political problem is here; it is a garrison to place on us what really is a substance of this reform proposal: you say that ‘a proposal of law at the request of the promoter parliamentary group can be processed directly into a single reading, if it has a majority of Parliament'. This has fallen; this has fallen politically and touches the soft of the bone, in fact, of parliamentary political democracy. Because a democracy, as I recall, ceases to be a democracy... – a democracy is not returned to the majority vote – a democracy ceases to be a democracy and is tyranny of the majority if it does not guarantee the rights of minorities. And, indeed, this is what it is all about: to be able to exercise, in full, the parliamentary right to debate, the right to debate, the right to influence Parliament's decisions and legislative work, especially when it is asked questions such as what is on the table, transcendental questions for the future and for the politics of the country. Gentlemen, listen, you can't store an elephant in a light capsule. [[Rialles.]] And that's what you just did in your intervention. And it's not all about a proposal. Look, for centuries, Jesuits have been arguing about... this eternal debate of whether fi justifies media. We, who come from another school, who is not the Jesuit, who is more aviator the materialist, think more quickly that the fi determines the means and prints character to the means used. It is not possible, to say so in some way, to overwhelm new democratic threads. Who needs to do it, for sure, pursues some objective but it is very doubtful that this objective is democratic and progressive. In this sense, procedures are important and indestriable from the background. And, in this case, the forms have been, let's say it more often, penises. They have submitted to us a proposal for the law of Juntes for the Yes and the CUP camouflaged to the principle as joint laying, when the rest of the groups have disagreed with their creation, and they have required us to process it following a procedure of the utmost urgency. Where'd you see this way of acting? The Rules cannot be changed at the end of a competition and according to the good will on the part of the contenders. We are talking about the functioning of an institution as comfortable and representative as the Parliament of Catalonia. Is it politically legitimate – and here is where we get into the background of the problem, politically legitimate – to seek to amend the Rules with this leugeress, to the ends of the legislature and from an adjusted majority of the chamber? We think it is more than questionable, especially when the reform is explicitly aimed at achieving two objectives: first, to extend the one-time reading assumption, devaluing the quality of the debate, and, second, to employ this exceptional procedure to correct the law of legal transition. A law that is called... - that is not a banality, two articles, eh? –, it is a law that is claimed to be the legal order of the future Catalan Republic but a law that, as well, representatives of this chamber do not know and that probably will not know and will not have time to debate if this pulls forward. Therefore, we are talking about something of an extraordinary gravity. You go here, therefore, the reasons of our quest to the totality. First of all, because, as we say, a reform of the Rules would not have to be done without a broad and well-established agreement between parliamentary groups and much less in time of downsizing, to say the least, and with a purely instrumental and partisan purpose. And, second of all, because we already have a certain knowledge of the abuses that can be committed to the master of single-reading processing. How many times in this chamber have we not heard of Spanish democracy as a malaise or low-quality democracy? Listen, it's not us who's going to discuss the boundaries of this democracy and the current deficits, above all greatly aggravated by the years of PP's government. But, if that's the case – if that's the case – why should we imitate here the democratic setbacks that we denounce in Madrid? Why should we appeal to the Parliament of Catalonia for its practical ills? We cannot respond to the systemic and obstinate negative of the Rajoy government's dialect, its centralist and authoritarian impulses, evading the rights of this Parliament. And this procedure, ladies and gentlemen, questions the democratic legitimacy of any cause and suppresses its social support. Allow me a gesture of immodesty, if you will. Our parliamentary group has not only the right, but also a certain moral authority to say so. As the deputies of Esquerra Plural at the Congress of Deputies, companies such as Joan Josep Nuet or Joan Coscubiela were clearly and forcefully opposed in their day, during the legislature in which the PP ruled with an absolute majority, to the single reading of laws so relevant as to suppose the disappearance of universal justice or the very reform of the Constitutional Court that ended by holding them punitive faculties. And they weren't the only ones. They want you to remember the interventions of Convergence and Union or find the speeches of Joan Tardà, huh? , about the unique readings and their consequences? So much spent on ''and you want to serve it, maybe, in this debate with the PP, but we don't. Just as we were going to denounce Madrid as an illegitimate P.P. maneuver to avoid social and parliamentary debate, we denounce it now, today and here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, when these clean methods are imitated by Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, with the same moral authority. What credibility has the announcement of great democratic threads when the paths passed are these? With the excuse of being cunning, of entanglement in the State, repress the rights of opposition, but above all, they make a genuine political scam on the citizenry. Look, even though you're pulling ahead of the reform of the Rules, the Law of Legal Transition cannot be approved at night. It will be necessary to await the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, and it is not feasible, you know, to adopt a law without debate or avoiding suspension by the Constitutional Court. But then why do you insist on it? We think that in the background it is to look to keep a full path that is found at hours of this time in the state of coma, that passes screen every day and around which the majority remains divided, stalled, and when no one likes nor assumes the consequences of pulling forward this same full route. And we insist one more time: there is another way. A path that you repeatedly insist on considering amortized. It is the way that we think that, with success, with an effective success splendid on this Day of Sant Jordi, we assign the National Referendum Pact to us. It is a path of dialogue, of social mobilization; a path of cohesion of the same Catalan society, of accumulation of forces, of seeking complicity in Spain and of the world, in order to build a scene of democratic decision-making for the citizenry. It's a fairly difficult and complicated path, probably long, but transitable. The way you advocate through these tripijocs, on the other hand, is doomed to failure. With the reforms that they are proposing to us today, they can only leave us with an intolerable degradation in parliamentary life. That's why we oppose each other with all firmness. Look, the more cautious – the more cautious – we think it would be, for its part, to reconsider the initiative it has proposed to us. A regulation that clearly does not make any consensus, that has managed to mobilize four – four – items to the totality, that even has the support of a large majority of the chamber, can hardly harmonize its functioning. A rule that responds to this opposition will be sooner, necessarily, a source of problems than a rule that can organize the life and discussions of this Parliament in a fluid way. In any case, if you persist – and we are afraid that this will continue, as you have just explained in the first intervention – then we will try to re-establish the fundamental error of this reform, which is this possibility of dealing with a single reading and scathing the parliamentary debate, laws for the country. Because, I insist, what we have on the side of the table and what will happen is not the discussion of such or such a small article, or such a technical change, but, no more or less, of a law that is the most secret, the most expected and the one that the whole country is longing to know in the end how you intend to organize the release of the sugar in which you have stayed. Therefore, the subject is no less; therefore, the subject is not formal; therefore, the subject cannot be saved by a whole range of small modifications when we actually have a political problem of foundations, which is what we need to address and what we need to solve. We'll try to solve this the best way through exams. Today we raise the political problem and we will continue to give the battle to the end. As we would also look for an understanding by mediating our inquiry tomorrow on the ground of the reference that was previously mentioned, along with the banners and proclamations, building guarantees and recognizable democratic scenes. One more time, we think the pilot's on her roof. If they really want to do things right, they have the opportunity to do them right. And you should start by not transforming the Rules of this Parliament, which must be a rule for all, a democratic rule recognised, agreed, accepted and in which everyone finds himself perfectly comfortable and defended in his right, in the place of doing so, you transform it into a political battle camp for the ends that you do not just confess but that everyone should. In this sense, this is the reason for our task to the totality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.154.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. Subsequently, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.155.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen... And thank you in particular to Mr Turull for thinking of us, in all the opposition, especially when he presented this proposal for a regulation, when, finally, with these amendments what he really wanted was for the whole opposition to have made it easier to do its job. I say this irony, but it is really sad that Mr Turull himself, when he said this here, said it after a smile that clearly he did not believe it either. It is important to be clear what we are discussing here today. It is very important, yes, because precisely what Mr Turull has done is to sell us – to sell us – that, for the groups promoting the reform of the Regulation, it is therefore a simple reform of the Regulation. But no, obviously not. Fortunately, from the beginning – from the beginning – everyone was clear, here in Parliament and, above all, outside it, which is what really matters, that this supposedly well-intentioned reform was something else quite different. Simply and simply – simply and simply – is the attempt of those who are losing to change the rules of the game in the middle of the game. That's it. [[applause]] , the attempt of those who lose wanting to change the rules of the game and against the majority. An attempt to nullify the social majority of Catalans. They don't have a social majority, they don't have a majority of votes – they don't have a majority, either, in the polls. And what are they doing? You want to use the only majority you have, the parliamentary majority that gives you an unjust electoral law, the Spanish one – by the way, the only Spanish law that you want to maintain – [[applause]] to impose on everyone else their rules of the game. And, moreover, to the greatest shame, they have wanted and asked expressly, the same person who here right now said that he had done it for us, that we should be punished for all those Members who do not agree. [[Greetings.]] That's what Mr. Turull has done, and that's in Parliament's session log. So, please, what they don't do is come here and fuck with the opposition Members. They call for the sanction of Members who have not wanted to participate in this pseudo-possession of reform, they call for the sanction of Catalan officials who do not obey them. But, of course, to ask the President of the Generalitat to be punished, who does not go to the conference of presidents and leaves the chair of Catalans empty in breach of his duty and his work, that, I suppose, will not ask to be punished. They call for sanctions and threaten, as Mr Llach did with the officials, that they will have a bad time and suffer if they do not obey his orders. Look, it's simple and plainly a shame. This is what we're living here today. But a shame that, fortunately – fortunately – has a positive side, and that is that it portrays them – portrays them –, and today more, with the entire Junts pel Yes Group standing asking for and applauding sanctions and threats to officials. I thank you for this clear gesture you've had. [[applause]] I really appreciate the first sign of public transparency in all of this. Because lately, among so many lies they say, they're missing some truth, and it's to be thanked. Let us know from the officials in Catalonia that they are listening to us that the President of the Generalitat wants to punish them and threatens them with sanctions if they fail to comply with the Law of Legal Transition, because he has supported today, together with his whole group, the threats that Mr Llach has issued to them. And as for the formality, look, the regulations of the chambers can be reformed, of course, as any law. But they are special laws, parliamentary regulations, and this is what any constitutionalist knows except, surely, Mr Pi-Sunyer. But they are the rules of the game to which political groups are subject. And that is why the need to reform is subject to the consensus of the groups. What happens is that you have an allergy to the rules of the democratic game, you have an allergy. And since they do not favour them, they want to change them by the way of urgency, without agreement and without debate. Without agreement, without debate and by urgent procedure: that is what they want to do. We cannot, of course, ask for absolute agreement on the final content of a reform, of a regulation, but, of course, there is a consensus on the need for reform itself. It is for this reason that the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia set out joint papers as a preferred way of amending them. If there is no such consensus, and I think it is more than obvious that there is no consensus because they have four of the six groups in this House who present an amendment to the whole, which oppose the reform, they always have the ordinary way of proposing legislation. Today, as I say, we are going to vote on a reform proposal with four amendments in all, of six parliamentary groups. But, of course, it is not the reform of the Regulation for the groups that propose it. The aim is to separate itself from Spain and Europe, and the Regulation is simply a_medium to impose here what they have no means or votes to impose outside of here. But no. The Rules, which, by the way, you already jump when you want and have jumped – and I do not say this, is something that is certified judicially with amparo resources that not only my group, but other groups in this chamber have presented and won – is the guarantee of the fundamental rights of the democratic opposition – of the democratic opposition. And I understand them in their despair, one proposal of law takes longer, you can ask for appearances, the opposition has more to say. And that's why they don't want it, because they don't want to give the opposition the opportunity to play their part and do their job. They want, as you have already done, to force you to participate in a paper that is called joint but in which you only want to be, like the one you did in the disconnection laws. This is your disconnection regulation. And like those papers, which were failed, it will also be a failed regulation. What you like is that: forcing, threatening and punishing. And that is applauded – applauded – by the President of the Generalitat himself applauds and says that he will punish officials who do not agree. That is what the President of all Catalans has done today. The funny thing is that they also think, as I say, in their despair, that this reform can somehow legally fix what neither legally nor politically nor socially has no prospect of succeeding. A law that, however much it bears that name, will serve no purpose. They cover three or four interesting things within the rules, to see if you don't notice, this regulation. But from the beginning they have already been caught, if this is the same day that they presented it, as also from the point of view of the processing they did so tremendously badly, for they were caught, and already everyone knew that what they wanted was the theme of the one reading and the other are fireworks, which is that you, when you come here and smile, for, in the end, you put us to egg, because it is that, in the end, everyone sees it: here are cameras, Mr Turull. All of a sudden, among so many beautiful proposals, there is one that, ups, how curious, had never been commented on his need, nor the convenience or usefulness of it: the proposals of law in one reading. Because yes, without justification. Just because most of the camera asks. And, by the way, why is this single reading reform so necessary? Because he hasn't explained it, it's because I haven't listened to him. He has just talked about the need to do the – you have to do the. But, look, this reform, why? Is that what people ask on the street? Is it an imperative need for Catalan society? Is it a majority cry of the parliamentary groups? Well, obviously, no. It is the need for Junts for Yes to get out of his mess because the government does not dare to do what they have said they would do. But no matter what, that's not gonna save them. The funny thing is that those who threaten with sanctions don't dare to do things in case they sanction them, that's the funny thing: they threaten the officials, but they don't dare in case they sanction them. Is reading alone a bad thing in itself? No, no, Is it provided for in other regulations? Of course I do. Is a hammer something wrong? No, no, I have one at home, a hammer at home, and surely many of us here also have one. But if I'm going to do something with a hammer that's different from nailing nails to the wall, maybe someone cares that I have a hammer at home. So this is what's going on here today – this is what's going on here today. [[Greetings.]] The reform they seek means plainly and plainly that a law, any law – any law –, whatever it is, not only the mysterious law of transition, and has one or one hundred thousand articles, simply by asking for it by the parliamentary majority, whether or not it has a social majority, as in this case it does not, can approve it without the other Members being able or proposing amendments... You like the ‘yes or no; we like to go to a deeper debate. We could neither propose amendments, nor call for experts to give their opinion, nor discuss their specific content, nor position ourselves broadly on each of its aspects, nor anything at all. Present a law in the morning and approve it in the afternoon. That sounds like old times. It is precisely that the opposition Members are denied that they can do their job. To annul the democratic opposition and, therefore, in our view, to annul democracy itself. And on top of that, they ask that we be punished by Members for not agreeing. And it's okay. And let those officials who disagree, suffer and have a bad time, who have said so, be punished, and I thank you – sincerity. That's Junts for Yes, that's Esquerra, that's Convergence and that's the President of the Generalitat, who said it today publicly. Thank you, Mr Puigdemont for being clear for once. The good – the good –, if I may say so, the good is that they think that this is the way to fix all the parliamentary and legal absurdity that they intend to mount, with a mysterious proposition of law, hidden under seven keys and that it is the legal panacea that their superexperts have designed to mock the state. In short, less bad than the strategies of his super-cathedrater Mr. Pi-Sunyer last what a candy at the door of a school. You haven't really been looking for a good advisor. Your supersecret law of legal transitionality, however much you do a vote substitute here, will simply be a role – a role –; it will have the same value then, when approved with extraordinary urgency and by one reading, that the one you have now in a Word file, on a computer, I don't know if of the seat of Convergence, of the CUP or of Esquerra. And officials, of course, will not be obliged to comply with a law that nullifies a higher law, which is the Constitution. There will be no legal insecurity or anything like that. Democratic and legal states like Spain have that – they have that. His dream republic in which the laws adopted by representatives of a social minority are not even impregnable will not exist. And they're running out of time. All your clever, cunning, secret strategies to mock democracy have been left in the trash, gentlemen of Junts pel Si. But they want to play the paripé and they want us all to follow the game in their paripé. And, look, no, some of us are not willing; some of us are here to work for health, to work for education, for infrastructure, for a better financing system and to give Catalonia an alternative of sensible and responsible government, not to follow the game in their obsessions and dreams of being protagonists of an epic movie of dessert, which is already boring because we have seen it fifty times in the last five years. Look, do you want to keep thinking that with this regulation your legal strategy is stronger? Go ahead, keep dreaming, the bat will be bigger. There is no valid strategy. But it is that, moreover, because there is not even a strategy, neither valid nor invalid, it simply does not exist. What they do is that they want to repeat on 9 November after saying that the referendum had already been held and had been won, after saying that they want to dialogue with the Government after saying that there was nothing left to dialogue, after having already tried to declare independence at the beginning of the legislature, after saying that the DUI did not, after saying that the DUI did; then that if they present an independent candidate, then not, that an autonomous candidate. Anyway, clear up your road map, because it seems like it was a maze they can't get out of. And on top of it you start fighting each other, because, as there is no strategy – as there is no strategy – each one is doing his or her own and stepping on the other's. And in that loss of energy, time and opportunity for the Catalans we have been since it ruled Convergence, now with the support of Esquerra and the CUP. We have already disconnected ourselves from you and your obsessions, and we think of making an alternative government possible that works for all Catalans in what matters most, which of course is not to repeat a new November 9th. And in the meantime we will not follow the game in the attempts to nullify the democratic opposition so that we cannot denounce their inaction, their waste, the corruption of some of their parties, in the end... And if they want to punish us for it, like the officials. They may have a role to play in establishing a transitional law and they may be able to tell those who believe they have done so. But in this previous step, from here, and as the main opposition group, we are going to say no to your regulation as well as to your imperative need to nullify the democratic opposition that bothers you so much. Thank you. [[Perlongats applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.156.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror-Saavedra. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.157.0	Thank you very much, President. In 1931 one of the most exciting legal debates in history began, the one known as Kelsen versus Carl Schmitt debate. It was not, as was said at that time, a debate between two different ways of understanding democracy. Unfortunately, time showed that it was a debate between democracy, which Kelsen defended, and totalitarianism disguised as the will of the people, the Carl Schmitt model. For the subject we are dealing with today, what Kelsen, the father of positivism, said is that there has to be a higher standard, rules of the game, a principle of legality above the majorities, which are circumstantial, temporary, and therefore can be modified every four years, and that those rules of the game we had to agree among all so that there would be a real democracy. Carl Schmitt drank from other very different sources: Hegel, Fichte, Heidegger. By the way, some of the sources that inspired some of the most regrettable episodes in Europe's history in the last two hundred years. Applied to what we are dealing with today, Carl Schmitt argued that a short-term, circumstantial and momentary majority could modify the rules of the game at his will, without having to consult anyone, appealing to the will of the people. Sounds like it to you, doesn't it? Fortunately, the history of the European Union is Kelsen's victory over Carl Schmitt. Fortunately, Spain's autonomy, which is inspired by the values of the European Union, is also Kelsen's victory over Carl Schmitt. It is the victory, in short, of democracy. You bring here today a reform of the Rules of Procedure which may seem trivial, but it is not. It's a very serious matter. We are aware that it will not monopolize coffee shops and bars in Catalonia, but it is a very serious matter. To reform such a regulation is to collect the worst legal practices in history. Reforming a regulation like this is only done by the Nicolás Maduro in turn – the Nicolás Maduro in turn. [[Greetings.]] Reforming a regulation in this way only those who seek to modify the rules of the game arbitrarily do so, even with the fifty plus one. It is a practice, you who speak so much of Europeanism, absolutely unprecedented in Europe, in European democracies, since the Treaty of Rome. It is also an unprecedented practice in Spain of autonomy, although some cases have been mentioned here. In the Congress of Deputies the Socialist Party has enjoyed three absolute majorities, and the People's Party, two, but the regulations have always been adopted by consensus, because they are the rules of the game. They are neither the electoral programs nor the ideologies, they are the rules of the game, and they have always been adopted by consensus. But it is curious, it has also been the historical practice in this chamber, in the Parliament of Catalonia. Only by analysing and referring to the most recent reforms, in 2005, during the full statutory debate, and it was a difficult time, the Rules of Procedure of this Chamber were adopted, a joint presentation, that joint submission of all the parliamentary groups, was established, with a text agreed by all the parliamentary groups. In January 2011, all parliamentary groups realized that the election result at that time constituted a rather sui generis mixed group, with the presence of four members of Solidarity for Independence, three citizens, and all groups understood, in consensus, that it was necessary to create the figure of the parliamentary subgroup; it was agreed among all that reform. The last, and most recent, is the reform of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia for their adaptation to the Law of transparency; unanimity, consensus. That is what you have decided to break today, the unanimity and consensus necessary to define the rules of the game. The rules of the game we all have to decide. And if not, that is a situation of democratic anomaly. And you have settled in constant situations of democratic anomaly. Democratic anomalies such as the establishment of poorly-named papers together with only two political groups, violating the rights of deputies, as reflected in two recent rulings of the Constitutional Court. Democratic anomalies such as admission to parliamentary initiatives on a conditional basis, twisting the Rules of Procedure and distorting them to completely unsuspected limits. Democratic anomalies such as the constant delegitimization of the legal services of this house, which are not political, placing them, against their will, in a scenario, I repeat, which is not theirs, that of politics, and which should never be the case. In short, democratic anomalies such as the threats discussed earlier, coercion to officials, Mr Vidal's fiscal data ; episode after episode that exceeds every day our capacity for stupefaction. No, the reform of the Rules of Procedure that you bring here today will not monopolize coffee chatter, but it is a very serious and worrying issue; it is the typical practice of those who change the rules of democratic play to start a transition to a system that has nothing democratic. The reference to Nicolás Maduro was not free; you are following exactly what this gentleman is doing. I want to advance them to lose all hope, to lose all hope because identity totalitarianism always loses, always. Sometimes it seems to be winning, it even gives that feeling, but democratic firmness always defeats it. Today, probably, after the adoption of the regulation, they will do one of their performances again – they will applaud for a long time, they will be very excited, it is possible that even some tears of how excited you are – but tomorrow, and without a solution of continuity, you will continue to spy on each other, skinning yourself in the corridors of this Parliament, because you carry disloyalty in your political DNA and you have always carried it. [[Greetings.]] Identity totalitarianism seems to be winning, but it always loses. Use tricks, tricks, shortcuts, bumps. Why? Because it lacks the essentials: it has no social majority, no real parliamentary stability, no solid leadership, no international support, no genuine unity of action. Identity totalitarianism seems to be winning, but in the end it always loses, because these cunning, sharpness, shortcuts, sometimes recovecs can give them small victories, but they usually last as long as twenty-four hours, because sooner or later – they carry it in their nature – and even though they hide, they get the Gabriel Rufián that they carry inside. Congratulations on having named him because no one represents better than him the moral chastisement of the process that you carry in your hands and that of all of you. How well that man defines them! I'm so glad you're representing them! [[Some applause.]] Says the great Johan Cruyff... [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, if you're ashamed of Gabriel Rufián because I say he represents you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.158.0	Please, please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.159.0	...so, say it publicly; I'll let you speak... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.160.0	Quiet, and please. They don't do dialy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.161.0	Well, I don't blame him for being ashamed; I'd be colored every day. But, well, each... [[remorse of the eyes and laughs]] , each with his little ones, in short, democratic anomalies, gentleman. [[Widow's remorse.]] No, if I said it already defines you, but no, no, cheer, cheer, follow you like this, that tomorrow you will continue skinning each other. I was saying, and we just checked it on the spot in the session... the great Johan Cruyff used to say that with the bad footballers you don't have to worry about, that they score themselves. And sometimes, and as I was right, they want to let them mark themselves and continue to skin themselves, spying on themselves and these things. But do you know what's going on? That we are not in football, we are in democracy, and what you do, identity totalitarianism – which never wins, always loses – on the road does much harm; it does much harm to coexistence, democracy, institutions and their credibility. And, therefore, although I will not deny that we sometimes want to leave them alone, we will respond with serenity and firmness, and with optimism, convinced of the invincible force that the rule of law and true democracy has, because true democracy, this yes, always wins. Thank you so much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.162.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.163.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, advisors, advisors, deputies and deputies... Mr Turull, I don't think you can help us. If all that they do with the reform of the Rules of this House is to help us, I say to you that, on the part of the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the combination of the papers to the totality that have been presented, that there are four of six groups, they can already withdraw this proposal for reform of the Rules of Parliament. Look, some Member said that this debate would certainly not form part of the coffee shops in this country, but I must convey to them that in my parliamentary group today, we are concerned and we are also sad about the reform and the debate we have today in this Parliament. And we're sad because we're putting the prestige of the institution... we're lowering it, the prestige of the institution we're part of; we're breaking the trust between parliamentary groups, a trust that works very hard to build, but it doesn't work very hard to break down, and also because it's in question, too, the democratic quality of this institution that we all share. And that's why, beyond the technical debate that we have between us and the vote that will be produced from here to a station, so we're worried and we're sad. You have made it possible for a regulatory reform to be a star theme of the Ple, and every day that passes you are crossing lines that worry those we are not independent, but I think that too many independents of good faith are ashamed that they say that not so, that you skip the laws, that mismatching our institutions is not the way to go. Regulatory reforms, until now, showed joint work, showed willingness to participate all with guarantees and respect. That's not it anymore. There have been many reforms of the regulations in this Parliament, but there has been no such reform. They came to be, the reforms, the symbol of what this chamber is supposed to be, a space for debate, for contrasting ideas and for consensus. I would say that Mr Turull has come to us today with a reform, one that said he has to see with the rights of the deputies, that he has to see with fears to make the chamber more flexible, more permeable, but the real one, that he has not moved here today, in the Faristol, but that they have explained to the wrong and right, that they have come to say that they have found a way to deceive the Rajoy Government with an express reform of the Rules that allows the express approval of the law of disconnection, that they do not give time to resort before they achieve their objective, that it will be the break with Spain. That's the real objective that's behind it. So, Mr. Turull, you don't queue up here to explain to us what you're doing for the hourly conciliation, you don't queue up to say you're going to talk about the ILP promoter committees. It was before we were worried and sad because they broke their trust. I want to put it in full, this subject: I, unfortunately, this, what is happening today is exactly the opposite of what Parliament should be. The reform of the rules of the game must be done by consensus, and you, who are doing here two of the six groups, is breaking that trust. On the other hand, you also have to blow your mouth so often that this is the house of the people of Catalonia, that the Parliament has to obey democratic mandates, and my parliamentary group has transferred this question to you: I do not know if democratic pluralism, political pluralism is not for you too a democratic mandate. Because the plot they are perpetrating today, the result of this plot means a flap of rights to the groups in the chamber and also the flap of the debates. At the end of a few weeks of being a Member, and I am talking about the year 2010, I remember a meeting of the Socialist Parliamentary Group in which the Higini Clotas joined, who then represented our group at the Bureau of Parliament, and explained to us that they had arrived at a principle of agreement, which we had to sew, which was the creation of subgroups – before any Member referred to it, before I did. Fixi's, this would now be impossible to build, this consensus. We had a mixed group that formed the Citizens' and Solidarity' Deputies, two very different views of the country, and this Parliament was able to arrive at a consensus and generate a new figure that did not appear in the Rules, in other words sub-groups, that gave a voice and allowed space to explain very different ideas, from a very different Catalonia that defended these two groups. Today, ladies and gentlemen, this would be impossible. The Higini Clotas also explained to me how they were months and months in a joint position all groups after the adoption of the Statute of Autonomy seeking coincidences, making resignations and finding the common denominator of what the Catalonian Parliament's Rules of Procedure should be, which is a consensus document. And why would they do that? So, because by definition the Parliament has to gather all that we think differently and represent the citizenship of our country. I have said Article 55 of our Statute: "Parliament is its voice, preferably pluralism, and it makes the political debate public. This is a reality until this reform. Where's that? I ask the Members of Convergence, I ask the Members of the Republican Left: how is it that parties with so much parliamentary tradition are now the torpedoes of the good name and functioning of the Parliament, the ones who steal the debate and go through the back door? We do not understand the Socialist Group. With your practices, what will this institution be like, until now the result of consensus? I also wanted to refer to the transcendence of change – some Member also referred to it. Our Parliament's Rules of Procedure are a legal rule that in a special procedure of elaboration, approval and perfection expresses our power of self-organization. It is not a text of internal administration nor a mere organizational resolution with internal effects. Our Rules of Procedure derive directly from the Statute of Autonomy. In its Article 58.2 it defines it as a rule of expression of parliamentary autonomy. It fits into our legal order with the same character of stability and permanence as the rest of the standards that make it up, and also with the same force to force. For all these reasons and transcendence of the text, now, with an unagreed reform, you are breaking consensus, asking for the necessary agreements to change the rules of the game. When this fever passes, and I'm not talking about independence, I'm talking about the fever and the illegality of the democratic mandate, we'll have to recompose and rebuild a lot of things, and honourable Members, the Rules of Parliament will also have to rebuild it, because they'll have left this institution very touched too. I also want to convey the third argument I was commenting on, and we are talking about democracy, we are talking about democratic quality. You, who define themselves as democrats, therefore, also speak of democracy for express disconnection, and we want to put this into the net. You, who base everything on this concept that you want to patrimonialize, who also want to expel from it those we think are different, democracy. You are the democrats to defend the referendum for independence, as if those who do not want the referendum for independence were no longer democrats. Great lesson in democracy, ladies and gentlemen. It is paradoxical, however, that you, who claim to patrimonialize democracy, are now the ones who are putting it in dubt by stealing the parliamentary debate. That's what's going on this late in this Parliament. You tell us once and for all that they are so democrats and that they are in a hurry to vote. To us, to whom we think differently, they want to let us vote less, they want to let us debate less. What a contradiction, isn't it? It is like Congressman Llach, who says that who does not complete the law, his law, will be punished, but who continues to tell us that the members of the Bureau who skip the law are being persecuted for justice. [[Widow's remorse.]] Very coherent, everything, very coherent. We would like to remind you once again that questioning the rule of law with regard to law enforcement agencies is not a lawful or legitimate option, so we demand that the parliamentary debate be developed in the context of respect for the law and the decisions of the courts. Look, we're also democrats, and that's why we don't want to be independent by force and in secret, and that's why we don't want your reform of this Rules. We don't understand why they're doing this either, because it looks like they've been pulling one piece at a time, one piece at a time of their aspirations. President Puigdemont and Vice President Junqueras say this process will do well and with full legal certainty. Do they do things like this, changing the rules with the game started, how do they want to spread this social base? How can they say they want to do things right if what they're doing is pulling for the right? How do they want to disobey laws and think that there will be no legal consequences? How do you want to attract a path from the rebellion of the smiles that have now changed it for the transitional law sanctioning regime? His path to independence, ladies and gentlemen, is watching opacity, he is watching unilateralism, he is watching disobedience, and now he is also watching the elimination of the rights of the deputies who represent a majority of votes of all opposition. And the reform of the Rules for Express Approval of Disconnection, for us is the top of the process, since it unravels all the positive connotations that with a lot of money, with a lot of political marketing, with a lot of public and concerted media had collaborated to fix this semantic camp, that they would do well. Even in their strategy of internationalization of the process, do they not believe that we are ahead of a canonical approach that goes hand in hand with the rights of Members of the opposition to expressly approve a law of legal transitionality? The truth is that we haven't just heard the strategy and they're staying a long way from this hashtag that they like to put on the # LoveDemocracy. I'm done. You also say, and it's another hashtag that they serve, that they're in a hurry, and we really have a permanent tension in this country between speeding up and doing things right. We have seen before a debate in which a law that had been approved a few weeks ago was changed; it passes us with taxes, passes us with laws and also passes us with disconnection. The law of transitoryity, the reform that seeks the approval of the law of transitoryity in unit of act, have explained to us that it is motivated to avoid the action of the courts, because there is no time to resort to the report of control of legality, we are also told that they do not want the Council of Guarantees to be pronounced? Is that what democracy is? Is this the... how deep is the new Catalan republic? Don't you want a debate to be? Don't they want or consider our opinions? We've seen the rush, we've seen the rush these past five years of cars that don't carry us around: extra-ordinary emergency papers, puzzles that carry months without or open the puzzle, unique reading papers that carry months to the Spokesman's Board and that don't carry them because the government doesn't propose them... You don't just have the wrong plans, but you do it too badly. This reform of the Rules, too, is extremely urgent. Calia? Would you like to do that out of extreme urgency? Would you like to make a pseudoponency of two of six groups that in two minutes had finished the debate? We've done the math, haven't we? May 15th can already hold the reform here, and by June 1st, in the plethora of June firsts we can already hold the law of disconnection. Is that it? Is that the plan? That's it, how do we want to pull the full route forward? They reform a regulation so that they can approve what suits them, when the more I convince them, without debate and without transparency. Does this have to be the arrival of this exceptional legislature? The chairman of my group, Mr Miquel Iceta, said this morning: "They are still in time to try to do things right. Withdraw the proposal of the Rules of Parliament, that the only one you pursue is to limit the role of opposition, limit filters and reduce controls to which you yourself say it will be the most important law of contemporary Catalonia. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.164.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granados. Next, to fix his position, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.165.0	Well, good afternoon. There has been a brief discussion of the precedents..., not so much of the precedents, but above all of the different regulatory reforms that had taken place in this chamber, and the truth is that we, in this very short parliamentary life that we have, only had the opportunity to participate in a debate on the Rules, which was that of the last legislature, the reform that was approved at the end of July 2015, if I have not remembered it badly, and in which, moreover, we did not participate. That is to say, we didn't devote ourselves to the question because with only three Members, so the truth is that we didn't get to everything, we had to make a necessary selection of the participation in the debates – which didn't worry much, huh? , say, the majority of the parliamentary chamber, not to mention none– and, in any case, we did not participate in the reform of the Rules in 2015. Now, on this occasion, in which it is presented in 2017, we have not led this reform proposal, I say, to clarify, but a rebuttal, and before the possibility to take up the debate on the Regulation, therefore, we have assumed it and we are prepared, moreover, to contribute to improving the Regulation of the House. I'm saying this to avoid the tempt that someone can say that why we didn't set up better last year's legislature. I have tried to justify why, and why, in this case, we will take up the debate. The debate, moreover, that we have already announced on different occasions with regard to different proposals that we do want to work on. In this very plenary session, in the land of a young man we had presented – who, of course, we lost, but all of this we will again urge – so that in the processing of popular legislative initiatives it was not possible to address the whole... We hope that, when there is a civic involvement of popular organization behind a proposal, this can enter into the debate, as at least, therefore, into the material debate. We'll also plant a few better ones in relation to the commission function. We think we have a lot of work to do for what it does to exhibitions and interventions that promote many times more the generation of headlines than not in depth work. Also in relation to presupposition – as we have already said – we believe that political groups participate in the presupposition debate when the first item has already been passed, and that is not really heard. It would be better to have the opportunity to discuss the different councils in advance at the first debate in totality. And in this sense, therefore, as I say, we take up the debate and we will contribute to the better. Now, I want to add one thing, because it is not part of our political culture to store us with anything: if we have a single reading to process the reference law, we assume and now we are, that we will be willing to process the reference law for one reading. [[Greetings.]] Some parliamentary groups are not prepared to take part in a debate on the law of reference, nor that it was for one reading or that it was not. Some groups of this parliamentary chamber have no intention of debating around a law calling the referendum. In fact, some groups present in this chamber the only interest you have is to denounce us to what we want to call and celebrate this reference. No single reading or urgent procedure: you decide to resolve the conflict we have with the Spanish State through the Constitutional Court. So that you don't matter to them so much at last the single reading of a law as, for example, that of the reference, because regardless of whether this is going this way or not, you have already decided to report us on this issue. So, then, with you, if you get out, instead of finding us at the stand, we know we'll find each other in court. Therefore, I believe that the problem is not ultimately the processing of a single reading, which has already been explained the type of mechanism which is and which is ultimately the decision of the majority of the plenary, and here, that I know, there is no parliamentary group that bears the majority; in fact, there is a variable force geometry in the votes, we have said it on many occasions, and sometimes, therefore, it is Together for the Yes with the PP, that they come together in some things, sometimes we remain alone, sometimes we remain alone with Catalonia Yes, it is possible, and this is the day-to-day of this parliamentary chamber. I say that because sometimes it seems like there's a majority that works like a slug, and that's not exactly what it is. Therefore, we insist, the problem is not part of the reform that is proposed, but the problem is that it is not prepared to take on a democratic debate at all, as is all that, therefore, has to trigger the call for this reference. With regard to some questions that the different groups have said, I don't know if I'll have time to go over them all, but there have been some interventions, like at least, that deserve to be commented on. The intervention of the People's Party, the most corrupt party in Europe, and the intent of right-wing class or right-wing theory, more quickly, that has tried to make us, and before this diatribe that you drew, whether Kelsen or Schmitt..., I don't know what the delegation of sovereignty to the European Union is and the direct affect it has on our lives and the impoverishment of the working class. Is that Kelsen or is that Schmitt? What is the reform of the Constitution, why go ahead with the interests financed over the life of the working class? , a constitutional reform that you did with night and betrayal. Is that Kelsen or is that Schmitt? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] To change the parliamentary debate on the basis of the permanent intervention of the Constitutional Court, is it in the matter of housing, in the matter of gender, in the matter of culture, in the matter of status, in which it is; to change the norms of the parliamentary debate, which seems to worry them so much, from the executioner arm of the Constitutional Court, is Kelsen or is Schmitt, that? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They care very little about you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.166.0	Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.167.0	...the processing of the unique reading, they matter very little. Now, I don't care that they matter a little; what matters to me is that you banalize identity totalitarianism in this way. [[Greetings.]] You leave Kelsen, you leave Schmitt, you leave the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.168.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.169.0	... Hannah Arendt, and again as she is, of perils, banish evil, as she is, of perils, call "totalitarian" to what is not or call "identity" to what is not. More Hannah Arendt and less Constitutional Court. [[Greetings.]] A Catalunya Si que es Pot, respects the broad agreement that it would be desirable to achieve, both good and good. But a broad agreement on certain issues with the People's Party, the Socialist Party and the Citizens' Party is not possible. Therefore, beyond the world of ideas, there is the world of parties, and in the land of parties it is impossible to reach agreements with these people. Here the play that dances is not that of the People's Party, that of Ciutadans or that of the Socialist Party, here the play that dances is just his. The part that dances is what we need because, when you diagnose that the right to self-determination is in a state of coma, you do something because you didn't just die. Because the cushioned path we reserve for the National Referendum Pact is not that it's difficult and complicated, no, no: it's impossible. Consent, with whom? With the people who send us to the National Court? Or with the people who sing the face to the sun when they bury French ministers? [[Greetings.]] Who do we consent to? As for Ciutadans, there is a whole initial part of his intervention that the truth is that, as we haven't heard from each other, so I won't be much entertained either. But we, in fact, have a very rigorous reading of the results of September 27. We said that they were not enough, the results that had been achieved, to believe that we had a social majority in favour of independence. And that's why we defend a lot and a lot of reference, and that's why we work to make it possible. But it's that the reference does not satisfy them, either, to you. Why, if you are so concerned about the social majority and whose band is the social majority, why not look for the instrument that allows you to count this social majority? Because we don't say we have it, but you don't have it either. It's just that you, at this time, can't say that there is a majority of people in Catalonia who are not in favour of independence. The only thing you can say is that we don't know if we have a social majority; but what's worse is that you don't care to ratify if you do, the social majority. I don't know what is democratic, more democratic: if you actually celebrate a referendum and can campaign for no and win no, don't deny us this possibility. Neither do you worry about the one reading, which you worry about is that this people can self-determine themselves and that the social majority is not with you. But I say one thing: if the social majority are with you and voted not, we would respect that; I don't know if you can say the same. [[Greetings.]] You talked about the hammer, and that you, like a lot of people, surely have a hammer at home, but the hammer only serves to pin key. So, no: the hammers have sometimes been used to blow up chains, because the keys only had the powerful, the kings, the elites. And we, if we have to blow up the keys, we'll take the hammers to do it, we'd just miss it. [[Greetings.]] The PSC – which is running out of time – are very worried and very sad. We are concerned and sad to see the role played by the PSC, which is very much concerned about which lines are passed, but do not worry about the lines passed by the People's Party in its interventions, nor about the lines that have been crossed in this Parliament when they have not been able to recognize the pain inflicted on the victims of the 4-F; that you have used the institution during all these years to contribute to the institution's plunder, and this seems to be a line that can be passed peacefully. Finally, we are in front of a fund dispute: right to the self-determination or legality of the bailiff of 78. It's obvious to us that we've triumphed. There is autonomy and praise for the consensus of autonomy, and before that, perhaps, there is the world we bring to our hearts. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.170.0	Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.171.0	Yes; thank you very much, President. Well, I, in the first place, express satisfaction, because I have to deduce, for all its interventions, that from the seven modifications there is no one who is absolutely in favour of it, and, therefore... because they have neither spoken nor spoken, and therefore give us the reason why we propose to modify things, that you help them. It is so tender as to be credible, all its interventions, that it was still a rule of how we should do well to make independence. Actually, it was very intractable, but I would say that I had very little. Mr. Rabell, says: "Have you organized all this reindeer for all this? We didn't organize it; you organized it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, you organized it. But I think you were wrong about that. You came here to talk about the law of transition, independence, all this. And then, in addition, he makes us a proposal that... look, this Catalan republic in the Spanish monarchy is complicated, but this approving the law of transitionality with the consent of all political forces is already part of science-fiction. And then don't fool us – don't fool us. Says: "That's changing the rules of the game to the same competition. Yeah. And the proposal you have put forward now to amend the statutory guarantee board now, what is that? , modify the rules of what? What's wrong with Why can you go to the State Guarantee Board? Is that nothing to change? So, miri... And then you say to us: "Oh! If you knew what your parliamentary groups were going to say to the Congress of Deputies when they did one reading... you're right. But one question that is no less: Is the Congressional Bureau of the Deputies queried? Is she persecuted for her political ideology? Is that what you're talking about? Is...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, no – no, no. Is she being chased, or is she just here? [[applause]] – is she being chased, or is she just here? The lord of Ciutadans says that... well, he laughs. Well, I don't know, I have a problem: that if rich means I'm in and if they don't tell me I'm in, you'll be in. But... I'm sorry; so I say I am, right? But he says: "You, thinking of the opposition... Yes, we thought of the opposition, yes. When you were to make a dress to measure and Mr. Albert Rivera came to the parliamentary group saying: "This should be done, you should do something that does not exist in the Rules, which is a subgroup, so we will end up doing it. Yeah, because there was a new reality and we were going to do this, we were going to adapt, weren't we? He said: "It is an attempt to silence the majority and to silence the voice. Miri, here is only an attempt to silence the voice of this Parliament. And don't look at us: look at the prosecution and look at the Constitutional Court, who came in here, tell us what we can talk about, when we can talk and who can talk. That's the only one I'm trying to do. And you come here with a few cooks of things, when it turns out that the problem that this Parliament has is the issue of the prosecution, that it pursues and tells us: "If they are not independentists they can talk about the secession of Catalonia, but if they are independentists they cannot make a sad proposal about the secession of Catalonia. And then you started here with a demagogue, already, there, that I already know that it's an expression that I say a lot, of the fence and the sanctions here and the sanctions there..., I suppose to find his gloria minute on some of these televisions that they make them. I believe that you, lords of Ciutadans, are simply [[remorse of the voice]] You, lords of Ciutadans, I think you're concocting... someone said that you're concocting the world and the reason for having reason and the world for it, and concocting it. Because they've come to say a series of... [[applause]] They've come to say a series of animals I don't understand. He said: "Posi'un exemple. Miri, there was a law of an article – and surely Councilman Rull remembers – about the subject of animal protection, which was an article – an article! –... a year and six months – an article. Well, the unique reading – he says: « Put 'an example' – serves for this. Socialists..., a subject of cassation appeal, an article: New Months, trigated this modification. So, there are examples that are common, aren't there? And to the Lord of the People's Party, first of all, do you know how to change the Rules of Procedure at the Congress of Deputies? For one reading. The Rules. For one reading. You're afraid of what? As the name of the members of the General Council of the Judiciary. And, listen, yes, you, the one reading of great debates, but you have changed the subject of the replacement of the crown, the subject of reform of the Constitutional Court, the subject of the LOREG... The LOREG: that is to change the standards of the game to mid-game, to change the electoral law with a single reading, because Mr Rajoy could be president of the Government. And you come to us to donate here...? Says: "Listen, change the rules of the game. But, see, what's the game and what's the condition? Because it turns out that the referee is not wearing his team's samarreta: he's a hooligan for his team. We have this problem – we have this problem. And so, what we're not gonna do is genius, and when it turns out the referee is not that he's better off here than there, no, he's just going with the samarreta and the flag of the other team, so, as he'll understand, we're not naive, right? And, listen, then, let's get to the bottom of the issue; and Mrs. Gabriel said so and she was right: listen, the issue..., and if we want to talk about the law of transitoryity, that no one said it was done for this mechanism, but let's not give up on any mechanism. For you the problem is not single-read processing, for you the issue is processing. Because now you are said, the Lord Mirror said: "There is no debate there– there is no debate there. There won't be a chance of it, there won't be a chance of it. We, at the zero minute of this term, propose to do so with the longest way there is, that it is the joint pose, with a blank full, because everyone can say theirs, and what have you done, that so much you want the debate, the participation, the right of thought and all that? They're going to the Constitutional Court. [[Greetings.]] You've done an act today... you've done an act of hypocrisy today. We wanted it, this debate, with all its size, but we found that neither let us talk nor let us argue, and, much less, they tell us not to let us approve. And, how will you understand, what's moving us? We are moving our commitment to the citizens of Catalonia. And the PSC says that it's given us a whole series of tips on how to make independence – it's very unfathomable, Mrs. Eva Granados – but it's hard for us to make the PSC paper. The photo of Mr. Iceta with Mr. Albiol and Mrs. Arriadas to the Constitutional Court to go there to say: "Hey, for if you have passed by, that there in the Parliament of Catalonia they want to make a very wide debate on the subject of the law of transitoryity. This is the paper that ended up making the PSC: the palm tree of the People's Party and Ciutadans. Who saw them and who saw them! And, therefore, the foundation of the question – therefore, the foundation of the question – is this: you do not come to us with these advices and with these excuses. For you the one reading is not the problem; the problem is that you know of the determination of this Parliament and this government to bring their commitment to the citizens of Catalonia. And, look, I'm gonna end up in a way that's a little peculiar, but I think it sums up a little bit the state of the matter, and I'm gonna say it, that I ended up with enough value in this way, huh? But I will not quote either Kelsen or Schmitt; I will quote Cruyff, and what you do I have a merit [[relays]] And I hope Titon knows how to forgive me. But when the Cruyff said playing football is very easy, but playing a simple football is the hardest thing that exists... We would like to do it very easy, but between you and your connection with the prosecution, with the Constitutional Court, etc., we are putting it very difficult; difficult, which I don't mean impossible, because we will do it and we will do it possible. Thank you very much. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.172.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. The debate is over, we're calling for a vote. Why ask me the word, Mr. Iceta?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.173.0	[[For technical reasons, the first words of the speaker's intervention have not been recorded.]] ...unified for the yes. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.174.0	All right, Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.175.0	Or it was Junts for the Yes. Jo, just one thing. I am constantly applying the Lluís Llach doctrine: the laws must be completed; if they are not completed there are sanctions; who imposes the sanctions are the courts.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.176.0	Mr. Turull, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.177.0	Yes; for direct allusions of Mr. Iceta to the name of the party. I wouldn't know whose phase it is now.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.178.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.179.0	The laws are to complete them, and, as you tell us every day, if they don't like a law, modify it; so, that's what we're doing here today. Thank you. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.180.0	Let us begin the vote, therefore, on the proposal to reform the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament of Catalonia. The vote begins... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The emena, he forgave– he forgave. The emena, yes – yes. We're interrupting the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah, yeah, I thought it was, huh? Maybe not– maybe not. So, let's go vote on the papers, let's vote on the four papers. They will jointly vote on the four proposals for reform of the Catalonian Rules of Procedure. The vote begins. The proposals for reform of the Rules of Procedure of Catalonia have been rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. As they have been rejected, this initiative can continue its processing. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a law reforming the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and assistance to suicide (debate of totality)]] [[270-00005/11]] The sixth item on the agenda is: a total debate on the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for the reform law of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code, decriminalization of euthanasia and assistance to suicide. In accordance with Rules 173 and 114.2 of the Rules, this initiative will be presented to the four parliamentary groups which sign the proposal, for a maximum of two minutes each. And you know that, as always, you ask them, please, to leave the hemicicle in silence so that we can continue with the session. [[Long break.]] In the first place, has the word the lady Assumpta Escarp, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.181.0	Thank you, President. First of all, I would like to greet the companies and companies of the Dret platform to Morir Dignament, who today have wanted to accompany us in this debate, as they have also done in other debates that we have had in this Parliament; a debate on a proposal for law which, as stated in the statement, we have signed four parliamentary groups and which must be in itself a recognition of your task, your struggle, the compromise and the example that you have given us. José Antonio Arrabal, fifty-eight years old, ELA's disease, on the 2nd of this month, this April, ended with the agony that the disease caused him and left us a witness: "The lack of a law of euthanasia obliges me to stop living like this, alone. And Ramón Sampedro or all those people we don't know who are anonymous people came to the memory. Because now, as now, Article 143 of the Criminal Code, still in force, condemns the cause of death of others or actively cooperate with them with necessary and direct actions for their express, serious and unequivocal petition, in case the victim suffers from a severe malaise. The Criminal Code speaks of a victim because what he defines is an attenuated homicide. The proposal of the law we are discussing today and we want to approve with the maximum consent does not propose to derogate from all of these departures from Article 143, because if we do this we will open the door to a major criminalization. What is proposed is an explicit and clear reference to the apology. Says the proposal: "He will be free from criminal responsibility who by express request, free and unambiguous of a person who suffers from a severe illness..., etc. Above all, we also want to talk about incurable pathology that causes physical or psychological pain. A few days ago José María Mena, former head of fiscal office in Catalonia, was reflecting on the legal connection and politics in euthanasia; he found that a lengthy debate is necessary, but that addressing euthanasia is a good thermometer to measure the temperature of sincerity of the legislators' willingness to progress, because, as another author, Miquel Seguro, says, if death is in itself a taboo for an indoctrinate society in success and in happy endings, it is still more the desire to want to die. We need to talk more about death, break this taboo that makes it hard, even, to express it. In fact, we've said it before, at the hospital, we don't die, we're out. Therefore, speak to us and live with dignity the process of our death, for all of us. There has been a lot of debate, also in our country, around euthanasia. Since 94, at least seven times has been debated at the Congress of Deputies. From 98 to 2000 the Special Commission for the Study of Euthanasia, created in the Senate, convened and heard more than forty experts. At the same Parliament in Catalonia at least three times we have discussed presenting what we are proposing today. At the beginning of the year 2006 the Consulting Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, to the Report on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide, said: "The principles of dignity, autonomy and welfare of the patient are ethically acceptable and constitutionally possible to decriminalize euthanasia and help suicide. This conclusion is the result of a deliberate, open, plural and rigorous process that coincides with a line of majority thinking favourable to this decriminalization, in one or another variant, in the context of a broad social debate. We are in the year 2017, and this month José Antonio Arrabal has again questioned us. It is clear that the passage of the years has added new facts and realities to the debate, international referents. Now as we can already evaluate the experiences of Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, the states of Oregon, Vermont, Montana and California, Quebec, Canada, Colombia... And the committees responsible for reviewing the cases that guarantee transparency and control in these countries, after years of application of euthanasia, show that there has not been a higher percentage of euthanasia petitions by people who may be considered in situations of vulnerability. Since the first CIS survey in 2009, specific on euthanasia, where there has already been a wide support of 77,5_per_cent, there have been others, in 2011, 2015 with similar results. In 2015, the survey that Ipsos Mori made for The Economist fifteen European countries Spain was in the fourth place after Belgium, France and Holland in social support to euthanasia. The last question, facte this 2017, expands the percentages up to 84_per_cent. We have a favourable state of opinion and we need to seek the highest social and political consensus, along with apprehensions, political opportunisms, prejudices and ideological sectarianisms, because we are talking about a right, the right to die dignifiedly. I did it before I referred to the Bioethics Committee report, and the truth is that it's from the year 2006, but it should be reread when you talk about the right to life and the principle of dignity of the person, and you say: "Dignity appears as an expression of individual freedom for which at a certain point a person may decide to stop living because he/she understands that he/she lives in unworthy conditions. At the same time, it is imperative that this person's decision about his or her dignity be respected for others even though the jutgin is incomprehensible. This conception of dignity allows the connection between the right to life and the right of each person to decide freely. It is when the person decides that his life ceases to have the dignity that he deserves any human life, and that, as long as he is consistent with the right to dignity, he freely decides to stop living. Human dignity must be especially recognized in the forms of hearing and living the fact of death and its vulnerability, as well as in the struggle against unnecessary suffering. We also said, in the discussion of the motion that we did a few months ago here, well, the month of generation, in this Parliament, that Catalonia was in front of the legislation on patients' rights, on the document of early volunteers and on the document of the development of palliative care. We wanted to deepen the legal framework already in place, and so we did on four points: knowledge, as is the case in Catalonia, with the creation of the Observers for Death; information, information to the citizenry and promotion of the document of early vows; guarantee of universal access to palliative care with territorial equity all the days of the year, twenty-four hours a day, with coordination of resources, and above all training of all health personnel in rights and forms of care for the sick at the end of their lives. And in that motion we gather what we do today: continue to advance in the guarantee of the right to dignified death and the right of the patient to decide, and therefore to modify the current penal legislation. It will be a step further, because we must begin to work, after decriminalization, in the regulation on strict procedural conditions for the authorised euthanistic practices of the international expert and the work carried out so far; we must discuss and debate the situation of the disease, the presence of terminal illness that causes severe pain; we must work on the expression of his or her will, as is the express, serious and unequivocal requirement; on whom people must intervene in the decision-making process; on which proper control by means of specific control and supervision committees we have in our law. It is these aspects that should be collected and collected in a law of self-determination, which guarantees free personal autonomy and, at the same time, the protection of the most vulnerable collectivities, because we must age to prevent those who are vulnerable or sick from being manipulated and being used to serve the interests of other people. There are already several autonomous parliaments that have called for decriminalization and regulation of euthanasia. In a first step, it will be necessary to harmonize the different laws on the right to death worthy of and access to palliative care, and to continue to advance in social and political debate seeking consensus and, as I said to the principle, oblivious to harm and hardship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.182.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Next is the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.183.0	Thank you; thank you, Madam President. Thanks to Marcos Ariel and the family. Thanks to the people of the DMD who are back with us here today. I think it's worth thanking them that... they're not just here, but the patience they have with us in the best they think we're doing, moving forward towards decriminalization of euthanasia, and moving forward with assisted suicide, because we've already taken important steps in palliative care, and we have a magnificent system of PADES that the problem you have is that you can't be there for twenty-four hours working or reaching all territories with the quality and availability that the same system of PADES would surely want to give them. But I think it's worth repeating this thank you because you're doing your job, which you've been doing for almost 20 years, and you're giving us solidarity, humanity, civilization at a time that's important to all people, at the most difficult time. And help us to do and refer..., unfortunately I don't remember many times steps from before, from the beginnings, like those that had been raised recently in Congress in Madrid and that didn't prosper, but I think that the proposal of Unitos We can, magnificently defended with passing, with genuine indignation and with esteem and affection for the sick people, for Marta Sibina, among others, deserved a better result. From now on the texts remain, the feeling remains, and here I would like to add a couple of questions that I think are important. The first is that we really want to die well, we want a good death; this is euthanasia. Euthanasia means, as you know perfectly well, "good death. But above all, what we want to demand is the right not to be forced to die badly. That is to say, as we can achieve that most people, in the situation they arrive, come to this good death for this increase, for this rise in the degree of civilization of our society. And I think that it is possible to put up a few added doses of secularism to the penal code, of dignity, of taking autonomy – this autonomy that we are so claiming –, to bring it to the person, which is, in short, the first and fundamental unit of society, and moving forward with affection, with dignity, what is this extension of the good death that we desire for everyone. No one wants to die ill, but few people... – few people – and we in this sense are privileged, we can do something, we can legislate to get the good death to come to the vast majority of people, and take pain and take anguish. I would like, in this sense, to use the words of a friend of mine who works, has worked many years with sick people, with friends, sick people and friends who have killed themselves in a cruel way, that I will explain to them - there, and that he himself, for the same pains and for the same lack of feeling of his life, has planned how to abandon this world - to abandon this world. And in a moment of desperation and pain, he found himself with what he said in a B plate, and was particularly pleased to have given..., found his hand, could have grasped the understanding and solidarity of the DMD organization. And, then, he explained that at a time when the anguish believed him, the most anguished was not being able to talk about him openly, what he was going through, what he felt, what he needed. And that finding in the DMD people who were listening to him and that the whole thing was a very big relief. And I give them thanks for all the work they do, that they don't do it for people, that they do it for society, that they do it for the enrichment of politics, because they helped get'sbona part of the anguish. And then he realized that with people as you could resist as you turned around and could resist, because if you got to the point where you couldn't and didn't want more, there would be a sorting option that starts to be defined and that we, the members of Parliament of Catalonia and the members of Parliament of the Congress, can get to define better. And with this peace of mind to find solidarity, to find who I understand, to find who is with you, and with more conviction than ever before, he began to set himself up even better than good death implies. And not just for him, but for, in general, the whole society. And he felt that if a person up to the point of no more power, it is not just that after all folded he is still forced to leave this world without being able to say goodbye in an open and serene way, and he must go away alone, with negligent and guilt, for him and for the people he leaves, and that he is forced to die in such a way or even harder than the suffering of a life with pain and suffering. And if an unworthy death has occurred, it is not the end that falls to a worthy life. Therefore, he considered that seeking to guarantee a painless death in all cases was a subject that, in our society, had to age and arise. Because a person, when his or her living conditions no longer prove to be bearable or worthy, if ever up to the point of not being able or unwilling to follow, up to the point where all the body, the will, say enough..., can have an assisted, accompanied, shared end, of the hand of a doctor who does not have to suffer by criminal code, of the hand of a friend person who does not have to suffer because the blame falls on him or can go to prison. And this friend of mine asked, "Wouldn't that be the most compassion, the most civilization, the most humanity? And he asked: "Do we not have a right? And I think that, to these questions, we, all folds, all folds have the obligation and the duty, and the right as well, to give them an answer. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.184.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Martinez. Next comes the word Gabriela Serra, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.185.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs–thanks–, partners and partners of the Right to Dying Dignity Association, have already made so many praises that I will only tell you that thank you for working constantly, vehemently and confidently, and convincing us and seducing us to continue fighting for rights as the right to die dignity. That's a big thank you we have to do. And thanking Isabel Alonso, who reminded the Health Committee of June 23rd last that Salvador Pàniker had already done 97 years ago, precisely when he appeared in the same committee. Remember those words of Salvador Pàniker: "We have defended precisely this, the idea that the right to die worthily is a right and a human right. It's a right of self-determination, and speaking of self-determination, we can hardly defend collective self-determinations if we don't defend personal self-determination before we defend it, as it is that each person is in love with his or her own destiny, his or her own, his or her own life, and his or her own death. Despite these wise positions, we had to wait until June 2015 because at the presentation of the motto of the Charter of Rights and Rights of the citizenry in relation to health and health care, approved by the Health Department, in the chapter "Autonomy and decision making, specified at the point of the "Right to live the final process of life the following: "The person has the right to live the process that has become until the end of life according to his conception of dignity. The person has the right to reject any treatment, despite this vital support and is already established whenever it is a competent and well informed decision. In this context, the person has the right to receive a quality care that promotes the relief of the suffering, whether physical, psychological, social or spiritual, provided with the right surroundings and meet the person's preferences. And now the fort sees: "When situations of unbearable patience are given, and the person, with full possession of his or her powers to decide, expresses his or her desire to die and asks for help to do so, has the right to a respectful treatment and that he or she is given an answer proportionate to the intensity of this suffering – etcetera – "always within the legal framework in force. On the one hand, it is obvious that if from Catalonia, no one would find an obstacle to exercising their right to a dignified death. Now, despite this assertion, article 143.4 of the Criminal Code is precisely this valid legal framework that prevents Catalonia from being facilitated by a dignified and patient death, as well as the rest of the State, even if it is in situations of unbearable suffering. At the Congress of Deputies, at the Congress of Deputies, there are those who want to talk about palliative cures, and they want to talk about palliative cures opposing euthanasia. That it is clear that we are fully committed to enhancing palliative care, but to those who defend that with good palliative care there will no longer be those who ask euthanasia to tell them that this is a fallacy. The voluntary death that we are talking about has to do with the values of the person, with his or her way of living life; it is an expression of freedom to decide when to die, to decide when life that is living does not deserve to be lived. And he said, we are talking about Ramon Sampedro, he did not want palliative cures; José Antonio Arrabal, forced to die clandestinely, did not want palliative measures. And it wouldn't get any better... even taking into account the law of death worthy that Ciutadans is arguing at this point in Congress. We're also talking about Rachel, who gave us a few days ago to the Diari Now that "there's no way, no way, there's a point that I don't want to go over, and I was calling for the legalization of euthanasia to put life on the line when she thinks these limits are being crossed. Because yes, because euthanasia is an individual decision – and it has to be an individual decision –, very minority, certainly; only a 3_per_cent there where it is recognized, like Belgium or Holland. In Catalonia, according to data, we talk about a 2_percent of patients who ask to anticipate their death beyond what the law allows them. At our house, there are approximately 60,000 deaths per year and, if we apply the percentage, it means that it is denying itself and violating individual dignity and freedom to some 1,200 people annually, so as not to give them the opportunity to leave freely. For another gang, we should avoid falling into the false console of hypocrisy and double morality. Euthanasia, the voluntary finalization of life, is today a reality that is practiced in hiding, as is the practice of abortions before the Law of voluntary interruption of pregnancy, a practice that, still said, in hiding or illegality, is realized in some or other conditions and guarantees according to the socioeconomic level to which it belongs. There are groups who ask to postpone the decision to open a more quiet debate. To those who may remember that the debate has already opened Ramon Sampedro twenty-three years ago, that he has been debated fourteen times in the Congress and the Senate, five times in the Parliament of Catalonia, and that, as has already been said, the opinion and maturity of society go ahead of us. And, to be sure, he could have a certain argument on the hanging stick, when there were no assessed experiences in other countries. He's not eligible today. We have clear studies carried out in Holland, Belgium, and so many others. And yes, it's certainly a delicate subject, and as long as it is. That is why it is a law of self-determination that defends vulnerable people and guarantees autonomy and personal dignity. This is what the Dutch Law of 2001, the Report on Euthanasia and Helping Suicide of the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia of 2006, and also the Law presented by Podemos, In Comú Podemos and En Marea, which has not even been admitted to the Congress. You know very well that we do not usually go to Madrid to ask questions, nor to the Congress of Deputies. Now, we understand and share that the processing of the demand that has brought us the Right Association to Morir Dignament - Catalonia can benefit not only our people but also the rest of the people of the Spanish State. Therefore, we will give support to this proposal to arrive at the Congress and return to open the fruitful debate of euthanasia throughout the State. While, in Catalonia, and speaking of self-determination as we remember in Salvador Paniker, it will take time to begin working on the development of a law for how long? Thanks to the Catalan Republic, the result of a self-determination referendum, if we are free of the scourge and the constant threat of the Penal Code, to obtain a law that recognizes the right to dignified death, facilitating and helping to a voluntary and conditional transposition. Finally, let me remind you of a wish expressed by our friend Xirinacs: "You will not spend years without allowing yourself to plan your own death, just as today parents and mothers plan to come to the life of their children. That's the way it is. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.186.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. Next is the word of Mrs. Alba Vergés, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.187.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, everyone and everyone. Well, present an initiative signed by four parliamentary groups and that there are three groups, three companies, that have presented the reason why we are here today in this debate in Parliament, so you are proud to be sharing with other political spaces the same idea and the same proposal, but leave a little with your papers that you wrote, so come out here with the desire not to be a cry and not to be repetitive. And so, I will express some ideas that have already been said, because I share with the three companies many of the exhibitions that they have made, but we also want to leave, from the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, to put it into effect. First of all, it is to greet, to give thanks to the Right Association to Die Dignity for the work they have done many years ago, not only in the area of euthanasia and assisted suicide, but in all the areas they have to see with a worthy death. They spend a lot of time explaining, talking and putting on the table all those aspects of what makes us talk, which is death. And I'm giving them thanks because we're here today because we're so grateful to all of you. The social support there is in this aspect during the past few years is not only important but it has a growing trend. Now we're talking about 78_per_cent figures; some of these give the highest, and we, as an institution, as members and deputies, and as people who are here representing Catalonian citizenship, have the obligation to listen to this support and this popular cry for something that is like a right, which is the right to die worthily. And this is an obligation that we take very seriously and that is why we thank you for having this debate today. This initiative is shared, the debate in which society has repeatedly spoken is increasing its support, every time more in favour of regulation, which does not mean simply having nothing to do with the legal framework that speaks of dignified death or that speaks of conditions, but of a regulation of a practice that no one would want to ask, no one would wish to demand a right such as euthanasia or assisted suicide. I also recommend the report on euthanasia and aid to suicide prepared for the Committee on Bioethics of Catalonia, in which he does a very thorough and rigorous drainage and work on the conditions under which he should be able to allow, and recommends decriminalization because there are conditions to allow euthanasia and assisted suicide, certainly taking into account conditions and criteria. Therefore, this does not mean, in any case, not to have a regulation on this practice under the legal order. In fact, social demand is due to the fact that there are people who do not see their autonomy protected in the current legal framework. Not that they don't want there to be any legal mark on this aspect, but that they want a legal mark that can protect them. Let us remember when they find themselves, in addition, before a situation that is not precisely desired, but which leads them to express the will to put themselves in a position to suffer when they give concrete situations that is their perception of not being living life with dignity. Therefore, in the debate on regulation, the strict conditions of procedure for authorised practices should be determined, in relation to the forms of expression of the patient's will; the assessment and objectivity of the situation of the disease; the forms of intervention in the decision-making process and the requirements to be taken into account; the documentation of each concrete case, and the proper control. I make it clear that we are not getting out of the legislation, but on the contrary, we want to say that it is coming out of the penal sphere; that a practice that will need to be regulated is clearly coming out of the criminal sphere. To complete it it will be necessary to open a deep debate, which does not escape from the legitimate controversy, where it is possible to introduce all the medical, clinical, ethical and right aspects to seek a consensus as difficult as necessary because society is asking us for it. The different points of view and ideological sensitivities must be listened to and respected in order to move forward politically and legally, in the sense that society is already mature. And this is a duty of this Parliament, and it's a duty of the people who represent the citizenry, to answer the calls of the people. Let us remember, however, not to confuse the debates. One thing is that the law does not prevent, or, better to say, it does not criminally carry an action, which will have to be regulated, and the other thing is to complement with what we have already, in our country, and we have said before, we have been captivating, for what it does to palliative care and for what it does to respect health care at the end of life. It's one thing that we pride ourselves on as Catalans and Catalans, but the other thing is to complete with what... with the work we've already done, which brings back the patients' Charter of Rights and Rights for what it does to these cures and care at the end of life. And yes, this letter of rights and dues of patients in its point 5.1.8..., I allow me to read the part that deals with the subject in text, and that I believe that some other Member has read it, that "when they give situations of unbearable patience and the person in full possession of their powers to express their desire to die and ask for help to do so, has the right to a respectful treatment and to be given an answer provided to the intensity of this suffering, and adds: "The person also has the right to health professionals to facilitate the treatments and treatments necessary to facilitate a dignified and uncompromising death always within the existing legal framework. It seems to me that Gabriela Serra said this: "within the legal framework in force. We don't have a problem with conception, we have a problem with the current current brand. And today we're taking an important step. And we don't want to confuse the debates with everything that refers to ensuring dignity and autonomy in the decision-making press with respect to the attention process, respect the fact that you give all the necessary information and put it all to the fore because people also have the right to express their will in the form of early decisions. And that's why we've had different parliamentary initiatives in which there's also a great deal of consensus in which you say you need to promote the early will document so you can talk about death in a much healthier way and not when you find yourself at the door. For this reason it is relevant to work to complete all this but it is not relevant to confuse the debates. And it is not relevant, and it is also a mistake, to make it an excuse not to make a political proposal that advances in a regulation that protects people who may find themselves in a vulnerable situation as well as to advance for this respect for autonomy and personal decisions. This I think is the ultimate meaning and purpose of what we're starting today, even if it's not the object of the text that is just the modification of an article in the Criminal Code. Having an established regulation that puts conditions under which it could allow and demand medically assisted euthanasia and suicide. With a clear definition of the concepts, this is very important, the characteristics that the patients must have, the requirements to be fulfilled by the health system, by the health personnel in the decision-making and action-making process, and, above all, by what it does to supervision and control, the composition and tasks of which it also has responsibility for this supervision. We have an advantage of having gone slow and lacking political courage in the country, which is that other countries have already started regulatory experiences in which we can look at them, like the United States, some states, Switzerland, Holland, Belgium, Luxembourg, Quebec. It is the only advantage that I find it to have been slow to respond to the company's demand. And today we begin this initiative with the support of four groups that will come into play and that already announce that, from the Group of Joints for the Yes, we will ask for the appearances of different people who can bring us from many visions, many sensitivities, in that it insisted that it should derive from this law that it is a profound debate on euthanasia and assisted suicide. And, of course, we will appreciate all the points that can be made by the different parliamentary groups in the debate. It is a debate that we have heard a lot in the media with proper names, Ramon Sampedro was the first, or the first that I remember for my age, but there are many anonymous people, as there are also many people who freely choose not to wish for euthanasia and assisted suicide. Therefore, perhaps it is a small number of people but it is a small number of people to whom we must also respond to their dignity and their will to die when they decide that they are not living with dignity. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.188.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. In order to defend the totality, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, Mrs. Marisa Xandri has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.189.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, I also want to greet, first of all, the representatives of the Right Association to Morir Dignament, who today accompany us to the rostrum and with whom we have also had the occasion to exchange views and constructively points of view at the length of these later months. I know you won't applaud me, I know, but about everything you're doing, because you think it's the best for this company. And, therefore, from here all my respect. Ladies and gentlemen, the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party is today presenting a statement to the whole of this proposal to decriminalise euthanasia. We did so because we have the conviction that decriminalization would be clearly detrimental to the common social good in general and to medical practice in particular. We want to take advantage of this Ple to set out our arguments, and we want to do so with respect for what they stand against. In these debates it is common for one or the other to accuse one another of twisted intentions. I am convinced that everyone here defends what you sincerely believe is better for society and, in this sense, we cannot accept this proposition of the law. Ras and short, what we defend is that we can eliminate pain, not eliminate the person who suffers pain. What we maintain is that we must better accompany people on the end of their lives, not end their lives. What we say is that we must put medicine at the service of life, not at the service of the empire of death. It's easier to give a passport to the other life, it's easier, but it's also more humane and more civilized and more liberating to put the pain, the loneliness, the depression that big people or sick people can experience. We sincerely believe that in this sense there is a wide scope for agreement. At the head and at the end we have much more points of synchrony than divergences. He was pale in this very same plenary a few months ago, when we discussed a motion from Catalonia Yes, it's Pot on dignified death. Because, we have to say clearly, we all want a worthy death, all of us. But what does that mean? For us a worthy death means a transfer with the least possible pain, in a climate of dignity and intimacy. It means the possibility of being surrounded and accompanied by loved ones. A worthy death means a conveniently informed transfer, where the patient's wishes are respected with the medical, psychological and spiritual care desired. We can all agree on this, but that's not exactly what you're talking about. Because this legal project only has a point, which is to modify the Criminal Code with the aim of decriminalizing assisted suicide. Says in another way, the legalization of a medical homicide. Also the motion that was presented a few months ago turned to the principle exclusively on the decriminalization of assisted suicide. But then the young man got rich, he introduced many other variables, and in the end we agreed on a text that was approved in many of his points for unanimity, because we all want to improve the social and medical conditions of death. To improve the conditions of death, the first thing we have to do is know this reality well, look at it face to face. It is curious that such a universal and indefatigable fact is absent from the political debate. Maybe it's that the dead don't vote and the lives don't want to think about it or talk about it. From the education system we have experience, primary care we live many times in the first person, but death, those who die, are always the others, until we are, and then we can no longer explain our experience. That's why in that past generation's motion we agreed that the Generalitat created this very year an observer of death in Catalonia, precisely to be able to talk about it. We need to know how many people die alone in Catalonia, how many people die in massive rooms in hospitals, how many people die connected, how many people have been able to make advance volunteer documents. And of all these commitments, what happened today? Did he get in the way? Or are we only interested in the topic for actual debates in the chamber? Has the government done anything? The motion we approved on this chamber was centered on these measures. We're going to approve all of you to enhance the advance volunteer document, give it to meet through effective media, both between the medical community and between the citizenry. This is the path, we think this is the path. Death is not just a natural fate, something that comes to us or happens to us. Death is part of personal life and as such we must be able to humanize it, guide it, lead it. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, all groups in the chamber want conditions worthy of death, and that is why we unanimously approved giving a strong boost to palliative care. Today there are mechanisms to greatly mitigate the pain, because the transition is not a agony and a torture of pain. We are aware – we are aware – that we have the ethical and scientific right to minimize all the pain. That is why I refer again to that motion: we unanimously approved a series of measures in this same chamber to strengthen the knowledge and practice of palliative care in our public health system. What has the government done since then, since its approval? But, ladies and gentlemen, of all this, of all these measures, in this proposal it is not mentioned in absolute terms. Look, the text that we will vote on and that will be approved directly calls for decriminalization of euthanasia. You, proposing groups, with this proposal we believe that you take a dangerous right; we decriminalize and then debate. And in the face of a question that directly affects human dignity, we think that this must be done backwards; first we have to debate it and then, if ever, we will take the steps that we need. There's no debate here. For example, at the moment it speaks of the hypocritical oath; it is essential to speak of this question. So that doesn't come out anywhere. Let me tell you, the law you present, the different groups, it's a very flowing law, it's a mandrous law, done in ideological laboratories and not in hospital plants. Because if you want to make a law for a good death, you have a much larger, much more complete law. Or is it that with assisted suicide we guarantee good death to everyone? The theme is worth a little more work, a little more rigor. Let's start to evaluate – evaluate – the nucleus of the question that is'splanted, assisted suicide. And we clarify what is here because, in reality, we're not talking about the autonomy of the subject, we're not talking about a person deciding to put his life away. What you propose is that, under certain conditions, murder is decriminalized. What it is all about is that the health system and its professionals can become, if necessary, providers of death; death as a health care provider. I'm sorry, that's it, that's what he's proposing here. This, for us, ladies and gentlemen, is a clear mistake with heavy repercussions. And it is, in the first place, for the same medical practice and for the functioning of the entire health system. The medical relationship is based on the patient's confidence that the doctor will work to guarantee life, but if we give the doctors the keys to death, the whole system is distorted because trust and the foundational premise are eroded. We want a medicine to serve life, not a medicine delivered to the culture of death. The normalization of assisted suicide, which is what we are talking about here, can exert subtle pressure on large and vulnerable people, a microviolence that structurally may tend to question the value of some vital situations and invites us to leave out in a hasty way. When it comes to euthanasia, many times it speaks of unworthy voids, it has been done on various occasions at the length of this debate. And I ask myself, ladies and gentlemen, what does that mean? Where's the indignity? On the subject you're kicking? I understand you don't. When you speak of an unworthy life, you refer to the conditions of that life. But, then, why do we focus on ending the person's life and not ending the conditions that make that life painful and distressing? Certainly, there are people who express their vital – vital – exhaustion in their desire to die. I think we should leave extreme cases for a while, huh? But surely it is true that there are people who want to give up life. And this is a very powerful symptom and a clear complaint of the discomforts of our society: loneliness, indifference, poverty. But what we can't do is narrow down the symptom without addressing the causes. We have to go one step further, because if there's a strong argument in the proeuthanistic speech, it's the autonomy of the will. Who is the Administration to decide when a person should die? Why can't you decide the subject? Why can't he arrange how he wants and when he wants his life? Look, this is a powerful argument, but I remember in the first place what I said before: here we are not talking so much about what one person does with his life, but about how he wants and can involve others in his suicide, whether the homicide has consented to become a social benefit or not. We are talking about the social implications of self-reliance. Certainly, the autonomy of will is a nuclear value of our social and political model, so I can't stop anyone from taking life. But following a principle does not mean that it is the only criterion at the time of legislation. And you must hear it very well: according to the principle of autonomy of the will, a person should have full and complete freedom of his money, but this is not so, he must pay taxes. According to the principle of individual freedom, one should be able to sort out the school or the medical center you wanted, but that's not it. According to the principle of autonomy of the will, one should be able to smoke where and when I liked it, but this is not so because there is legislation that is certainly quite restrictive. It is clear that the autonomy of volunteering is fundamental, but it is not the only value to take into account. In the cases I have explained there are other principles that condition it: social justice, educational equity or public salvation. So, in the case we're dealing with today, we think the autonomy of volunteering is not the only criterion. Because we legislators must also guarantee other common benefits, such as the protection of life or trust in the health system. Finally, someone of you may object that I exaggerate, that you only propose decriminalization in very clear cases, with the condition of full consciousness and willfulness, in irreversible and striking cases. And I have to tell you – I have to tell you –, with the color of my hand, that I understand your concern and your arguments, but that experience shows, so I believe, at least, that this first decriminalization is just the first step in a long way. The concept is not mine, it's well known. It's happened in different countries, the dynamics are always seeming. In the first place, a law is proposed that allows assisted suicide with three very strict conditions: full voluntariety, terminal malalty, unbearable pains. At the end of the day, however, a step is given and appropriate changes are introduced to allow non-voluntary, involuntary euthanasia: coma patients, misformed infants, dementia warnings or people with psychiatric disorders. But there are still two squids: the third, which is opening the door to euthanasia for incurable diseases, but not terminal, or for people who are not in an irreversible situation. The late England passes to allow assisted suicide for people who have psychological patience or are tired of living. I don't exaggerate. Look, that's what happened to Holland. The Dutch Government has already proposed to allow large people who believe that they have already completed their life cycle, even though they are not in a situation of severe illness. I'm done. I'm done with examples, aren't I? He was talking about this Holland, and apart from Holland and Belgium, I also want to say, therefore, that more than half of the doctors have rejected a petition for assisted suicides. What do I mean by that? That, as the bioethic Étienne Montero said, the one who is present as a right ended up converting into an obligation. And I think this is a danger to our society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.190.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, for the turn against, has the word Ms. Alba Vergés.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.191.0	Thank you, President. Very briefly, because I only have two minutes. You have begun your intervention by giving or expressing your utmost respect for the purpose of the law, for the people who were fighting in the Right Association to Die Dignity, and calling upon the common good, which was harmful to the common good and medical practice, and to defend the best for society. We, I would say, try to defend the best for people; the people we obviously integrate into a society. And society cannot turn the scales to certain people who also want to respect their will and their perception of the dignity of their own lives. You talk about life, and we talk about worthy life. You say: "Death worthy, yes, and equip it to reduce pain. And we will equip you to respect the decisions, and to respect the autonomy of these people. And I know it's hard to say it there, but I don't find it very respectful to use expressions like medicine in the service of life and not in the service of the empire of death, as if we were talking about Star Wars; how to equate euthanasia and suicide assisted by a ‘medical homicide' – I don't think there's any of the health system you're thinking about in those terms – as to talk about people living in massive dwellings. To block it in this debate, and I said before, that the debate bar is very dangerous, and that we believe that this is a mistake. Let us die, as you say. And living conditions? And do we condition them to respect the will of the people? It's not about the measurements. You said it was approved, precisely, for which you commented. I say, "It's not the same argument, it's not an excuse, please. Other expressions such as – excuse me, President, I will not enlarge, really – « handing over to the doctors the keys to death are truly unfortunate. "Death as a health care provider, too. And we only come here to have the Parliament of Catalonia respond to a majority of the society that says we want to respect the will of people when they are precisely in a very vulnerable situation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.192.0	Thank you, Mrs Vergés. I remind the public they can't applaud. [[Rialles and remorse of the eyes.]] To fix his position, Mr. Jorge Soler, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.193.0	Well, good afternoon. Thank you very much, Madam President. Deputies, deputies and people who accompany us from back there. I would like today to have heard and made a health debate; but, well, today, as you have seen, no health debate, no ethical debate, no compassion. Today we have a political debate, strictly political. And to argue this, I'll tell you about the timeline of this debate. Ciutadans on 16 December presents to Madrid, to Congress, the Proposition of law of rights and guarantees of the dignity of the person before the final process of his life. A few days later, concretely the following week, a dime, 25 genera, this Member, two-quarters of three, roughly, I reproduce a call from a company of this chamber that he invited to join in this petition that some of you have signed today. I had known her in a previous version, you agreed to her and, as a matter of urgency, asked me, before entering the register, that I signed her. And I said to him, "Look, I will not sign this for various reasons. The first is because my group does not signify important questions, so without reading them, meditating on them, participating in their elaboration. But basically we won't do it because what this law or this proposal is talking about, urging Madrid to do, so, it doesn't really feel like it for a group like Ciutadans, which has already introduced a law and I want it to be short, and that right now I don't know the times of Congress, but I want our law to be debated soon. I was preparing the intervention that I would make the next day – that day I did make an intervention that I think of health policy – to talk about Moció 91/XI, which presented to us the Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot : a complex, conciliatory, agreed motion. The following week... The following week Podemos registers at the Congress his proposal of law on euthanasia; 17 of February: the Socialist Party does so, also on the rights of the person before the final process of life, etcetera, and, finally, March 21 – March 21, 2017 – is producing the first debate on the subject in Madrid, debate of the law of euthanasia that proposed the party of Podemos. Today, April 26, I say, one_me after this debate has already taken place in Madrid, today we have the debate of this proposal. What do you say? To urge Madrid to have the debate on this proposal; the proposal, which is fait accompli, which is voted on, as I will now explain to you, and which, moreover, some of you have contradictions that seem strange to us, as little. In the first place, because this debate, so, I insist, is already done. I don't know if they've disconnected so much from Madrid that you don't know that this debate you're trying to do is already done. But, moreover, if you have read, that I suppose you must have done so, all the speeches of all the groups with this law and the following that I will now comment on, that is that of Ciutadans, will notice great differences in the speeches that the Members here argue, in all, in the form, in the background, of which their groups have actually defended in Madrid. But there's still differences, like a few, let's just hide, nice, huh? , as, for example, when Podemos presents a proposal to talk about euthanasia – that you then tell associations that it is so important for your groups, and that you, not concerned, will vigorously defend ahead of these groups that you want to go to Madrid to do – when this happens, and happens, and you say it, from the hand of Podemos, we do not deny – to Caesar what is Caesar's – curiously I read it, I also have by habit, the voting patterns, and when I arrive at the vote of the Group Mixt, of Convergence, Guaita, abstained. That is to say, a part of this chamber that today asks us to make a debate in Madrid to decriminalize one thing, when this debate that we are voting today has already taken place, you are voting abstention. I mean, I don't know if they've explained it so much back there, but it's clear that there's a few contradictions. But it's that, besides, there are two very important people in your group who don't vote that day – surely, important reasons – with a law like this. To continue the contradictions, it is hard to say, but I continue to analyze the pattern of voting, and the Socialist Party, which has explained to us today what it has explained to us, and that I read more in detail and here I have more sub-ratted your statements in Madrid, there he also abstained, but here he signs this proposal. Okay. Finally, March 28, explain the contradictions I will explain to you why we did not sign this proposal. And as I told you, we go to Madrid and we go to Madrid, and therefore to Madrid we presented our law, which we defended on March 28. I, surprise, this law – this law – did come out, voted favorably. All the groups, the whole chamber of the Congress of Deputies has given support to this law of the end of life presented by Ciutadans. All groups... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He forgave... – he forgave, he forgave. Did I say all the groups? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, not all groups. Excuse me. Republican Left and the Mixed Group abstain. So, one question: clear, if they haven't followed – the transcripts have them and they're also charged – what is it that Citizens presented to Congress, so I explain to them... What are you abstaining from? To guarantee palliative care with effective territorial equality? They're abstaining. Fantastic! Clearly, is it because they can guarantee that territorial equality in palliative care in Catalonia is perfect? Is that what this is about? No, no, The right to accompany. The right not to die in a passadish. You're abstaining from this. Is it because you haven't seen that people are still dead in the past? Right to a single room. Is it possible for them to refrain from this? Can Catalonia refrain from this? I don't think so. Look, if you want to have a health debate, so... – I think you know me well enough to know that a few things would please me more – but, of course, I would like to review, to begin with, some of your statements about the state of the issue. And in these three laws, that of Podemos, Ciutadans and the Socialist Party is that they would explain to you the difference of concepts that some here, perhaps by mistake and by precipitation, have barred. You're talking about relieving symptoms. Obviously, of course, that's what Ciutadans's law is also talking about. Now, let me open my mind: they talk a lot about the pain, and I know that the Pain Clinic can see it right now with pal·liatius. But now my question is – and I did it the other day to the Health Committee –: when do patients expect Catalonia to be visited at the pain clinics, at each hospital? So, look, since I don't know, I asked for it in writing. So it goes, and if you want to see it, I've got it here, too. Six months ago I asked. Do you know how long the Catalan citizens are waiting to be treated? So, no. And the one who signed the questions, in this case me, neither. And as I'm interested to know how long they're waiting, last week at the parade for the waiting lists, so I asked. I say, well, maybe I don't get caught up in the way of Parliament, to ask, I've been waiting for six months. There are six months of waiting to answer Citizens and citizens, who I think may have an interest in knowing how to relieve and how long their pain. So, I asked the counselor. And do you know what he answered me at this time? Do you know how long it is to wait for the pain clinic in Catalonia? Do you know that? So, no, because he didn't answer us either. So, they want to talk about the health care system, they want to talk about what it's alluding to, so, when a terminally ill person vomits, for example? We could talk about it. And I agree, they're not all palliative cures. I totally agree. You said it very well, Congresswoman. And some asked: "Where is indignity? So, look, I, if I want to, I can explain some. Indignity is seeing an offended patient die. That's indignant. Indignity is also entering a patient's home and feeling that smell so characteristic, women's deputies and women's deputies, that it ‘rebuffs the bowl. And you know why, don't you? , deputies the deputies. Because there are people who don't have the resources to clean up their godfathers. That's indignant, and that's not what we're talking about here. And you know I'd be happy to do it. I'd like to talk about why there's cash in the patients dying. I guess they know who they are; they're drills, huh? , from sometimes huge holes to the area of the sacred, to the zone of the pous. But, well, let's not talk about the indignity of that I suppose in this debate. Members, Members, President, when they want to hold a health debate they already know that Ciutadans will always be available to them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.194.0	Thank you, Mr. Soler. The debate is over, we'll proceed to the vote. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall now proceed to the vote on the whole issue. The vote begins. The total was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 94 against and 24 abstentions. As long as it has been rejected, this initiative continues its processing. [[Strong applause and perlongats. Pause.]] The audience, you know they can't clap? [[Rialles.]] [[Question to the Government on the precariousness of work and the reconciliation of health professionals]] [[300-00156/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the precarious work and reconciliation of health professionals presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please – please – already know that they always ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we have to continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.195.0	Thank you, President. Today we present this question about job insecurity and conciliation. Always, when it comes to presuppositional detail in the field of salvation, it is a matter of whether one can appreciate its impact on the quality of the attention given to the people. If we do not enter into what is accessibility or in investments, and look only at the data of the Observatory of the Health System of Catalonia, we see that the main indicators of care quality are kept stable; also the general satisfaction of the users is kept stable. This behaviour means that the healthcare system has made an unusual effort to keep an eye on the patients and that, therefore, most of the tensions have fallen on the professionals, who have suffered without transferring them to attendance. This is not to be understood as the lack of media and pressure on workers has not affected the quality of care, but that the large-scale indicators of the hospital centres cannot reflect the problems that the staff find in the day-to-day of their activity; because the detail, if anyone has subscribed, has been in the workers and professionals of salvation. They have done so with the reduction of wages, since the professionals and the professionals of salvation have seen their amount reduced between an 11 and a 20_per_cent. They have also done so with the loss of jobs; between 2011 and 2015, they lost to the ICS, only to the ICS – and I'm talking about the ICS – 2,400 jobs. And if we're talking about primary care, it's about the fact that we only lost about a thousand faculty in college. Download and lose jobs that have not been covered and that have made the rest of the professionals have had to take this job. Here we have spoken, not too much, of the manifesto, of the revolt of the primary; there it is said very clearly: they can no longer. Today, there is another manifesto of companies also linked to the primary attention, one being warned that, if it continues like this, the assistance, which until now with its effort has protected itself, will become felt. If no new seats are called, the projected retirement volume is very high. Until 2020– and only talking about medical professionals–, the ICS has 490. And the other day the president of the College of Metges commented that the next decade is retirement one-third of the current medical profession. We can't talk..., we can't say again that we have a system of excellence, if what this system does is abuse its workers and workers. It is not possible to build an efficient system, if it is at the cost of keeping the most poorly paid professionals. That's why we've claimed it and we've claimed it – we've made assumptions too – presuppositional sufficiency. We cannot go with a per capita expenditure of EUR 1,186 per inhabitant, when diagnostic and therapeutic processes have taken place, when the population has changed – we have much more chronicity – and when inequalities in health have increased. And they're not worth it, counselor, these announcements you always make. From time to time we talk about something else and you make an announcement to say that we will increase the greeting assumption by 1,000_million. Because you know that these 1,000_millions are the deficit that I've already predicted, because it's the 2015 deficit and it's also going to close 2016 and it's generated with the ordinary activity; therefore, it's not for the most extraordinary activity. Because we have always said that if there was more pressure, a real pressure would have to be made available to those in need of assistance, which we have seen is now being extended. It is clear that staff cuts have reduced care time, increased waiting lists, and generated workloads that are often harder for staff and professionals to take on. For another band we have that one_of_every_four young expert doctors, 24_per_cent, is found unworkable, after two years of training– dates from 2016–; 2006 was the 11_per_cent. Look, I've looked at the ICS data, and then I'll talk about what you presented yesterday, the Stability Guarantee Board. Data from the ICS, which I have been able to hold, until 2016– I believe yesterday that they are being held more a day–, they speak of 31,286 persons or statutory staff; of these, almost 10,000 are in-house; of these, 5,384 nursing professionals are in-house. Half of the interns – half – correspond to the infirmary; 962 faculty, and the rest, other health personnel. And I'm getting it back because it's clear in these statistics that each and every one of you is women. We gave it the other day: precariousness is generative, and it's clear. You've announced a government agreement where Salut will have 2,400 seats, regularization seats, no new seats, huh? , only to approach the tip of the iceberg of the interinatges. If I continue to look at the data that you have on CatSalut, I am looking at a distance that sets « Reinforcement, that are not substitutes or reinforcements, but that in reality they are temporary, that you have determined as « false eventuals, that they reach 6,214 throughout the public sector and that many of these places in reality are structural, they are neither places of reinforcement nor places of substitution : they are structural places that are covered with false eventuals and, therefore, with temporary contracts. Temporarily how much? So, look, there's everything; it's true that we're getting better at something, but 70 percent of these contracts have a duration of less than six months. And where's the more temporality, is that to say, the more precarious? Because when we talk about temporality, we're talking about precariousness, we're talking about a few hours, bad contracts, and, besides, contracts that have been tied up with each other, until they reach a good number of years. And where has there been more temporality, better said, precariousness? So, among professionals – women – younger than forty-five years and working in primary school, that's where we've seen and seen more discomfort, more care and more drawing. And that's the situation. To think that continuing until now will not affect attendance is a fallacy. And he said that yesterday – and it's a great chance of life; these things happen with this counselor – he presented, together with entities, trade unions and professional colleges – and now he takes the opportunity to greet trade unions and professional colleges, as well as Metges de Catalunya and other unions that accompany us here today, from the Metges College – the Platform for Guaranteeing Labour Stability. Look, I'm telling you with all honesty: please welcome the plan, as is the State Agreement for the better of public occupation. I'm going to enjoy looking at me 'quietly, look at me 'also discuss it with all the professionals, with all these unions and associations that they also accompanied; but it's true that it doesn't bring any solutions. What the plan is doing – and it's laudable, huh? , that's what you're doing–, that's what you're doing... Don't, counselor, don't look at me with that face. You don't see him, but I do, and he looks amazing. No, man, what he does is change the type of contract, move from intermission to fixed, or move from false to intermission. But we're not addressing determining which is the structure we'd need to staff, among other things, the ICS, which is the... It's not structurally addressing the... And I only stay a minute, and I want to enjoy... And then we'll go on, and we'll be back, and I'm convinced that the counselor's intervention will clear up some of the things I said. But I would like to talk about conciliation, because if there is anything that is intimately related to conciliation or lack of reconciliation, it is precariousness, temporality, workloads that at this time are giving and that make it every time harder for the younger professionals, above all, to reconcile their professional life with their personal life. Also in this sense there is a report on how we can improve. Look, what I've been worried about is the little that we do in the Employment Stability Guarantee Plan for conciliation, apart from just talking about work and family conciliation, and I want to remind you that we have to do conciliation with staff, not family; but I understand that it's a mistake that will be corrected. In any case, two years to make a conciliation plan seems to me to be an extreme hair, we would say, donated, at this time, the situation in which they are living and the professionals, especially in the public sector. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.196.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Escarp. Then there's the word the counselor, Mr. Antoni Comín.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.197.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. MPs, MPs..., Mrs Escarp, I thank you for this inquiry and I try to explain concrete things, because what we want are not resolutions, but what we want are solutions, and the solutions are concrete. To solve the problems it is important to deal with each of them specifically, to deal with all of them, but to deal with them separately, because, even if there is a relationship between them, if we want to fix them all together and sweep everything away, in the end we will not solve the problem. Therefore, this plan, as explained in its title, which is sufficiently described in this sense, is a plan to fight against precariousness, which I mean to guarantee stability. Therefore, we are in the area of contracting methods. And, therefore, this plan does not even improve wages, which is something that needs to be done but that has some other lives, and therefore there is no solution here in relation to the salary capacity of the professionals, nor does it go from the endowment of the seedlings. That's done for other times. This is done through other plans of the department: the same Pla de coc of waiting lists; the future plac, which is in process of finalization, of primary attention, will speak of equipping of seedlings. But the Enabling Plate, as its name indicates, goes from Enabling. Therefore, we focus on the question of contract terms. And it's true that this facilitated our agreement with the twenty entities with whom we jointly presented this plan yesterday. Yesterday we presented the plan with co-legislation, with the eight co-legislation, plus FAPIC, with the seven unions and with the four employers. It's a job we've been doing for weeks. Before Holy Week, before we knew that we would have this inquiry, we agreed that we would make this presentation of the Stability Board before the end of the month of April, and the coincidence was that you wanted to ask me if this board came out at the press. For example, here I have an image... Because one very important thing is that this plan, which we did not plan to present together with the entities, has been presented jointly with the entities at the request of the same entities. We made a timid offer at the end of the dialogue process on the possibility of publicly subscribing to the plan and that we jointly presented, and we were told by the organizations: "Yes, we prefer to go out together, and it was they who showed up yesterday about the value of this plan. And I was putting the eyes that I was asking because yesterday, unanimously, the twenty entities – the twenty entities – publicly, before the communication media, valued this plan as the plan that sets the measures that we need at these times. And, therefore, it was the entities that valued these measures not as superficial measures, but as necessary measures; not as measures at the tip of the iceberg, but as long-awaited measures. And, therefore, I imagined, when I laid these eyes, the face of the twenty entities if I had listened to you say that these measures are measures that do not attack the problem. Because the valuation of the entities that they presented together with me yesterday the plan was exactly the counter. We've done a very interesting process. We've done a process in which we decided to start from the department to develop this plan. We can't pull this plan forward until we have a presupposition, now I'll explain why. We have decided since the department to make this advisory committee, because it was a specific new area, an advisory committee with start and end, ad hoc for this plan, so that we could contrast the measures that we intended to put on the table with the target entities, with the sector. And then there was one very important thing, which is that from the department, to create confidence in the organisations invited to the board, we decided to make a comprehensive, up-to-date, and share diagnosis, and give all the information. And that was one of the key questions in this dialog process, because that allowed us to create confidence. If you want to do it, you can do it – you don't want to do it – looking for data here and there, because in the plan you will find them all. The plan is the picture. Now, please, to the rostrum that... forgive me, eh? because my concentration is more fragile than it might seem, and therefore I see activity and my eyes are deconcentrated. I thought this information was information we wanted to share with the organizations. And, therefore, you will find it all in the plan, updated. It's the most up-to-date photo there's on what's the state of precariousness today. Because it seemed to us that the first thing we had to do was share the diagnosis and make sure that our diagnosis coincides with what the organizations do. Why did we agree? Because we said that we had to take targeted measures that would add directly to the employability in the contracting of the current professionals of the system. We're talking about empowering professionals working in the health care system today. We're not talking about incorporating ourselves professionally into this plan. The incorporation of professionals into other places. Let us talk about concrete, effective measures and measures that can be taken immediately. And as these three premises were assumed by all sides, thanks to this it was very easy to agree. Who are the measures that, according to these three requirements – focused, concrete, immediate – can we put on the table to improve the situation of our teachers, midwives, nurses, nurses, assistants, etc.? Three types of measurements. Avoid growth from interinitiation. She is not allowed to escape, honourable Member, that inter-initiation, as you said very well, has disappeared to the ICS in the last few years because the Spanish governments of the year 2010 banned the increase in the wage mass of the public health sector. The decision taken at the Congress of Deputies in 2010 was that the repositioning rate was zero or that the repositioning rate was 50 percent. Therefore, the direct person responsible for the triplication of interinitiation in the ICS is said to be the Government of Spain, which has brought a General Law of State Presumptions to the Congress that prohibits the possibility of creating new places, of calling a public offer of occupation. Therefore, effectively, yes, yes, there was an increase in inter-initiation as it had never been given to history at the Catalan Institute of Salvation direct responsibility for the General Law on State Budgets. For this reason, we have taken three types of measures: measures to prevent interinitiation from continuing to grow; measures to reduce interinitiation, which is another chapter, and measures to reduce eventuality. Because temporality has these two forms, precariousness in contracting has these two forms: inter-initiation and unjustified eventuality. And that was important for the two spheres of the public health system, for the two spheres, for the two types of organization in relation to which the Public Administration and the Health Department have the responsibility for what it does to its contracting policies, which are the ICS and public enterprises and consortia. Because in relation to the third sector, which is a concerted provider of the public health system, we do not have the responsibility for what it does to contracting policies. And the private sector that's out of the public sector, too. Therefore, measures taken by the department in relation to the ICS and in relation to the Epics. So, we can say this, we have six drops that we have to fill: reduce the eventuality, reduce the interinitiation, stop the growth of interinitiation both at the ICS and at the Epics... What are the measures, therefore? There's no detail now, and in the second part of my answer, I can explain the rest. The public offer of occupation, as today we already have a repositioning rate of 100_per_cent, since the year 16..., this allows us, accumulating the repositioning rate relative to the year 15 and the repositioning rate relative to the year 16, to make a call, which in its size can say that it is an extraordinary call, of 2,400 places of public offer of occupation for the ICS. And this measure is already at these times in processing, because it was decided this call to..., last week's government and has been published to the DOGC, and therefore it has already begun its process. And, in the same way, this recovery, thanks to the change made by the Spanish Government in relation to the repositioning rate and the possibility of making a 100_per_cent repositioning, allows us to create 575 places– this series, therefore, a_second call– of public offer in entities that are not of the statutory public service sector of the ICS; in the sector, therefore, of public enterprises and consortia. In the case of ICS it is a single public offer of 2,400 places; it is a single company, which has to make this public offer. In the case of the Epics, these 575 seats are the sum of all calls that all public enterprises and consortia have to do. I will explain the rest of the measures to the second answer. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.198.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Escarp."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.199.0	Thank you, President. See, counselor, you've presented the Job Stability Guarantee Plan, and I've already told you that you're welcome, the plan. And I'm telling him we're sharing the diagnosis. Because one other thing, no, but diagnostics, this counseling does them, and it does them well, let's say it, and here we have..., and all folds share it. The motive of the inquiry went beyond precariousness. He spoke of precariousness and also wanted to speak of conciliation, but also of which are the elements that generate discomfort or which are the elements that generate precariousness in the daily, day-to-day work of the professionals of salvation, of all the professionals of salvation. There is stability, but there is also the issue of wages and there is no repositioning of seats. Because in this... And, listen, I'm telling you, these measures are fine. I won't be the one to reject some of the measures that are most agreed upon. I understand it's a first step... on the part of the discomfort that can be generated. But this will not solve either the care charge or some of the problems that continue to exist at this time. That is to say, the number of visits that a primary teacher will have to do will continue to do so, because we will not solve it. That's right: maybe, the one on the side door, if he's not... we can solve his intermission, which, I'm saying, sounds good, but it's not everything. I'd like to have solutions for everything, just like you; I'm not convinced, counselor. But, therefore, we do want to speak from a much broader perspective. As for the data, of course, this morning you picked up what you presented yesterday. I, who I've prepared and looked at... but I also have to say to the ICS data, and to the ICS website, and to the Transparency Portal, that's all. And if you don't turn on the data, then it means that you have a problem with the Transparency Portal. Therefore, I want to understand that the data that you put in the report and that I could see through the web, and be added, and to the Transparency Portal..., I hope that there are no data that are contradictory, because then we would all have a problem. And it's true something you said, counselor. If we compare the ICS to the rest of the suppliers, we'll come out very badly, huh? , with the public company. Very badly stopped. Because we're around and around 45_percent of interests and eventuals. You've explained very well, and you've explained it now, how we're going to change contracts... possibly. For those who are interested in fixed, 2,400..., accumulation of the repositioning rate..., you say: "We are on the move. Home, now we're through with some opposition that's been going on for a while, let's face it, a public offer. You should know which calendar we have for these oppositions to know more or less where we are. And, besides, here's another topic, which is possible and interjected. Say it's gonna be five hundred. Now, there are no limitations here. There is no limitation here, nor is there only a presuppositional limitation. So, I don't know what it is that can stop there from being any more places of intermission and any more places of intermission. Above all, because we do not know whether these five hundred will cover the structural losses that can be produced during the year 2017 with the reductions that have been planned, some of the 16 and the others of the 17. So, as there is another data that I don't have – because we do have this 16 to know how many people went from eventual to interim –, which is how many people went through the first quarter of 2017, we don't know if at the end of 2017, whether or not there was the public offer of employment and it's resolved, we've solved something, which is what worries us a little, too, the times with which we work. I've told you before, counselor..., no..., we're delighted that there's a job stability guarantee plan; we're delighted that you're here participating and working with the entities, half of whom have been taken away by Congresswoman Irene Rigau, now we're going to look for them; that somehow you can... the half..., a few. [[The joker laughs.]] That somehow we can... But it is also true that with this prospect of being able to bring some of the things that I believe also as parliamentary groups can bring forward we can present the motion, insisting much more..., or perhaps working also the aspect, as before, of conciliation, which we consider very poor in the document that has been handed over – perhaps because, as you say, one thing later on the other..., they have worked in the establishment, not in conciliation and what can be done – and in some measures such as are also required..., today also in a manifesto signed for many entities and associations around the primary care and some of the things that can be done already, insisting also on why we have set limits... eventually continue to contract. I wouldn't want to think that it's because of economic reasons and because eventuals allow you to have much more flexibility in the wrong treatment than not interinating it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.200.0	Thank you, Mrs. Escarp. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.201.0	Thank you, Madam President. From interest to fixed; I have already explained this to the initial intervention. Now, now we can only make the public job offer for the 100_per_cent of places. So, with this, what we're going to do is to prevent you from continuing to grow interiency, and therefore, we want to go further, we want to reduce it, interiality. But this depends on whether the Spanish government – one more time – makes or an extraordinary call, or removes the repositioning rate, or increases to 150_per_cent, or 200_per_cent, or 300_per_cent or whatever it convinces. And, therefore, we are at these times waiting for an agreement to be reached, which at these times is not concrete, which is the agreement between the Spanish Government and the trade union organisations to reduce the inter-initiation of all those workers who are more than three years old. Therefore, we can, with the limitations imposed on us today by the General Law of Presumables and the Spanish Government, put an end to the growth of interiency; we are pending how the agreement with the unions is concrete to reduce interiency. The other question that you were asking me about is the conversion of eventuals into interims. Criteria? The criteria are very simple. A possible contract is only justified if that work is possible, and it is not justified to make any contracts for persons occupying structural places, which is why the object of the plan is to reduce to zero the number of false eventuals. And you ask me: "Mr. MP, explain to me why you are talking to me about five hundred? I'm talking about five hundred because it's been a few years since the ICS has been reducing the possible fakes, it's been turning them into inters. The year 2016 is long gone, what had been said so far, "to plant, it is to say, to switch to interim 1,768 eventual contracts, and it is expected that at these times there will be no more than five hundred false eventual ones in the ICS. So when you ask me, "Why only five hundred?" Because there is no more, because if we ask more, then we would be contradicting what our esteem is. Therefore, the cipher is not five hundred, the cipher is all, all that we expect to remain; end the year 2017 without leaving any place of false eventual to the ICS. Who are the observer's missions, which has been one of the most welcome proposals by the entities? That to some extent the observer allows us to become stable this advisory committee that had expiration date until the presentation of the plan. The functions of the observer, who are in many, at these moments will concentrate on three concrete questions: identify the false eventuals of the EPICs, while we must be aware that if the eventuality of the ICS is 10_per_cent, the eventuality of the EPICs is 5. Therefore, the incidence rate of EPICs is already very low. Therefore, we know that the number of false eventuals of the EPICs is much lower than that of the ICS. In fact, the EPICs in the last few years have also been reducing their false eventuals: there are 796 eventuals that between the 15th and 17th years have become interested in companies and consortia. It means that there has also been a planting process. And that explains that at these times the eventuality is half in the EPICs that in the ICS. In any case, observers, three missions: identify the false eventuals of the EPICs; a guide of practical good in the field of conciliation, and, effectively, two years. Why? Because each center is a world, and it's not the same as the Valley of Hebron as a regional hospital, or it's not the same Central Catalonia primary as the True Hospital, or it's not the same... etc. And each centre must be able to make its own specific conciliation plan, because the capacities of each centre will be very different depending on the size of its staff. And yet another function of the observer, which is also good practice for any justified contracts. Because if the criteria for an eventual contract are care, they are those jobs that are actually temporary jobs, that are concrete jobs, also to these people we have to try to give them as much as possible, while there is a small percentage of justified eventuality. I believe that the most important thing of yesterday, precisely, is the willingness – which even surprised me – of the entities to make themselves swallowers, co-authors of this set-up, they understand – as I said to the principle, that we can only solve problems if we approach them one by one. And in this plan of stabilization, we approach what is stabilization, we address what is the struggle against precariousness, which has to do with the temporality of contracts. It's the most important step. It was many years ago that the Health Department did not present a plan accompanied by all employers, all unions and all colleges. Too many years, Congresswoman. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.202.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Interview with the Government on the National Emergency Plan]] [[300-00161/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is an inquiry to the Government on the National Emergency Plan, presented by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. To expose her, has the word Ms. Montserrat Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.203.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, ladies and gentlemen, as you know, councillor, the Pla d'Urgèncias de Catalunya was for the first time in 1999. From here, therefore, logically, there was..., it went forward in these plans and, for example, so there were four basic axes, right? , as was the enhancement of attention to chronic diseases throughout the year, with clearly defined lines of services to the Pla de salut de Catalunya, to the Pla director socio-sanitari and the PIES, which, among other things, provided health care at home and in coordination with social services; case management; care for residents of opinions; activation and follow-up of Prealt circuits; distribution of PADES teams throughout the territory; teleassistance; day-to-day hospital for chronic disease in hospitals. The second element, also important, was the increase in activity contracted to the different lines of attention during the period of major demand, in winter. For example: increase in the number of high hospitals contracted; hourly expansion of the PADES; reinforcement of human resources in primary care; high socio-health PIUCs; increase in high subaguts. A third element, also important, was the activation of information services to the city at all times during the year, reinforced at times, logically, of major demand: 061 CatSalut Response; the communication of portfolio of services and times; the information systems, of use of services throughout the year, with effort obviously during the time of the grip. Or, the fourth eix, that is the existence of territorial plans of attention to emergencies, that, logically..., emergency plans in centers that reverse the models of triatge, classification of emergencies, specific plans to treat fragile diseases, etcetera. But the truth is that, logically, reality is dynamic and, obviously, I always need to review, update and improve everything. And here, in the current context, the socio-demographic reality, with the population each time older and with greater economic inequalities, and the changes in the population's need for salvation have led to an increase in the use of emergency services. This context requires the adaptation of the service of continuous and urgent attention, organized through an integrated network that allows to give effective response to the needs of the population. This, therefore, is not an ailing fact of Catalonia, but the same trend is observed in the countries around us. But what is this socio-demographic mark? Therefore, the Catalan health system, like most of the systems of the countries around us, has to respond to the needs of a population each time more enveloped, with more chronic illnesses. The decrease in births since 2008, together with the increase in the life expectancy of the Catalan people, are some of the main causes of the demographic context in which we currently find ourselves. As the 2016 Health Report shows, in Catalonia, during the later years, life expectancy in Neixer follows a trend to increase and is in 83 years, 83.4 years in 2014– 80.5 years for men and 86 years for women. While life expectancy with good health is almost 69 years old, huh? – 67.9 for men and 68.8 for women. It should be noted, therefore, that the life expectancy of Catalan women is based on the values of the Spanish State and the rest of the European Union. And, in the case of men, this indicator is also above that of the Spanish State and occupies the position of the European Union. These figures lead to setting up a scene for the next years characterized by an increase in the proportion of people aged sixty-five years and older, as well as the over-enveloping index. It is estimated that in Catalonia the year 2020 there will be about 1 million people of more than sixty-five years old, of whom more than 250,000 tend to be more than eighty-five years old. As the 2016 Health Report put it..., and all this I explain, counselor, obviously, because the context so much from the point of view, therefore, of sociodemography, but as the same indicators to the reports that the 2016 Health Report gives us, places us in absolutely different realities, and therefore we have to face this. Health report from 2016 that, for those who do mortality, 61.9 of the deaths are produced in the past eighty years. Tumors are the leading cause of death – 28.2 of all deaths – followed by cardiovascular disease – 27.9 of all deaths. And in women, dementias, cardiovascular diseases are the most frequent pathologies associated with mortality, while in men they are the lung cancer and the ischemic diseases of the color. In parallel to the population's aging, there is an increase in the burden of chronic disease that affects the population, as the population's morbidity is concentrated in advanced ages, as shown by the Catalonian Health Survey, which practically revolves around 34.3_per_cent of the population. All this information, counselor, I tell you because obviously the context of the current socio-demographic framework and all the characteristics that..., logically, to greater aging – to greater aging – and major, let's say, chronification of the maladies, are giving some characteristics of overload and of well-differentiated realities, and therefore they have nothing to do with other moments. It is true that Catalonia's attention to emergencies is articulated through different devices. I commented earlier: the 061 CatSalut Response, the primary care centers – the CAP –, the continuing care points, the emergency primary care devices around them, the emergency primary care centers – CUAP –, the network of pharmacy offices, hospitals, the SEM..., which act in the network to ensure equitable and quality access to emergency care, adapting to the needs of each territory. But all this, however, is observed varied in the territory, in the distribution of some devices, and it is necessary, all this, to rearrange it. It is also true that since the year 2014 all emergencies are registered, and, therefore, there are information systems for the activity of continuous and urgent attention. Even so, these developments need to be able to carry out a more accurate and real-time follow-up of the activity in these services. With all this, counselor, he commented, as he said to the intervention's heart, that reality is dynamic and that, therefore, logically, in its conjunction and in its overall appreciation of the fact that there are all these differentiating elements, huh? It is perceived, however, a gap between the demand and the offer of the service. Always feeling, a little bit, that he needed it back, huh? It goes beyond what it really is, so it should be. And we honestly believe that emergencies are the miracle of this shift. And I'd like to ask him and, in any case, know his appreciation, counselor, if we have to do the same. We have to, somehow or otherwise, so, logically, take great care of all these indicators, of all these variables, not only territorial, but from a point of view of the different social segments, of the chronification of the disease, that..., of the aging of the same..., let's say, of the aging of the same population. Do we have to do the same thing? Is that enough? Is it valid? Or do we transform, say, the healthcare offer to adapt it to demand? It insists, it is never possible to give, unfortunately, the cent_per_cent, because this same dynamic and this same constant of variability not only territorial, but also of circumstances, causes many times the same institutions, despite being at the edge of the street and being in a constant way, loving all these constant modifications, can always have a small impression that perhaps one cannot get to the full. But it is true that it is, let's say, an intelligent governance to interpret this diversity not only territorially, but also from a point of view of what the same society represents: chronification of maladies, aging... To whom do they owe us? Who are we addressing? Here we are precisely, let us say, bound, logically, with the combination of the universality of the patients and the people who need it..., but surely we are convinced that an intelligent governance, the one that is able to review and bring up to date all those questions, such as the National Emergency Plan, which I believe is not too many days that you have presented. It is the will, in any case, that you can explain it with greater detail, and, logically, I will make a _second intervention. Thank you, Counselor, and thank you, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.204.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.205.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Indeed, a few days ago we presented before the sector, before the professionals the National Emergency Plan. It's a project that we've been working on since the beginning of this mandate, it's a project that has counted on the participation of the best professionals in our country who are experts in the field, the people who are dedicated to it, the people who know it because they are at the bottom of the can every day in our emergency services, and that it was a long-awaited plan. It was a plan that we wanted to do very rigorously, it was a plan that we wanted to serve each other to do things that are different from what we've done so far, because if we don't do things that are different from what we've done so far, we can't solve the problems we have today. If we continue to act today, the problems we have today will follow. Therefore, it was important that this platform starts with a premise, that the problem of emergencies is not the problem of emergencies, the problem of emergencies is the problem of our health systems. And you said it very well. And emergencies are that place where the problem is or, let's say, if we want, in a positive way, the opposite of our systems of salvation is shown in a way, if you want, more dramatic. And for this reason, this plot is part of an integral reflection, which is trying to rethink our system of salvation in its innovations, which I will now expose, and from here on, see what we have to do because the emergencies of our hospitals are not repeated in the episodes that we have been living from years and breads repeatedly. What's the problem with the health system? The demographic change, mostly. The demographic change is a fabulous challenge for the health systems, because it has made the main character of the work no longer a banal patient and the acute patient, which is what we have experienced in the public health systems in the last fifty years, but that, every time more, a person who was there as a secondary person is becoming the protagonist, in the main person, that is the chronic patient, that is the patient derived from the sun made of aging and the increase of life expectancy, or is the patient derived from the fact that today we heal and save lives in malalities that you give, come, thirty, forty years ago, we do not cure or save so many lives. Oncology patient who survives a cancer, cardiology patient who survives a coronary problem and who has a risk of destabilization, as a chronic patient you have a risk of destabilization. And the new character that our country's emergencies are at these times and before which they are not in a position to give the necessary response to this type of patient, are these, the chronic patient, the complex chronic patient. And, therefore, it was no use to say: « Let's go get the PIUC, which is the instrument that the system has and we put more money in it. So, we'll lay down more beds than we have today and we'll put more primary as it is today, because with that we'll put more resources and the problem is not solved. Therefore, it was imperative that we not only have the will to put more resources into emergencies, to urgent attention and to continue, but that we know who the new model is. Because you have explained it very well: the health systems, by definition, are complex systems, with a lot of professional systems, with a lot of technology, with a specific physical network, which makes them rigid, and when there is a change in health demand, by definition, the offer, the services, the devices go back and, therefore, there is a gap, and what we have to try to do is to keep this gap as small as possible. So, who's the key to dealing with emergencies? Transformation, innovation, inventing things in our care network that until today did not exist. And that's why it was important to make a national emergency plan and put it up and all that name a little solemn, so that it is understood that after the national emergency plan we are talking about the integral transformation, gradually, little by little, how things can be done in a health system, but, at the end of the day, the integral transformation of what our care network is. Therefore, it clarifies – it clarifies – a little the objective is when the transcendence of some of the proposals that have been put on the table becomes clear. What do we want? Adapt the network to the new demand, to the needs that are new. Therefore, the objective of the plan – this must also be clarified – is to guarantee quality care. Give each patient what he needs at every moment, from the most preventive perspective possible. One of the objectives of the National Emergency Plan is that people don't have to go to emergencies. Another objective of the National Emergency Plan is that when people go to emergency situations, the minimum time necessary for emergencies is spent and they are drained as quickly as possible to the care system that convinces them most: a hospital plant, a health care provider, where they are. I'm saying because someone thinks that what we're looking for with a reform of the emergency system is stable. No, no, the student will be a welcome derivative of the fact that we better watch our patients. And this is the quality of care that, by and large, also incorporates a benefit in terms of sustainability. Innovation. Innovation means CUAP, for example, is a new device. Not so many years ago there was, but the CUAP, which had been experimenting in the metropolitan region, now has to be settled at the conjunct of the territory. And, therefore, we are, with the National Emergency Plan, defining a national network of CUAP. And this is one of the important measures. A new thing of cracking, was to say, of the year 16, the ESIC; the ESIC, which has as its objective to gather primary and hospital and create devices in the CUPs that allow us to care for the complex patient in such a way that when its destabilization is initiated it can be treated in this arrangement of the primary – in this arrangement of the primary – in such a way that it does not avoid full destabilization, so that it does not call to hospital, that it is the assisting space that ends when there is no such ability to prevent destabilization. It is fixed that both in one case and in the other that we are talking about is to put new and different abilities, new to the primary, and much, and to give it a new capacity of resolution so that it is able to meet the new demand, which is this demand of the chronic patient that gave them before. Another element that will gradually unfold in the next few years, not only in a health system like that of Catalonia, to any country that has advanced, because if not, we will not get out of it: home hospitalization. Home-hospitalization has great potential, but the system doesn't have to learn. The system has to learn to bring technology and home care knowledge. But the empirical evidence tells us that today, when there are well done and well built home-hospitalization processes, the clinical outcomes are the same as at the hospital and satisfaction, the patient's comfort is much higher. Therefore, hospitalization at home. I put this with some examples that it's not about laying more money; it's not about laying more beds, it's about doing new things that until now we haven't done. This is what it does for the adaptation of the offer, from the assistive devices to the new demand, but we also have to be able to manage it, this demand, because today..., we have explained many times some disturbing data. 12_percent of people going to emergencies, MAT V, level V ; 52_percent, MAT IV. All this can be resolved to the primary attention. Besides, MAT V doesn't need immediate resolution, it can wait for the weekend. For the comfort of the patient we need to explain to him that he does not need to come out and that he hopes and that the Vegi will give him his head coach, for the comfort of the patient. And with MAT IV, it's much better to go to a CUP than to a hospital. So, what's here? A demand orientation job, an important job. And that is why in the National Emergency Plan, just as it is passing to most of the reforms of the emergency system of the rest of Europe, 061 is a very important instrument, because it is an instrument that must allow us to precisely make this – between comets – "the gateway of urgent attention – of urgent attention – so as to direct it to the device that suits it best. You're not leaving either. In this sense, 061 we want to specialize. We create a new line of pediatric care twenty-and-four hours, 365 days a year in 061; we create a new line of mental health care twenty-and-four hours, 365 days a year in 061. Therefore, to sophisticate this instrument very much, which is what must enable us to better orient demand. It also articulates better circuits between sociosanitari, 061, CUAP, direct derivation, CUAP to sociosanitari; the sociosanitari has an important role in the desaturation of emergency services. Because, in the end, hospitals, just as they need alternate devices to avoid the patient's entry into the hospital, also need better drainage, and drainage, which means the patient's exit from the emergency room where you need it, means in some cases, yes, more structural capacity, and we can increase structural capacity. We are making an investment of EUR 4_million in Tauli, because in the case of Tauli we have clearly identified that there is actually a lack of drainage capacity due to lack of beds. So, that's where we're going to sleep for eighty nights. And to some other hospitals it is a fan of this type of investment, but in other cases it is precisely about strengthening the capacity of the hospital to drain from the hospital to the socio-sanitary, in other cases it will be about draining from the hospital to the hospital at home, etcetera. This plan, therefore, makes an integral rethink of our health system and so only be able to respond to the difficult problem of emergencies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.206.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Candini.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.207.0	Thank you, Counselor. Indeed, this National Emergency Plan was expected. I used to say that in my first intervention and you, too, with different words, counselor, but we say that reality is dynamic, right? When I, in my first intervention, spoke of governance, because I often think that many times, both parliamentarians, but even so, if you're allowed, also from the institutions, I think it's spoken... Anyway it's a reflection in high voice that I'm sure you'll know how to apologize if you don't share it, right? But many times what ended up talking is strictly a very specific subject, every one that touches him, to hear us, isn't it? But on the other hand, I think the concept of governance has gone much further, and it's the way we talked, as you said, isn't it? I gave it, for example, before, from a point of view of what is an ineffective governance; an ineffective governance is that, therefore, that somehow or otherwise it has some absolutely rigid – absolutely rigid – schemes at the time of making the analysis and at the time of making, let us say, the answer, and in turn intelligent governance is that which is able to interpret reality – to interpret reality – and, therefore, to guide, as you very well said, the orientation of demand. I have explained before all the aspects from a demographic point of view and clearly you too, when I commented that many times what has happened to the length of the years is that the deadly diseases, therefore, have become chronic, by luck, but logically this also makes it increase in a very clear way. Very good initiative everything you have to do with the ESIC theme that you have explained. I also like this reflection that it is not so much a matter of laying money, I insist, but of rationalization, study, indicators, where are, let us say, priorities and how are we?– as we are bosses–, all folds, a mike, to reinvent us in order to be able to give the best solution. For a long time, for a long time, it was said that when it was a fair thing, right? "Just," he used, let's say, "just, and now every time we use the word "equity." I think that's exactly the same thing. I suppose all the folds are self-taught of many questions. At the end and end, then, let's say, of democracy only forty years ago, and we are all directly or indirectly sufficiently self-taught in many aspects, but I believe that the concept of "equity also helps to understand that what it is about is to give a clear answer and with the instruments that it is to make good governance. To go over some of the things I've been able to, say it, get from the information I had, right? So, for example, 2016 was the year of 7 million visits to the emergency department. 49.4 of the total was at the hospitals, 15_percent at the CUAP, 22.4 at the rest of the primary care facilities that give continued attention, and at the SEM on 13.2. But what do you say, too, that? That the overall satisfaction of users with emergency hospital care in 2016 was 7,51_on_10, and the reliability index was 80_per_cent. Why am I saying that? Because also many times, and every time more, we are, let's say, accustomed to accepting a sub-relate – a sub-relate – possibly, therefore, of certain people with the will, logically, to put the emphasis on those things that are necessary, as we all do, but that the report that you do is an alarmist hair. In defense of professionals, in defense of the system, in defense, including, as it must be, also, of courage, of courage, of responsibility, cannot be in any other way, on the part of the Government to try to give the best possible, they must also be able to explain these data. Because it is so important to say, therefore, that there is a very important level of aging as to say that deadly diseases have become chronic diseases; it must also be possible to say that, of these 100_million visits to the emergency services, 7,51_about your approval and that, moreover, the level of loyalty and reliability was high, which exceeded 80_percent. What's more, counselor, is that we encourage him to continue working in the joint defence from a point of view of intelligent governance, of the ability that every time more decision making comes marked by fairness, that the surreptitious fact that sometimes some may have the will to generate a certain alarm in the explanation of what can happen in hospital emergencies is very relegated, in defense of the work of professionals. And, above all, because, in the end and in the end, the health system, with the will of constant improvement on the part of professionals and the same government, I am convinced that every day it will go better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.208.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Candini. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.209.0	Thank you, Madam President. My honourable Member, I am the alarmist... who, as I may assume, would rather not be produced, but I understand it. Because today the two main concerns of the citizens of our country, for which it does to the public health system, are said to be waiting lists and urgent. And we don't have to be very conscious. And it has a base – and it has a base – that concern, because it's very hard to be one day, and one day and a half, and two days, and sometimes three days in an emergency waiting for you to drift, to carry you to the plant, to drift you to a socio-sanitary. So, normal. But, as we take it very seriously, as this seems to us to be a priority problem, precisely because of this we have made a diagnosis of truth, well done. And that's why we understand the complexity of the problem, and we don't make a superficial diagnosis by seeing that the problem can be fixed with immediate solutions, because immediate solutions won't fix the problem. In urgent cases, we will lie if we say that we have solutions of truth and speed. Truth solutions are not quick and quick solutions are not true. And our responsibility is to speak clearly to the citizen and explain this to them. That's why we need to be able to do a lot of things. We need to deploy them now, we need to begin the deployment of that national emergency plan already. But the balance, the assessment we have to do continuously, from the first minute. The deployment has already begun and the evaluation must be permanent. Because one thing is evaluation and the other is balance. And we're going to have to do this one year from now, two years from now, three years from now. So, we can do the balance of whether these solutions that we're putting on the table are valid. Because, indeed, we have courageous decisions in this National Emergency Plan. We said, "We want people if they're not essential, you don't have to go through the hospital. Therefore, all of these devices that have the objective of preventing people from going to the hospital: the CUAP network, the ESIC, the home hospital... All this is: if we can prevent anyone from getting into a hospital, if we can prevent anyone from entering through the emergency room of a hospital, we'll be looking at it better. But for the one that has to go, we have put a very concrete, very clear xifra, which is that in four years' time in the emergencies of our country no city between which entrance and which is derived, the time of arrival and the time of departure, must be no more than twenty-four hours. And we already said that every year of this first deployment process a 10-per-cent reduction in waiting time is required. None, more than twenty-four hours. And that's what the plan is about. And the plan, therefore, is a compromise with the people. And to complete all this, to complete this quality compromise, we know all these steps that need to be taken forward. We know..., you have to make investments, you could already detail the list of investments that we have planned in many emergency services to our country: to the Trueta, at these times, there is an inversion to the emergencies of almost 4_million euros; to the Tauli, I have already explained it; to the Vall d'Hebron there is also a project of 10_millions; to the Joan XXIII, 9_millions_i_mig, have already been opened; to the Cuap de Perecamps, etcetera. That is to say, there are many, the investments that are being made, there will be many measures, there will be many resources that we will put in, but always with this philosophy of transformation. Another important thing of the National Emergency Plan, which creates the specific lines – the specific lines – for patients with specific needs. There is a specific line for complex chronic patients and MACA. There is a specific line of what must be the care circuit for the geriatric patient. There is a specific line of what is to be the special circuit of the oncological patient. There is a specific line of what is the emergency care circuit for the pediatric patient. Because we want to specialise in caring for better and more efficient, giving more quality and, if not, saving resources. Another very important – very important – element of this plan that can be planned from the center of the system, from the Health Department, from the Català Health Service, but must be led territorially – must be led territorially. For this reason – for this reason – the plan incorporates a very important element, which are the territorial operating committees. And they will be key in the success – they will be key in the success – of this plan, the proper functioning of the operating committees of emergencies and emergencies in each territory, the COUie. We at the National Emergency Plan already have our slang – the CUP, the ESIC, the COUie – but with these symbols we are playing the success of the project. And effectively these emergency and emergency committees will be where the concrete, day-to-day, constant and permanent governance of all these devices and their deployment in the territory will be done. I want to think that also with the issue of Catalonia's emergencies will do what it has done in many other moments for what it does to the health sector, which is to be ahead of Europe. Catalonia in many moments has been able to innovate, and then we have seen countries from the rest of our circle that have come to look at how we have done here and have taken over our changes. Emergency is a general problem for all health systems today in Europe, and I want to think that what we are doing with this national plan will be about Europe and that they will come from outside to look at how we do it. And, in this sense, we will continue to honour what has been the tradition of the Catalan health system in democracy, which is the ability to be at the forefront of Europe. Thank you, Madam President. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-04-26-3401.210.0	Thank you, Counselor. Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
