ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.1.0	The session begins. Very good morning to all of you. In accordance with Rule 93 of the Rules of Procedure, Mrs Assumption Laïlla has delegated her vote to the chairman of her parliamentary group, Mr Jordi Turull; also Mrs Assumpta Escarp has delegated her vote to the spokesman of her group, Mrs Eva Granados, and also Mrs Marta Ribas has done so, who has delegated her vote to Mr Joan Coscubiela. The list of questions to be answered orally is in the plenary file and, in accordance with Rule 161 of the Rules, will be replaced this morning. According to the request made by the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes and for compliance with the Government, and according to what is laid down in Article 81.3 of the Rules, an alteration of the agenda is proposed that... – agree, yes – that the item number 7 of the agenda is possible to substantiate the last one, that is, after the item number 9. Do you agree with this alteration? [[Pause.]] Okay, so, it's approved by default. [[Modification of the agenda]] Let's start with the first point of the order of the day, ask the government... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.2.0	Yes, on a point of order...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.3.0	Say, say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.4.0	Yes, we wanted to include an amendment to the agenda in the plenary, as provided for in Rule 81(3) of the Rules of Procedure, to include in the agenda of this plenary a new item, to be added after item 15, which would consist in the vote: « Request for the President of the Generalitat in advance of the plenary to appear on a statement by Senator Santiago Vidal, from which various irregularities and illegalities may be deduced, comeses presumably by the Government. Made by my group, as you know, this request. We would also ask you to support this request..., if you join any parliamentary group, as you know, to rule 81.3 and we have the necessary majority of Members, that the vote on the inclusion of this item be then taken as item 1 of the agenda. Thank you, President. [[Santi Rodríguez and Serra ask to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.5.0	Mr. Rodriguez?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.6.0	Thank you, President. According to what the spokesman of the Ciutadans Group announced, and in accordance with Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, our parliamentary group adheres to this proposal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.7.0	So, according to the Rules, as two parliamentary groups have asked, this petition will be put to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] First, the Lord De Páramo; then, the Lady Rovira; then, the Lord Coscubiela. Mr. De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.8.0	Yes, thank you, President. Before the vote, if it would be possible to read the content of the initiative.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.9.0	Yeah, yeah..., if it turns out it's a vote, you can read it, no problem. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mrs. Rovira... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.10.0	Yes, before Mr Iceta's remarks, here, in low view, I would ask that, before you proceed to the vote, each parliamentary group has the opportunity to give the arguments to proceed to the next vote. That the argument is why it is asked and the feeling of the vote, that each parliamentary group can explain why it is voted in one way or another; it is to say that there is a substance of this point, before the vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.11.0	Okay. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.12.0	Yeah, she was going to set a position, but obviously, with the order the president agreed to. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.13.0	All right, then. In any case... as various groups have asked us to fix the position, we will begin, in any case, for the opposition group. If you want to start, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas or Mr. De Paramo? Then we'll go on and finish the majority group. Sir De Paramo...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.14.0	Thank you, President. Well, the purpose of this amendment to the agenda to include this item is because we want to give the President of the Generalitat the opportunity to explain himself, but to explain himself in Parliament and in front of all Catalans. What cannot be done is for the President of the Generalitat, Mr Puigdemont, to speak only of the issues which concern him and not of a matter as serious as those claims made by Mr Vidal, where he accuses the Government directly of having committed crimes. We believe that it is an opportunity for the President to face the face; it is an opportunity for the President to give all the necessary explanations to clarify this issue, and we believe that, in democracy, the first one who has to be accountable, in the Parliament of Catalonia, is the President of the Generalitat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.15.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Then, for the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.16.0	Thank you, President. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will support the introduction of this new point with the benefit that, if it is finally substantial, it would not be advisable for Mr Puigdemont to appear on the Committee of Inquiry, which, as is well known, will also be expected to deal with these matters. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Pedret. Next, Mr. Joan Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, I don't know if the Rules are prepared for these things, but, given the precedents with which this system has been used, it is very difficult to say that, above all, because we are going to design everything, we will have to accept all that the issue of Santi Vidal is all less closed, and that the solution of not wanting to appear neither the members of the Government, nor the President, nor Mr Santi Vidal, is not a solution. We have said it many times: "You still have an explanation for us, to this Parliament and to the conjunction of Catalonia. There are only two hypotheticals, and if there is a third, explain it. One hypothesis is that what Mr Santi Vidal said is true, and if that were the case, we would be in front of heavy crimes, of which you would have to account. You say no. But then, the other hypothesis is that Mr. Vidal, Santi Vidal, committed a great political scam. And as no one believes that Mr. Vidal was a lone wolf – most likely he was executing a script that others had written to him–, someone will have to explain whether he is part of the logic of the process by explaining to people the lies and scams that Mr. Santi Vidal wore: either it's true and it's criminal or it's lied and it's a political scam? And if there's a third opportunity, if there's a third explanation, a third hypothesis, Mr. Puigdemont, explain it to us... And, above all, if she's lied to, you've been charged with a crime, and therefore, this is slander, the normal thing would be for the government to carry out criminal actions; we would also ask her to explain..., we also ask her to explain to us why she doesn't carry them out. In any case, I think it is a good opportunity: you will not be able to flee forever, you must come to give your face some time. Clearly, they can always practice double political life... which has worked so far. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.19.0	Mr. Coscubiela, that is what is foreseen in the Rules, precisely what we do for this, because it is foreseen. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No..., I read it..., therefore, as you have doubted, so I already pass the dubte and say to him: "Yes, yes, what is predicted, that is why we do it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] It's all right, it's all right. [[You laugh and you see.]] So, I've already had the doubt, and I'm happy... On behalf of the People's Parliamentary Group, who wants to...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Mr. Rodriguez, forward...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.20.0	Thank you, President. Okay. As you can imagine, the members of our parliamentary group do not usually have to attend the events organized by Esquerra Republicana, the National Assembly of Catalonia, or the Cultural Assembly ; however, as we have known the content of the conferences that are developed under the organization of these entities, we have been alerting ourselves. We did it when we saw the contents of the statements of the exjudicator and ex-senator Santi Vidal, but they also alerted us, for example, to conferences of the Secretary of the Hisenda del Governo, Mr. Lluís Salvado, or the spokesman of the Republican Left in the Congress, Mr. Gabriel Rufián, or, at last, some member of the Department of Foreign Affairs or as this department says, who recently changed his name. We understand that it is not a matter that affects, solely and exclusively, a department. It is an issue that we believe is cross-cutting to the whole government, that there are accusations that affect an important part of the government, and therefore we believe that it is absolutely essential that, that person who is in charge of directing the government, and, therefore, is the..., under which the government develops its actions, gives explanations and gives its parent in relation to these statements made in certain public acts. And, therefore, we will support this proposal for the President to appear before Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.21.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. On behalf of the Candidature for Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, Mrs. Anna Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.22.0	Yeah, good morning to everyone. What we think we are going to do is simply move on to a vote that was already planned, because there is precisely a motion on the fiscal policy of the Ciutadans Group, which, at its first point, already provided for the vote around the President's appearance. Either way, we'll talk about it now, and we'll probably talk about it later. And we'll repeat what we've been doing for about three weeks now: we wanted to attend to the Vice President's appearance, we did, and, for us, the issue is closed. [[Widow's remorse.]] The one who somehow... if you don't mind, somehow the one who worries us is that, those political forces that say that we do nothing but talk about the process, it seems that they don't want to do anything but talk about the process... [[Some applause.]] They lose the opportunity, for example, to bring the prosecutor to Sáenz of Santamaría, who said something so hard as "to make a tortilla they have to break the eggs, or they lose the opportunity, for example, to give response to thousands and hundreds of thousands of people that we went out to the streets to dissipate to claim that the borders are broken at once. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.23.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, Mrs. Marta Rovira.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.24.0	Yes, thank you, President. In the first place, and respect the petition that is being made, we must say that the Vice-President of the Government has already appeared; the Secretary Lluís Salvadó also appeared, on his own, to the Parliament, in order to give the explanations that they asked each of the groups, they answered all and each of the questions. Also, remind the spokesman here that, now fifteen days ago, in a control session like this, the President of the Government answered all the questions that all opposition groups had asked him, that all of them were misled about the case of Santi Vidal. We therefore understand that the President of the Government has also given all the answers on this issue. Also, to say that, this House, is to say, in tomorrow's session, there are two of the motions that answer two of the questions in which we will vote points that refer to this very thing that you are now submissive to the vote. Therefore, tomorrow we will have time to debate it and have time to re-vote it. Still, it's the same, we'll vote now, too, in a moment, and we'll vote that not all these reasons. In addition, you, the opposition groups, the main opposition groups, are discussing whether to make an investigation commission and re-draw this issue to finish researching to the point. However, we know that we are already making the conclusions. The 'hypothesis, which there is only one, has not been hypothesis, there is one, they are there, and it is that Mr Santi Vidal apologized; Mr Santi Vidal explained that he had not contrasted the information very well, with all the work that the Government was doing... [[Widow's remorse.]] I..................................................................................................................................................... - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. – attention, news, so you know so little to do – and Mr. Santi Vidal assumed his responsibility and folded his charge, his Senate eschode. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's Mr. Santi Vidal who took responsibility. Accept it! Because, lords of Ciutadans, they're staying in a monotheme another time... [[remorse of the voice]] Santi Vidal. Past control session? Santi Vidal. Question and motion? Santi Vidal. Now, vote? Santi Vidal. Listen to me, we're doing really well, if you're the only one left with this subject. [[Widow's remorse.]] So, look, let me explain it to you, for the responsibility I have. Santi Vidal has already taken over, his responsibility, he has already explained what the hypothesis is here. And there's only one, and that's it. For all that and much more, we will vote no. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.25.0	Mr. De Páramo, do you want to do the reading now or later? Now that we're going... then we're calling for a vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Want to do the reading now? [[Pause.]] So, do it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.26.0	"In the face of the revelations of Mr. Santiago Vidal and Mr. Marsal, of whom there would be alleged irregularities and heavy illegalities, which would entail a serious violation of the rights and the fundamental freedoms of the citizens, even constituting a crime, and also a possible violation of the principle of institutional lawfulness and, concretely, of their duty to comply with the resolutions of the Constitutional Court, effectively, for which it makes to the personal requirements which it has rejected and which derives from Judgment 259/2015, of 2 December, and the subsequent pronouncements of the incidents of execution. The aim is to give the necessary explanations and submeter'salguate parliamentary control on the part of the President of the Government of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.27.0	Thank you very much, Mr De Paramo. Call it a vote. [[Long break.]] We shall proceed to the vote. Anyway... The vote begins. The appearance of the President of the Generality was rejected by 62 votes in favour and 68 against. [[Ask the Government about the Montseny Natural Park]] [[310-00181/11]] Let's move to the next point... well, to the first point of the order of the day, which is, ask the government. The first question is about the Natural Park of Montseny, and the formula Mrs. Mireia Boya, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.28.0	Well, good morning to everyone. Let's go back to things much more mundane, the real Catalonia, which actually happens to Catalonia. Counsel, a recent decision of the Supreme Court has completely annulled the Special Plan for the Protection of the Natural Environment and Landscape of the Montseny Natural Park, which was approved in 2008, and this brings the rules for the protection of space back to the situation of the years 77-78. And, as you know, therefore, environmental legislation has advanced enormously, and this supposes that we are not only forty years back for what you do to the limits of space, but also for what you do to the uses that are permitted. In view of this situation and the concern of the territory, we would like to ask whether the Government intends to act urgently in order to adopt a new regulation for the protection of the park, including the strategic environmental assessment, in collaboration with the Barcelona and Girona and the various municipalities affected, and that this new protection is completed within the maximum of one year; whether in this new plan the current environmental legislation on exclusively urban considerations will prevail, and whether in the process it will take into account the suggestions that can present the different social actors of the territory or will do as with the PDUs that are currently being processed and those that..., with a methodology that has already been used to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.29.0	Thank you very much, Miss Boya. The word has Mr. Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.30.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Member, first thing: the PDUs – and I know this – we would insist a thousand times, they do not approve if there is no absolute consensus on the part of the assemblies, and this is the main system, mechanism of participation. Secondly, actually, there is a feeling that cancels this special plan of the year 2008, because the strategic environmental assessment was not done; that's what it is. But I'd like to give you a message of tranquillity. What do you mean? In the sense that there are regulations that protect this space. There are regulations already around the natural park, around the PEIN... We are talking about a biosphere reserve area, we are talking about an urban planning that has advanced. Therefore, there are instruments to protect this space. But we must act, and we must act in two different lines. We will make this special plan, not based on urbanism, but based on environmental protection, and therefore it will be a much more powerful instrument, and we will do it in terms similar to what you are proposing, with an important system of participation. And second, it is well known that the Government of Catalonia at these times, by decree, is working to expand the natural park's abst. So let's move on this line. At the same time, however, there is a message of tranquillity: there is enough legislation to protect this area so sensitive to the territory and so sensitive to the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.31.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word for Miss Boya.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.32.0	Well, counselor, the good will we've already hoped for, but the reality is that the park surface is temporarily reduced by 50_per_cent. And, on the other hand, some opportunistic sees have already come out that want to take advantage of the legal interinatge situation to get out of the fridge, let's say, some projects that have been rejected enough for scientists, institutions and, above all, for the territory. And we're talking about things like the Illes - Sant Marçal road or the new meteorological research center at the top of the Turó de l'Home, driven by Mr. Oriol Puig, who is the director of the Meteorological Service of Catalonia, who is the brother of the baseball club advisor and who might do better to worry about his denunciation by prevarication and fraud, instead of wanting to urbanize the peaks of the mountains. That said, therefore, we assume that, while the situation of legal interintegration caused by the Supreme Court's judgment lasts, and until the new special stage is approved, this Government will order a precautionary suspension of works, infrastructure authorities, changes in uses and activities in the area of the municipalities that integrate the park. Is that it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.33.0	I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.34.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. First, we're not talking about a road, and you know it, because it's not asphalted, it's four meters as high as it is, it's just supposed to form those hanging areas, absolutely restricted access... Therefore, we are talking about a way of service, and do not say road, because it is not a road. Secondly, I have explained to him that at these times there are already protection systems, and this is a basic element, and that this feeling has abst respect for what needs to happen in the future, does not respect previous situations. And so what I'm saying is that based on this, we don't put in a lawsuit suspension, but I could study this extreme if the situation advises. This is the brand we're working on. And always from the consensus – and always from the consensus –, especially with the Barcelona City Council and with the assemblies. I thought you'd be referring to nephews and cousins, too. I see that this is not so, but you know exactly why we react in these terms before the Aemet threat to act for the right if we don't stop it, and you know it perfectly well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.35.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the government pact with the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed]] [[310-00175/11]] Second question, on the government pact with the Candidature of Popular Unity - Crida Constituent, formulated for the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Lord Alejandro Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.36.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Junqueras, the leader of her governing partners, Mrs. Anna Gabriel, recently said: "Our response will be bloody and virulent. Mr. Junqueras, will you today condemn this bet for the rape of your partners and break the pact with the CUP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.38.0	As you know, this government and this majority of Parliament are firmly committed to democracy, to the exercise of democratic rights, to the exercise of the right to vote and, therefore, to the exercise of a referendum on the future of Catalonia, on the independence of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.39.0	I have the word Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.40.0	Thank you, President. The culture of pau is a concept widely claimed by the CUP. It's about a broad, very generic concept, and it means that the CUP is a little bit concrete. The first was the mayor of Berga, who said in the text: "We will give hosts that appear terror. Anna Gabriel continued: "Our response will be bloody and virulent. We already know what the culture of the Pau of the CUP consists of. It is a culture of pau curious, also, that has some ethical and moral referents like Arnaldo Otegi, condemned for belonging to the armed gang, or Mr. Carles Sastre, condemned for terrorist assassination; all very peaceful. Mr. Junqueras, we demand that you break the pact with the CUP. This pact at this time is absolutely incompatible with civility, concord and the pact, is absolutely incompatible with the fundamental rights of Catalans and is absolutely incompatible with the democratic values of the European Union. I don't care about these types of statements. You can't deal with people who bet on violence. Whatever happens, today, condemn or not – let them not do it – we also want to convey from the People's Party a clear message to those who threaten us with violent responses: they lose all hope. They lost all hope because violence and threats in modern democracies only weaken them. Losing all hope because Catalonia is, it has followed and will always be civic land, of concord and peace. Lose all hope because there will be no violent conflict here, which will be fair, and from this no one escapes, come from where to come. Mr Junqueras, we are reassured, insofar as we know that this type of violent ideas will never triumph in Catalonia; but we also tell you that this pact with the UPC is ethically incompatible with democracy, and therefore we demand that you betray this pact and return dignity to Catalan politics. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.41.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. The vice president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.42.0	Mr Fernández, as I explained to you a moment ago, we are firmly committed to democracy, we have always been, without exception, without exception, and I remind you that who wants to exercise the right to vote, who defends the democratic right to vote is the majority of Parliament in this Parliament, who pursues it and who wants to prevent it and who threatens to seal schools, etc., we are not ourselves, but rather the government of the party you represent in this chamber. Therefore... Mr Fernández, I would also like to remind you that, listen, this majority of Parliamentarians, for example, is compromised with the daily welfare of citizens, for example in the field of salvation, while a minister of your government, of the government of the party of which you are a party, boasted with your interlocutor that he had done everything possible to destroy the health system in Catalonia. Clearly, who do you want us to understand? With those who do everything possible to defend the health system in Catalonia or with those who do everything possible to blow up the health system in Catalonia? So, listen, if you are dedicated to making these kinds of statements, those who make them do not resign or fold, but you reward them and give them the presidency of a committee in Congress, it is obvious that we will always be on the side of the Democrats, we will always be on the side of those who are concerned about the rights of the citizens of Catalonia, about the social rights of the citizens of Catalonia, about the public services of the citizens of Catalonia. The same way that we are compromised, this majority of Parliament – you are not aware of – with, for example, welcoming refugees who are victims of wars in the Middle East and in particular Syria, while, in turn, your Government is doing everything possible because this is not possible, against an extra-majority demand from Catalan society. The same way that this government does everything possible because the Catalan economy continues to grow at a rate that more than doubles the average pace of the euro area and the European Union, at an industrial growth rate that triples that of the euro area middle, and, listen, and despite all the hoops that everyone knows we find each day, we continue to do so. And that is what we will continue to do, working for the quality of life of the citizens of Catalonia and seeking that they have all the tools they have at their disposal. And, to be sure, the best tools, the best tools are the tools of a state. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.43.0	Thank you very much, Mr Junqueras. [[Ask the Government about the working conditions at 061 and the functioning of this service]] [[310-00174/11]] Third question to the Government, on the working conditions of 061 and the functioning of this service. The question is posed by Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.44.0	Yes, thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, recently the Department of Health has set up a campaign to encourage calls to 061, with the aim of mitigating the situation of col·lapse in the emergencies of some hospitals. Given the expected increase in tricks, what resources have been increased, especially in relation to the medical staff and to what do the tricks have to do?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.46.0	Yeah, good morning. Thank you, Madam President. Mr. MP, when we put the campaign on the march, in a press round where we explained your goals and your functioning, we said that we were going to increase the number of health and technical professionals as a result of the increase in demand and that we were going to make an adjustment day by day, because it was difficult to make an exact prediction with much anticipation of what the campaign's impact on the population would be, and that's what we've been doing. So, between weeks... we have adjusted, as I say, therefore, the template to the increase of activity. And this means that between week and week we have posed between nine and eleven professionals, depending on the day, more; this means between two and four meths, between three and four nurses and four technicians. And in the top of the week, thirteen more professionals, which means four doctors, four nurses and five technicians. The trick increase is very variable depending on the time of the day and depending on the day of the week, but we do have the middle, which is 4.2_per_cent from the inician. We have an increment of 4,2_per_cent tricks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.47.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word Mr. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.48.0	Yes, thank you, President. Look, I've talked to workers at the trick center, and they haven't noticed any increase in staff; they haven't noticed. But, of course, in addition, look, your work situation has worsened with this campaign. I do not know if you are aware that the departure of conditions signed with Ferrovial in 2015, after the award of the management of the trick center to 061 putting in value the decrease of more than 2_million euros in relation to other offers, has not been completed for more than a year. The SEM does not seem to be conscious, because it states publicly that it is complete. Miri, neither Ferrovial completes, nor the SEM claims that you do. I can give you examples: there are situations of possible law failure; there is wage discrimination in relation to the agreement's commitments; there is no completion of the planned continuous training, essential in a service such as this; there are continuous variations in protocols and calendars; there is no respect for the automatic pause between the call and the call; the room coordinators have to take tricks, leaving the room unsupported. In other words, I could go on with a long list. Neither do they complete the work agreement – and it has already been repeatedly denounced to the Labour Inspectorate – nor do they complete the agreement signed with the SEM, which should intervene – it should intervene – counselor, because the consequence is to make the workers of the trick center work under enormous psychological pressure and eventually end up offering a bad service. And we're not talking about any service, anyone claiming a phone bill. We're talking about an emergence service that offers itself as an alternative to a face-to-face visit to hospitals; we're talking about human lives; we're talking about a faked-a-sole-a-sole, can put the salvation of what he's calling into a unnecessary danger. And there's crazy tricks, and there's lost tricks, and there's unnecessary tricks waiting. We need to build trust in a service that we want, counselor, and secure. Therefore, he must be extremely curated in his management, with the necessary staff and with good conditions. Listen to me, we want to know your position respects this service. And look, if Ferrovial doesn't complete or the SEM claims that you do, we ask you to intervene. So the question is, what do you think you're doing, counselor, with the 061 trick center's operation? Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. I've got the counselor's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.50.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Vidal, in the sweep of things. At 061 there are two hundred people, but for a song there are the teleoperators, who are the professionals who have been hired by Ferrovial, who won the contest to make this part of the service, which is to take the trick and get it, and then there are the health professionals, who are the doctors and nurses, who are professionals of the EMS. The way you explained it, it seemed like you were all barricaded. Those who answer the health consultations are not contracted by Ferrovial, they are doctors and nurses of the SEM. Plus, I'll give you the data: we have 79..., a 40_per_cent– a 40_per_cent– of the two hundred people there, a 40_per_cent are the teleoperators of Ferrovial, which are 79; then we have 66 nurses and 55 meths, which is this 60_per_cent of professionals of the SEM. Since it cannot be otherwise, one of the conditions of the competition, one of the most important clauses of the competition, was the strict compliment of the agreement. Therefore, indeed, we must ensure that the contracting company is complete with the departure of clauses. The agreement was for two years; it was awarded July 2015; July 2017 has to be done the assessment of how the agreement worked during these two years because there is the possibility to extend it for two years. And when the time comes, as I agree – apart from demanding the compliment already right now from the competition's clauses –, when the time comes, by June, we are already preparing the evaluation process, it will be the assessment when they correspond, which is June, and at that time it will be the decision whether it is extended or not, or it is a new competition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.51.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about dependent people]] [[310-00173/11]] Fourth question to the Government, about people in a situation of dependence. The question is posed by Mr Raúl Moreno of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.52.0	Thank you, President. Just a week ago, the opinion of the Monitoring Committee was presented in this Parliament. Two headlines he does for Catalonia: "At the current rate, 416 years will have to pass because all Catalans and Catalans who are on the waiting list are still tickled. « Catalunya is the only autonomous community that has increased the waiting list in four points. Honourable Counselor Bassa, what will you do to reverse these disastrous and worrying results? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.53.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.54.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. What we will do is explain to the appearance, the need to boost the home care system; therefore, increase in the intensity of the support to the SAD, the service of home care, technical aids, technical services, teleassistance, advanced teleassistance, the PIAISS, therefore, adaptation programs to the home and support, the impulse to prevention, which I know is a measure pending from the LAPAD, and the development of day care resources. Anyway, this time that you say I think we could double it or triple it, because, as you well know, ratings can be demanded constantly. Therefore, one thing is the initial value, but at the beginning it can be asked again for value. So, say 436, we could say 800 or 1,000 years, because every day, everyone who is in the system, can ask for another valuation to be updated. So, it's not a matter of years or people, it's a matter of well done work, which is what we're doing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.55.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.56.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, don't make me more comfortable with your words. The situation of dependence in Catalonia is very worrying. The opinion is based, moreover, on data from the same ministries passed through the Government of Catalonia. Every day that passes, a person with no dependence dies without a help, in Catalonia. Today, we meet the same people as the year 2012. In fact, Catalonia is the second autonomous community, after Canàries, with a higher percentage of destitute people. The per capita expenditure in Catalonia is lower than the state average. More than three thousand jobs for women have been lost, Mrs. Counsellor de Treball, Benestar Social and Families, which are mostly dedicated to this sector. You talk many times about finance too, and you're right, the same opinion tells you: in 2016, the People's Party government stopped paying Catalonia 85_million euros in the concept of dependency: Catalonia and all the autonomous communities of Spain, and they don't find themselves in the situation we find ourselves in. There could be up to 12,300 more people; but I remind you, counsel, three things: the first, which, while paying the PP, the list of waiting in Catalonia is of ninety-one thousand people. Therefore, it is not just a question of money; it is a question of the mismanagement that is being carried out by the Government. And a given objective: that Madrid does not pay and that its government retails 40_million euros to help them in dependence on the assumption of 2017, both for non-professional caregivers and for direct help; that they increase the co-sponsorship of people with grade II in Catalan residences by forty-five euros, and in more than 125_per_cent residential services for people with HIV and people with disabilities by drug addictions. He will advise, I have completed the mandate of this Parliament and present the shoc plan that we approved a year ago. Six years of dependency paralysis are enough to see the ineffectiveness of his government and his predecessors in this matter. We're at the top of all of Spain and the governing communities for all political colors. We are working on this in order to reduce bureaucracy in the management of dependence, as other autonomous communities have done. It's urgent, it's necessary and above all, counselor, it's a right. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.57.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.58.0	Thank you, President. When you take the numbers, Mr Raúl, you take the numbers, Mr Raúl, in your own way. I'll just tell you some data: Of the numbers you say, the ones that are real are those who died waiting for a valuation, this year 2016, 335 people, which is a shame, and the year 2015, 567. Even though grade I became dependent and therefore entered July 2015; but when you were running 2010 1,600 people died; 2009, 2,680, and 2008, 2,860. Therefore, as you will see, we have been working hard on this subject, for one part. On the other hand, the lists of access to residences, which you also say some data, are not real the ones they give. As of today, 23,750 people are looking for a residential service, but from these, 5,000 are already admitted and 18,000 are already receiving a benefit. So... In addition, in 2016, 2,507 have renounced entry and re-positioning the Cua de las Residencias. So we're working; we don't have to do any more. We have a plan of shock for 2017, that I do not doubt that you have approved the assumptions in order to be able to put forward all the measures that we have in the plan of shock, of places, of fears that they have to see with the strengthening of the system, with the best of the immobiles...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.59.0	He'll advise...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.60.0	...and with the best of attention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.61.0	...has run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.62.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.63.0	Five questions to the government about tax data. [[Ask the Government about tax data]] [[310-00176/11]] The question is posed by Mr Fernando de Páramo, of the Grup Parlamentari Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.64.0	Thank you, President. Yeah, we'll keep talking about the Vidal case until you answer the questions. And if they keep hiding the president [[applause]] of the Generalitat, every day. Be prepared, because we will ask you every day, until you give answers and until the President of the Generalitat appears. You are the kings of the monotheme and you have a new monotheme that you did not count on. [[remorse of the voice]] That's Mr. Vidal. Two very direct and very clear questions, Mr Junqueras. Did you or anyone on your team attend any of Mr. Vidal's events for more than three months throughout Catalonia? And second question: Will you take any legal action against Mr. Vidal for defaming them and accusing them of crimes? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.65.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice-President of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.66.0	Good morning, Mr. De Paramo. Thank you, President. I see that you find yourself liked in the monotheme, which never comes out, of the monotheme. Listen, the other day we made a appearance, which, if I'm not mistaken, was five hours and a half, because we chained two appearances, one as Vice President, the other as Economy and Finance Advisor. They had, if I'm not mistaken, come back to intervene among the various opposition groups; we answered all the questions that were asked and that there were, and therefore, how we answered them all, escorted, these gifts too. No, no, I didn't watch it, I said it. And besides, listen, repeat our good use of all the data, ours..., the fact that we asked the Agency for Data Protection for an investigation, that we asked for it from the very beginning, that it is out of the 30th generation, that, therefore, it will be public data. You're sure you'll be absolutely at ease with respect, and the monotheme, at least in this chapter of the monotheme, will run out of it, you'll have to come up with something else. You got good teachers, huh? Time to invent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.67.0	Thank you, Vice President. It has the word the Lord of Parama.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.68.0	Well, Mr. Vidal was invented by you, not Citizens. [[Greetings.]] He was put in his party; he was commissioned by the Catalan constitution. Mr. Artur Mas put him in, put him to the finger as an advisor, in addition to the government; and then you put him number one and made him senator. Therefore, we have been given the best invention made by Esquerra Republicana since he was born, which is Mr Vidal. He did not answer the question: if anyone on his team..., I imagine you were not in those acts by your vice president's agenda, but as you are the president of Esquerra Republicana and those acts have also been promoted by your social networks, by your channels; they made press releases: « You did not lose this late in the run-up to Santi Vidal. « Make your proposal to the Republic that we will make with Santi Vidal. You have campaigned under the title 'Republic that we will do; we have already seen the republic that you would do according to Mr Vidal's statements. But they did a series of acts, many acts, which were directly sponsored by their party. Therefore, I imagine that someone from your party would be in those acts, if you organized them; someone from your government team would be in those acts; someone who might be sitting in this Chamber I imagine would be in those acts. How can you, from Esquerra Republicana, do eleven acts for three months and no one on your team or anyone on your party knows that Mr. Santiago Vidal is accusing you of crimes for three months throughout Catalonia? Either you organize very badly in Republican Left, which I know is not, or is that then you do not know what happens in the actions of your party. And then the second question did not answer me, Mr Junqueras. Will you take any legal action against Mr Santi Vidal? Are they going to sue? Are you going to complain directly against a gentleman who is accusing his Government of crimes? Because I would like the Government of Catalonia, when they lie to you and when they charge you with crimes... because the Government of Catalonia does something and does not stand idly by, because, if not, it seems to be free to charge you with crimes and defame you directly against the Government. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.69.0	Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. Mrs. Rovira, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.70.0	Yes, Madam President, for a point of order, to reflect that we are in a session of control of the Government of the Generality. And I would ask that the questions that are addressed to the members of the government remain as the responsibilities of the government they occupy and develop, do not ask respect certain political parties, campaigns of certain political parties. In any case, these questions need to be addressed to other policy makers, and we will answer them in depth. But I'd ask that in the control session it's cenyeixi... [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Appeal to the principle of congruence; appeal to the principle of congruence which is reflected in the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, and request that the Bureau come to apply the principle of congruence. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.71.0	Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.72.0	Yeah, for direct allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.73.0	Say it. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.74.0	Thank you. They are very nervous about the Vidal case, which even you have to ask for the floor to defend Mr Junqueras, but I have already made it very clear in my question: if there are members of the government and members of the direct team of the... [[Funnel veils]] – see the transcripts – members of Mr. Junqueras' team who attended these events. I would therefore ask the Government and the group that supports the Government not to tell the opposition how it has to do its work, because now there is an opposition in Catalonia, which previously did not have it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.75.0	Thank you for your input, but we understand that this Bureau will appreciate the questions that need to be asked. Anyway, now the vice president has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.76.0	Thank you, President. Mr De Páramo, we... yesterday, if I'm not mistaken, the High Court of Justice of Catalonia dismissed a claim in this direction, because it considered that it has no purpose, that statements do not have authenticity, do not have veracity. Therefore, it seems to me that the answer has already been given to the judgments of respect. Remember, we've commissioned an investigation from the Data Protection Agency. Therefore, I hope to have this result, and I am sure you will be reassured of respect. Moreover, I remind you that Mr Santi Vidal made some statements in a certain direction and did them just in the opposite direction, correcting what he had done, with the same level of publicity. Therefore, it is obvious that there is no use in filing a criminal claim, because the same intensity with which a statement makes the use to deny that statement he made. He has assumed this responsibility, he has resigned from his post; therefore, it seems to me that his responsibilities are more than assumed. And I remind you that what we do is, for example, continue to use the tax agency to fight tax fraud. In these last two years we have raised 360_million euros of tax fraud. I hope that doesn't make it hard for him. I hope you prefer that we fight tax fraud and not like your partners in the Spanish government, which is dedicated to making tax amnesty. We don't in fact do tax amnesty, we work to fight fraud, we work to give the best service to the citizen of Catalonia, we work to make things good girls, as we have always done and as we always do. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.77.0	Thank you very much, Vice President. [[Ask the Government about childhood and adolescence]] [[310-00177/11]] Ask the government about childhood and adolescence. The question is posed by Mr. José María Espejo-Saavedra, of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.78.0	Thank you, President. Mrs Consellera, Save the Children's latest report informed us that child poverty has been triggered no more than a 23_per_cent in Catalonia over the past two years. Half a million Catalan children live below the poverty line, and of that half a million children live in households where the only person who brings some money home has a temporary job. Faced with this data, look, I might ask you what you have done to reverse the situation, but as it has just worsened as you govern, as you governed Convergence, as you now govern Left and Convergence, with the support of the UPC, the most correct question is: what have you done to make this question so badly? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.79.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.80.0	Thank you, President; thank you, Member. As the Save the Children report says, you must have seen clearly that it's 2008-2015; we're in the government of early 2016. So, yes, we were working, and what I was reporting was what was there before 2015. Despite that, it's a worrying report; we're working. In fact, we have meetings with them to see exactly where these data are, because according to the report they are of the Idescat, and the data we have of the Idescat are that from 2013 to 2015 family returns have increased by 4,4_per_cent, and in the second quintile, that you know that the Idescat marks for quintiles, by 3,8_per_cent. So they wouldn't match. Despite this, we have been working all year 2016 and know that we have many proposals for 2017. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.81.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word "Mr. Mirror."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.82.0	Yes, thank you, President. Counselor, you always do everything right, and if something goes wrong it's everyone else's fault. In this case he blames his current government partners in Convergence, right? Look, you here recognized that not everything that had to be invested has been reversed. If you recognize it, what's going on? They don't do anything. And, look, I, rather than criticising it, also offer you things that you can do and that we have presented in this Parliament. For example, the Benefit Act for families with dependent children, which is being processed, at the request of Ciutadans, in this Parliament. Are you going to vote in favour? Are they going to vote in favour of this Parliament or are they going to delay it? Or are you going to do as in the budgets by rejecting our proposal to allocate EUR 23 million to education from zero to three years to which you have allocated in the budget that you submitted to zero? Or are they going to do as with our free textbook proposal, rejecting it and even preventing it from being debated here? – you who talk about that here do not let you discuss everything. There is no debate here, because you voted against the free text books of all Catalans, of all Catalan parents and children. Look, your actions, what you finally do, have nothing to do with your words. During his government, child poverty worsens, and not only do they do nothing to solve it, but they put sticks on the wheels, sticks on the wheels for the proposals that the opposition brings here to fill their inaction. Advisor, investment in children is the best social lift. You have loaded that elevator and do not even let others propose solutions. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.83.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mirror. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.84.0	If you have charged the elevator, it must be that this will allow you to approve the assumption of an increase of an 11_per_cent to the childhood parties, therefore 237_million; an increase of 8.4 support to families, 20_million euros; social inclusion and the struggle against the poor in the child part, 212_million euros, therefore, an increase of 8.2. And I hope that in a while I can say that you didn't load the elevator because you didn't vote for the assumptions. But beyond that, if we look at the conclusions of this report that you say, which, as I very well explain, is 2008-2015, it says: "Recover the minimum income of inclusion. You know that we are at these times working to achieve a guaranteed income, which is the best defense of families, the best right for families, because it will be a income for all family members; a universal benefit that goes directly to families, and therefore to all infants. But, in addition, we have the Comprehensive Family Support Plan, for the children, and the Observer for the Family; all the news from this 2016, which you did not take into account at the time of asking this question in 2017, and only look before 2015. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.85.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about support lines and aid to promote the competitiveness and sustainability of the agri-food sector and the economic, social and environmental development of the rural environment]] [[310-00179/11]] He asked the Government about support lines and aid to promote the competitiveness and sustainability of the agri-food sector and the economic, social and environmental development of the rural environment. The question is posed by Ms. Carmina Castellví, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.86.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Serret. In July 2015, the European Commission approved the Catalonia Rural Development Programme corresponding to the 2014-2020 programming. This RDP is the result of the joint work between the Administration, the sector and a follow-up of agents acting in the territory and drawing up a preliminary diagnosis and a DAFO analysis, which lasted more than a year, bringing together measures and assumptions that ultimately define the programme, which is applied over the period 2014-2020. And that's how it must be, with joint planning and an inclusive approach that should keep policies in our rural territories, and that puts in place the intrinsic values, the dynamics that are given and the opportunities and the challenges of the rural world. It is a year and a half ago that this programme is developing with a remarkable success in all the measures to be implemented, as demonstrated by the 1,146 shippers processed for the better of competitiveness, prioritizing young and priority farms, or the 712 incorporations of young farmers, or the 12,725 beneficiaries of aid to agricultural sustainability, or the 4,932 beneficiaries in areas with natural limitations. Nor can we forget the Leader program, managed for the 11 local action groups representing 73.24_percent of the territory, 556 municipalities and a population of more than 770.000 people, and that in the past period this program involved the creation of 565 enterprises, the support in the improvement or expansion of 958 existing ones, the creation of 1,697 new jobs and the consolidation of 8,986 existing ones, are almost the only program that in time of crisis was able to give economic and technical support to the enterprise and economic activity of the rural territories. Is that why it is important to know this Member and her group who are the lines of support and help to promote the competitiveness and sustainability of the agri-food sector and the economic, social and environmental development of the rural environment? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.87.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Castellví. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Serret, Agriculture Counsellor, Ramaderia, Fisheries and Food.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.88.0	Many thanks, President; many thanks, Member. Certainly, you have said very well: we have the Rural Development Programme; the Rural Development Programme is one of the main political lines of agricultural policy at European level and also at the level of this country, and it is the result of joint work and a pact undertaken by many actors, for the main agents representing professional organisations, but also by all the agents of the rural world. From this joint work, from this pact, it corresponds to us, like the government, to execute with the utmost rigour and responsibility all the planned measures and all the resources that have been provided for this period, these 810_millions for this period until 2020. And this responsibility is supposed to ensure in this execution that we can give guarantees that we call the measures every year and that, moreover, we keep this vision together, because we have to take account of the lines for the agricultural sector, but also for the forestry sector, but also for the modernization of regadius, but also for the transformation, and this production of proximity and quality, or what could be co-operativeism, and, as you said, the Leader program, huh? , which has this extension with the economic diversification that we need for our country. From this global visit and this responsibility we must also be able to maintain the rigour and all the confidence that we have had so far with the European Commission. Why do I want to point out that this year, almost for the second year, we're on zero financial correction, okay? That means we've been able to do an exemplary execution. There are no communities in the Spanish State that can presume. From here, as you said, in which is the global contract of exploitation, 2015 we have achieved record data on beneficiaries; by 2016, with the presupposition of increasing almost 30_percent of the resources to the global contract, we want to maintain this dynamic and we are agreeing to the 2017 call to continue in this good dynamic. But, we insist, we do this together, and we have already agreed with the sector that is planning to review the RDP in 2018. 2018 we have to work together to improve and adapt all this RDP, taking into account the application, which we have found in these first years of application, but above all to keep these objectives we seek. And we will work with all the agents on the RDP follow-up committee and the other agents we also need to consult with the territory to ensure that the RDP continues to be a tool for advancing this national pact for a food policy of a country that ensures local food production and sustainable environmental management. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.89.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the state of execution of the Mediterranean Corridor]] [[310-00180/11]] Ask the Government about the state of execution of the Mediterranean Corridor. The question is posed by Mrs Meritxell Roigé, of the Groupe Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.90.0	Thank you, President. Counselor Rull, the Mediterranean Corridor and the one that this supposes for the country has been object of debate many times in this House of Parliament, and unfortunately today we will not have to speak again. And I say badly because we again find ourselves with significant shortcomings on the part of the State as to its execution and also as to its priorities. We start, and may remember, that the territory through which the Mediterranean Corridor passes generates 46_percent of the GDP of the State and, moreover, forms an area that stands out in terms of economy, industry, exports, attraction of investments, innovation and tourism. This territory concentrates more than 50_percent of exports and imports of the state joint venture and, if we set ourselves with the number of enterprises, the area exceeds 63 of the exporting enterprises and also 61_percent of the importers. And to these data also add that the ports to which the Mediterranean Corridor passes concentrate more than 60_percent of the concentration of goods and more than 80_percent of the movement of contents. And before these figures I would like to think that the State prioritizes actions in the corridor, in this area of the Mediterranean, but unfortunately it is not so, and we find that once again the investments of the State in Catalonia are lagging behind and do not respond to the economic return that would have to wait for investments. We've learned the last few days that the Mediterranean Corridor is going through Madrid with more force than in the Mediterranean area, and we've known that the Mediterranean Corridor is being invested in Madrid, as is the case with the Atocha stations, in Madrid, the connections between Madrid and Chamartín, or also the connection of the Barajas airport with high speed. And while we're here, we still don't know what the deadline will be, the closing date of the runner's works. We also have, among other things, the connection..., the date of completion of the connection of the T-1 to the airport of Prat ; we follow without the implementation of the wide standard between Castelló and Vila-seca, among many other works. Therefore, we find that here we still have the work of the Sacred, we have the double way between Vandellòs and Tarragona, and they have told us that they will take a year longer than the former minister said, and we carry fifteen years of work. So, before all this, what we see is that we need to act directly, we have the priority to open our economy to the world, it is our will and it has always been, and therefore we ask it how the Government appreciates that the State invests more in this white Madrid country than not in the Mediterranean area and also what the Government is doing before this priority of the State, before this situation of us delays that we are patenting in the country regarding these infrastructures that we so much need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.91.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.92.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Congresswoman, what's going on around the Mediterranean Corridor is very hard. We're talking about a lot of potential jobs, we're talking about a lot of public and private investment around the Mediterranean Corridor. We made the strategic table, in which we approved, together, with no consensus, with unanimity, which should be the priority of the Catalan agenda of the Mediterranean Corridor. I remember an intervention, done from the port of Tarragona, to say the amount of money that is put up, of reversal, because there is not a certain calendar. Therefore, we are talking about a very transcendent issue. First element. Second: when the minister sees us he explains that this branch Vila-seca - Tarragona goes a year late; he explains this to us, he tells us: "Mediterranean Corridor: a year late. This is not the Mediterranean Corridor, or so it does not deceive us, because it is not wide international, the Mediterranean Corridor is wide international, and it says to us: "The whole Iberian, a year late, and still do not tell us on which date they will put the third thread. And the third thread, if they pose it, they pose it only with one way and not with two lives, which makes impossible the whole strategy of connection to the border with the French State. And in parallel, what do we know? That this branch of Madrid of the Mediterranean Corridor does have all the inversion. We are talking about 935 million euros: tunnel, quadruplication of lives, international scope, access to the airport..., everything. It's an authentic scandal. While there is all the reversal of all possible ways, here we are under a level of disinversion that is dramatic. This is the situation. And from here, then, gesticulations. They say they created the figure..., in fact they have already appointed the coordinator of the Mediterranean Corridor; they have named it, but they do not say what to do, what to manage, how to manage, or what resources it will have. And that's why the Government of Valencia and the Government of Catalonia, folds, together, unit of action, what we say is: "If you don't know what the coordinator of the Mediterranean Corridor has to do, we'll tell you. But at a later stage, we know what we want, we know how to do it; we do it, we decide ourselves a fundamental infrastructure for the progress and well-being of this country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.93.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the school programming agreements to which it arrived in the joint commission between the Department of Education and the municipalist entities Catalan Association of Municipalities and Municipalities and Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia on February 9, 2017 (decauguda)]] [[310-00178/11]] Questions to the President of the Generality. [[Question to the President of the Generalitat on the labour dispute of the estabadores]] [[317-00121/11]] First question, on the political and social situation, formulated for the lady Mireia Vehí, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.94.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. I take advantage, before I do, of the fact that in the last twenty-four hours three women have been murdered in the Catalan Countries: Gandia, València and Santa Perpètua de la Mogoda. In the second place, I would like to send a solid embrace to the stairwells and stairwells of all the ports of the Catalan Countries. The other day we were at the port, we went to see them; we don't know if the president had the chance to do it. They are in labor dispute on the basis of a royal decree which the Ministry of Development wants to approve and which modifies the estiba to the ports of general interest. The origin of the conflict is to justify in a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union, but between the judgment and the proposal of the royal decree there is hardly any to see. The royal decree, precisely, opposes the willingness to negotiate that unions and employers are trying to get by so as to interpret the sentence so that it is possible to continue guaranteeing labor rights. Yesterday the trade union coordinators of the estabadors re-convoked the position because negotiations with the Ministry of Development do not pull forward, they do not go well, they serve half-way. President, is you aware of the conflict that, in the case of the Principality, affects the workers of the ports of Barcelona and Tarragona, and that, if we think of the key of the Catalan Countries, affects the ports of Castelló, València, Alacant, Gandia, Sagunt, and the Islands, Ciutat, Alcúdia, Maó and Eivissa?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.95.0	Thank you, Congresswoman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.96.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Member of Parliament, I am under sentence of the dramatic killings of women due to male violence. A few hours ago we knew the case of Saint Perpetua; more so with the aggravating that the attacker had an order to stay. Therefore, all my support for the family, for the victims, and for the compromise not to lower the guard in order to eradicate this chakra. Do they ask me if I know you? In soc perfectly familiar, of the claim, of the origin of the problem, of the managements that are being made, of the role of the State and of which it would probably have to be a formula to find a solution that reconciles interests sufficiently extended that there is in play at these moments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.97.0	Thank you, President. I've got the word Mrs Vehi.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.98.0	Thank you, President. I look, President, at the conflict between the workers and, in this case, the European institutions or the royal decree. Miri, on October 5, 2016, a motion against the CETA treaty was approved in this Parliament. Paradoxically, last week in the European Parliament, against this motion approved in this chamber, the CETA deal was approved with votes in favour of its party, that of the People's Party, that of Ciutadans and that of the PSC. CETA – because I assume that all Members are not on the case – assumes to accept trade and investment legislation in which multinationals can denounce states in private arbitration courts. What this actually means is to leave the principle of sovereignty to no effect. President, your party voted in favour of CETA; as you focus on the contradiction of wanting to build sovereignty by mediating the break with the Spanish State with the mark of treaties like CETA, which precisely dismantles the sovereignty of states in favour of benefits and the investments of multinational corporations?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.99.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Vehi. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.100.0	Thank you very much. Mrs Vehi, for what she does to the stoves, I would say that the problem is not so much European law or the feelings of European justice but how the Spanish State interprets and can read this, among other things because – and this is not a date I make up – the Spanish State is one of the most incomplicable states of European feelings. So, the problem is not here. In what way does the State understand that it has to resolve a conflict in which it is, believe me, difficult to separate clearly who they are, who has all the reason and who does not have it? I propose one thing, and the Spanish government thinks it would be good to listen to it, apart from many doses of listening: do you know what the ports think of this? Can we trust knowledge and hold the port to a responsibility that sadly still the Spanish system does not hold them to manage a serious conflict like that of the estiba? We are supporters of this, and we are very afraid, however, that, as the Spanish government is used to doing, it can pull for the right and generate a conflict there where many do not want it to follow. For what CETA does, Mrs Vehi, I suppose you won't want us to evaluate who voted for it, who voted for it and who voted against it, because the vote against this deal has made strange travel companies, because the National Front were voting for exactly what you claim is that this government or that parties that support the government vote without. What are we always saying? What are we always saying? For us the European Union's rules of play are a course of conduct and a full course of action that we will observe, observe and observe. We will not be among the list of the most incomplicable states of European standards, as is the Spanish State.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.101.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about the situation of patients in public hospitals and pressure parties for state structures]] [[317-00117/11]] Eleventh question to the President of the Generalitat, addressed to Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.102.0	Thank you very much, President. President, I will not talk to you about the monotheme, I will talk to you about the real problems that Catalans have, and about a problem as real as that of public sanitation and how it is affecting Catalans. On the day before yesterday, 250 people, 250 patients of the public health of hospitals around Barcelona, were literally drawn in letters in passes because they had no place on a plant of the public hospitals of Barcelona. Yesterday there were 210, the patients, all Catalans, who were drawn by passers-by in place of being in the plants and ates as corresponding. It is shocking, Mr President, that as this passes to public sanitation we have plants of hospitals that are closed because there is no presumption and in change I do have 120_million euros to allocate them to the structures of the state. Mr President, are you prepared to have these 120_million euros earmarked for vagina state structures to open plants in public hospitals in Barcelona and Catalonia?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.103.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.104.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Albiol, I think you've heard me say more than once – today I will reiterate – that sanitation is a state structure. So, if I ask you to remove the structures of the state, I'm convinced that you don't have to ask me to remove the sanitation. But it is true that from among its group there are very powerful people who have claimed more than once to carry this system of salvation, who, for another band, rejoice, let me thus hate, of good salvation, above all considering those who are the main beneficiaries, who are the citizens.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.105.0	Thank you very much, President. There's a word from Mr. Xavier García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.106.0	Mr. President, who was carrying the public health system were some company or ex-partners of your party who were stealing the money from public health. [[Greetings.]] These are the ones who carry public sanitation. And public sanitation, a summer structure? I wish you were right. But when I'm talking about state structures, Mr President, I'm talking about the money they're going to give to the reference, to the information of the process, to all this..., to the subsidies, to water the social entities that they support in this project; listening, for example, to Mr. Vidal, who came out here, who said there were 400_million hidden, also, for the independence process. Therefore, Mr President, money is being spent on all Catalans, money is being spent on schools, money should be spent on schools, money should be spent on children who are studying in barracks instead of schools on condition that there are no schools built, money should be spent on the independence process. From the People's Party of Catalonia we would like to urge you to give priority, we would like to ask you that it is dedicated to attend to what are the real problems that Catalans have. And above all that governments, that governments once and for all put the members of their government to order, that lacks it and that we would like it the conjunction of Catalans. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.107.0	Thank you, Congressman. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.108.0	Yes, Mr Albiol, it seemed to me to feel him, from his keys– you said, "I wish, I would say" so much good – "So much good was sure that sanitation was a structure of state. I'll buy it. I also: so good we can have a state in which sanitation can be a structure... I invite you to participate, precisely, in the construction of this state, in which one of the foundational pillars will be the public health system. Actually, it is, because 40 percent of the Generality's premise is devoted to salvation, directly. If he does, then we could count, indirectly – which also affects – the different assumptions that end up helping to have one of the best systems of salvation in Europe. That's as much as it is, or despite the funding that I'm talking about in general Catalonia and in particular sanitation. Because you should know – and if you don't, you should have explained it – about the chronic, historical, poor funding deficit in Catalonia's health care system, and that despite this historical – chronic deficiency in Catalonia's health care system, despite that, it is an excellent system. Because there are some excellent professionals, because there are some good equipment, because there is a good management of the public system, because there is a good confluence between public and private management and because there is a citizen consensus in which way we have to organize salvation in Catalonia, which has been working for many years, even in the years when the Spanish government held all the competition and left the citizens of Catalonia with the trait that they were delivering in the matter of salvation. Believe me, you have to sort between those who want to blow up the system of salvation, between those who want to finance it badly, between those who deny it the subsistence and those who want it to be converted into a real state structure, from the means that correspond to a state structure, which is a state. If you, as you said before, are sincere – you say that "so good are you sure that sanitation was a state structure – I invite you to work with this government to make it possible together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.109.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the dual language and the ambivalent position of the Government in relation to the process of independence and disobedience in the State]] [[317-00119/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.110.0	Thank you very much, President. Most honorable, you see, your government has long multiplied what we might say in contradictory announcements: one day they tell us that they respect the law in force and then they announce our disobedience, they make promises of stability and at the same time they say they are preparing mysterious plans for rupture. President, do you have any idea how to get out of this ambivalence, how to get out of this double language that characterizes your government's speech? Because one day that's gonna be over.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.112.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, in any case, should accompany his statements, so round, of contradictory announcements, announcements of disobediences, proclamations of instability but mysterious plans, facts and reality. Because of this government – of me, as president, of the councillors, of the vice president – you will never hear that we have an agenda of disobedience, but of explicit obedience to this Parliament of Catalonia. And the question we all have to ask ourselves is whether or not we are obedient to what the Catalan Parliament says? Because that's not a double language, it's a single language, and it's said here, in public, it's said to Madrid, privately, or it's said to the communication media; one way to hear things. Do you think you are obedient to what this Parliament of Catalonia approves, yes or no? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.113.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.114.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, listen, as a double language and as ambivalence, the list would be long. Look, just start the legislature, you have adopted a resolution in which you are committed to ignoring the Constitutional Court; then you have not stopped sending appeals to the Constitutional Court. You have said that you are a rebel before the injustices of the Spanish State, and are the most disciplined deserters of Montoro in fiscal matters. They speak of disconnection and vote resolutions of disconnection, but Romanesquely bereaved, fiercely bereaved, to the Autonomous Liquidity Fund and seem to even be interested in the future of the Bank of Spain. [[Rialles.]] In the early morning they proclaim the firm will to respect the laws, but to make themselves dark, therefore, it seems to be that they have enough success the messages of Mr. Vidal. And let's say one thing in parentheses: the problem is not what Mr. Vidal says, the problem is that during the months you have allowed a senator to explain that the Government of Catalonia is a glue of hackers and delinquents! [[Rialles.]] And you don't have the right to allow the institution you represent to be flushed by the fang in this way, you don't have the right. By day they meet with businesspeople from Toulouse de Llenguadoc, or here Mr Junqueras, in Barcelona, with..., and promise them order and stability; but they tell us that on the evening they are preparing some laws, of hope, of disconnection, that they do not know how they will be, neither if they are presented, nor how they are presented, nor what they are actively tending. They meet with unions, with associated movements, with venereal entities, with civil society entities, with political forces and sign a pact for a referendum with the State, and only exit the announcement meeting that they will organize one on their own when they convince them. If that's not ambivalence, listen, do 'homira' – do 'homira'. It's not us who bring back the government that has secret contacts with the Spanish government. We would like you to be talking to the Spanish government every day. But they don't muddle – they don't muddle – they stop playing shepherds, they don't mess with public opinion! [[Rialles.]] It's no shame you're talking to Mr. Rajoy! They have to argue, it's their deure – it's their deure. Why do they explain one thing to public opinion and do another? [[Some applause.]] Look, what can't be there now is submissive...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.115.0	Mr. Rabell, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.116.0	So, this... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.117.0	It's run out of time, please... [[Some applause.]] The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.118.0	Mr. Rabell, are you asking us to remain irresponsible? Is that what you're asking for? Are we asking ourselves to have an irresponsible presuppositional policy and to present a whole series of issues – cards to the King – that would bring this government and this presupposition to failure? – that it is in fact that his group puts the papers in the presupposition. Is that what you're asking for? We won't do that. It's more, that, said so, it's said here or to Linguadoc's Toulouse or what it takes, before entrepreneurs, before politicians, before unions, with the same clarity. This government is not an irresponsible government. Second, this government is working. And it naturally works with the sole purpose of helping to create the conditions for the citizens of this country to have opportunities and to have a future; not to make the living of the present and" now say one thing here, because it is asking me that, and there is another; now I participate in this meeting, but counting on what tomorrow is, it is not a case that you compromise me greatly. You did not hear the words that I said here on the day of..., in which I said: "Or referendum or referendum? Didn't you see what we voted for, the Junts for the Yes Group, also that Parliament, in the House of Commons, of the general policy debate? We also voted that there was the possibility of, if not the possibility of a reference granted, also paying attention to the mandate of the Parliament of Catalonia to hold a reference. Have you seen me deviate from these commitments at any time? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, It's more, I honor this commitment, and I honor it as much as it is in public as it is in private. And I don't have a double language, on the contrary. Maybe the problem is this, and maybe the problem is that it's not a post-truth problem, it's a prediction problem. Because you have helped to help create a _framework according to which this government does not engage in dialogue, and now you are ecstatic because you see that the government engages in dialogue. Now, about what? So, about what the people of Catalonia want to talk about, which is to vote for. And you should begin to understand that the way to respect the decisions of the people of Catalonia is to complete them; don't let them see that they share them, but when it's time for the truth to fail. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.119.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the preparations and actions of the Government to celebrate the referendum]] [[317-00118/11]] He asked the president about the political situation. The question is posed by Mr Miquel Iceta of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.120.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. President – and further to the previous question – you have undertaken to call a reference on independence, as it was very late in September. As it is clear that it will not be a given reference, it will be a reference out of legality. Could you tell me what are the preparations your government is making to be faithful to your commitment?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.121.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.122.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, I know that you know a lot of things, and even more, that you don't know, in the gallery in Madrid when you made conferences. Do you know there won't be a given reference? Do you already know the answer to a proposal that has not yet been formulated? I am not; I am a little more modest than you, and therefore what I will do will faithfully complete the task I have of this Parliament, that it is not a suspicious task, a task I have of this Parliament, to try everything so that there is a reference granted. What I ask is, because this is possible, that you, instead of dedicating yourself to the bulldozer, are dedicated to pedaling to get it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.123.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.124.0	Apart from making it clear that it bothers you that Catalans know what it does in private, what we should do is talk about the question that brings us here today. And this is it: if there is a reference granted, then the same Constitutional Court says that if it is to be a reference on independence, which is the reference to which you have committed yourself, there must be a preliminary reform of the Constitution. We know, and you don't stop saying it, that you don't agree with the Government of Spain; now we know that you have talked about it, and I celebrate it – and the more there should be, and the more results there are, the better – but it's obvious that you won't agree on a reference to independence. And you, despite everything, say you're still working on it. The only one who asks him, as representing the people of Catalonia, is to know what his government is doing to prepare for what it has bought itself, what they are actually doing because, as late in September, he makes a reference to independence in Catalonia; it seems to me that it is not much to ask. It's true that from their group maybe someone will come out who will ask the president tomorrow to explain what the opposition has to ask or not ask, or they can ask or not ask [[applause]] But that's not it. We have all the right of the world to know what their government is doing to prepare a reference to the month of September. And you've agreed to do it. I. when very little information is given to us, it turns out that the very reports of the Generality are already pointing out that the reference to which you have committed yourself is not possible with the law in force, and, therefore, would have to produce a constitutional reform which does not seem to be moving badly, I must say. And it seems to me that the clock would still give me some time. But, President, the question is the following: [[relays]] : what is your government doing to prepare the September referendum? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.125.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.126.0	Thank you very much. Mr. Iceta, you know that when we say that we did not intend to negotiate on behalf of the Spanish State the call for a referendum, we say so with knowledge of the case. You also know that when we say that we are willing to engage in dialogue, we do so with knowledge of the cause, and that when we complain that the other gang – not just in the Spanish government, but in opposition – there is no democratic conviction at all to engage in dialogue on this – I no longer say to agree: to engage in dialogue on this – we are telling the truth with knowledge of the cause. And you know it – and you know it. So, what is this government doing? - What's he doing? Comply with your commitments. What's his immediate commitment? What is the compromise you have with the National Referendum Pact? What's the compromise you have with this chamber? To organize a referendum that can be agreed upon with the State. You must be able to talk about this, right? Therefore, we can do..., we are trying to make possible what we believe with deep conviction, and it is that the ideal solution of the chronic conflict between Catalonia and Spain and the mistreatment that Catalonia claims on behalf of the Spanish Government is to vote. This is a stadium that his party overcame a few years ago, but sad to say, it wasn't long ago, when he saw that we were really going. But it's about this, it's about going, it's about going, it's not about the lighthouse. And I can say with more or less clarity, I insist, I can tell all the interlocutors that I have an interest in listening to it, but what we have also found a good season ago is that, from interest to listen to this, there is no; no proposal for negotiation, neither now nor in the past; will of dialogue, neither now nor in the past; in no format, of anything else. And, believe me, far from being the confirmation of what many think and what many have led them to believe that the only possibility is independence, I say this with sadness, because it is a demonstration that the democratic capture of the Spanish State is very worrying, and that should be worrying not the Democrats here, but the Democrats there.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.127.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generalitat about contacts with the Government of Spain and the statements of ex-Santiago Vidal]] [[317-00116/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the political situation. The question is posed by Mrs Inés Arrimadas, from the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.128.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, in recent days there has been a lot of information that generates in many Catalans reasonable doubts about what you are doing or what your Government is doing. That's why I want to give you a chance to clarify and explain. Do you undertake as President of the Generalitat to appear in Parliament to explain what contacts you are having with the Government of Spain? And does he also undertake to appear in Parliament to explain the serious accusations made by Mr Vidal, which directly affect his Government? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.129.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.130.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mrs. Arrimadas, where were you when this Parliament voted a moment ago? Because I assume that to the one who votes in this House precisely the proposal you have to import it. What happens, what does it matter when the vote is in favour of your interests and you don't think you respect when the vote is not in favour of your interests? So, look, this Parliament has decided something sovereignly, which I am obviously thinking of doing as much honor as anything that this Parliament decides. Secondly, when these negotiations with the Spanish Government are produced, which have not occurred or are occurring at these times, obviously, all the information will have to hold it, starting with this Parliament; but... – and I say it with sadness as I have previously assigned to Mr Iceta – these negotiations are neither there nor, for what it seems, nor are they expected.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.131.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.132.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Puigdemont, every day you remind me more of Rajoy, who doesn't like to give explanations. [[Widow's remorse.]] What we are asking you to do is to overcome the luxuries of transparency demanded by your fellow Members of the parliamentary group. You can come by anytime you want. And, in fact, I say to you: we have led a committee of inquiry into the Vidal case, and we will see if you are so brave in Parliament to say what you say in your party actions. And if you have nothing to hide, come as President of the Generalitat to explain the serious accusations that directly affect your executive. Look, you don't tell the truth about the meetings you have, you don't explain the uncomfortable issues, you don't address the problems of Catalans. I'll give you an example. Citizens is the party that has presented the most social and economic proposals in this Parliament. We have put forward concrete legislative proposals on important issues such as, for example, the free use of textbooks, improved management of waiting lists or the Birth Promotion Plan. And do you know what your group has done, the one that tries to hide you from explaining? Introduce amendments in their entirety. They do not want to face the problems of the Catalans even when many of our proposals do not involve budgetary increases, but rather better management of the current budget. Look, Catalonia deserves a president who represents us all Catalans, who goes to meetings where we talk about funding or infrastructure, who faces the debates on health, education and social problems presented to him by the opposition and who does not hide and hide information about what he does or stops doing. We already know that you and you have specifically given up on this, but I am convinced that sooner than later in Catalonia there will be a president who governs us and thinks of all Catalans. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.133.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.134.0	Thank you very much. I suppose you don't have to think that when a parliamentary group, its own in this case, presents a proposal is the best and, if it doesn't approve, it's that everyone is wrong. I guess you don't have to be saying that. Do you know what the problem is with proposals? They're good or they're not good. That's the problem. And they have to admit that a proposal of theirs that doesn't prosper in the Parliament of Catalonia, so maybe it's not good enough, maybe it didn't appreciate the trust of the majority. What a thing democracy has! It turns out that the majority decide what suits or what doesn't. You should start getting used to it – you should start getting used to it – accepting the results of the polls and the results of the majority. Miri, the control session to the government and the president, the last, was characterized by why you have become the monotheme: the Vidal case. The appearance of the Vice-President, five hours and half, the same; the appearance of the Secretary of History, the same; the recurring questions that directly or indirectly do with departure, interpellations or subsequent motions, the same. And the answer is clear. He passes it as with his proposals: like they don't like what's going on, like they don't like what we answer again, it's not like someone to say, "Well, you're right. Miri, and I can hardly say it there, I will repeat what the vice president has already said, what I myself said at the last control session, what we have said again today. I'm afraid that from here to the end of the legislature that matters to Catalans for you will continue to feel the exsenator Santiago Vidal, who is the same. This government is not responsible for the opinions and assertions they make third parties, because we will spend the day responding not only to Mr. Vidal, but to some of his party or his coalition of government in Madrid, the People's Party, who also attribute things that some of them may be likely to accompany us to the court to denounce them, because I have not yet heard them condemn what you see with the Catalan operation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.135.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the escalation of threats by the State against Catalonia and the Catalans]] [[317-00120/11]] He asked the President of the Generalitat about the latest political developments. The question is posed by Mr. Jordi Turull, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.136.0	Yes, thank you very much, President. Many honourable President, at today's sitting there are many of the things that we could put together and make reference to, including some of the surprises that no one has ever mentioned. First of all, we would like to refer, yes, to the great demonstration that there was this diumenge passed through the streets of Barcelona under the slogan "We want to join in relation to refugees. We were surprised that some, therefore, in the street have, therefore, a great interest, but there they have the responsibility or refer, right? And, in this sense, we do want to value your government's yesterday's agreement, a clear and final agreement with regard to this issue that it also demonstrated, therefore, I insist, that the country has regained the best values of compromise and solidarity. We could also talk about Palma's agreement with valence governments and dance in what it supposes, so, and I can assume, a great impulse and a great projection of Catalan language and culture. We could also talk, President, about his visit to the Occitania region with his president and with business sectors, a very profitable finding, and also very sensitive and very responsive to what is happening in Catalonia and the potentialities of Catalonia. We could talk – I see that no one has mentioned it – about yesterday's agreement of the Balearic Parliament where a political and non-judicial solution was called for, therefore, to the process seen by Catalonia. We could talk about the very positive data that the Vice-President referred to earlier on in economic questions. We could talk... I'm sure each one of these themes would donate to a question. Now, they all hang up on one thing, don't they? , which is the government's ability to establish agreements and complicitys, and I see that doesn't matter. Agreed and complicitys that do not appear, so, by chance cosmic, but behind that there was dialog, there was work. In contrast to this, President, we have noticed that since there was-there was yes to the assumption, we have noticed that the level of aggression and threat on the part of the State and its surroundings, therefore, has increased greatly. Anyway, there's a story going on, and today we've seen evidence, that Catalonia has a violent environment, right? Or we've seen an editor of a diary who, to put it some way, is a person who likes to keep not knowing if the country or the country has its hands, huh? but he even started to say a series of pearls so precisely it's not to be a Nobel prize candidate for the Pau. It is for all this, President, that we want to ask him what opinion he deserves this escalation of threats and aggression from the State and its contours against Catalonia and the Catalans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.137.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Turull. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.138.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Turull, I am pleased that you have made some of the decisions that this government has made in the last few hours–hours– that show that this prediction is clearly false according to which one day it should be true that this government does not deal with the things that affect people. And it's a construction of a relationship so sexy it doesn't last a week of life. This is the government agreement that the Executive Council took yesterday in response to the demand for hundreds of thousands of Catalans that were concentrated in Barcelona. Is this demand what people are interested in or not? Was it real politics and worrying about what makes people suffer or not? So look, here's a government that in less than a week has responded, made a deal. Moreover, it is an agreement that compromises the Spanish Government, and that says to the Spanish Government: "Do you think to complete or do you not plan to complete your duere? And he said to him, and he said to him, "We shall make it complete. And we will see at that moment the Spanish Government whose position it takes when the Government of the Generalitat is compromised – because it has to do so a government that is concerned about people's problems – to complete what so many people called for. And so we could obviously talk about economic data, agreement and good will with a region like Occitania, which is hugely important for Catalonia. This triangle – Tolosa, Montpeller, Barcelona – is where an important part of European GDP is concentrated, and therefore we have every right – and we do it with great taste – to work for what people are interested in. Sadly, we're only interested in talking about Mr Vidal, and we'll find him today, we'll find him tomorrow, and so much so if Parliament dances something that honors the policies that voted for him and that promoted him, that is to appeal to the political dialogue. This government is exactly on this path: to call the political dialog, as much as it does. What matters is this dangerous journey to the limits of the democratic system's seams. This flirting every time more worrying about acts of rape, using force to suppress something as threatening as an urn, applying Article 155, requiring us to... – yesterday this same government got the fourth demand that you don't do according to what; we're on probation, for what it looks like. That's troubling – that's troubling. When a political system makes this journey so dangerous to the ends of the democratic system's seams can be petar. I would recommend them to the Spanish democrats that they help to ensure that things don't get so far and that they don't get used to naturalizing and speaking naturally of measures as exceptional as the use of force – as more than one of these people you've been thinking about – to try to suppress the demand of the people of Catalonia to vote, because we will vote, we will vote. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.139.0	Thank you, President. [[Manifestation of condolence and condemnation of male violence]] Before continuing with the Ple, and as Congresswoman Vehi announced, unfortunately, yesterday a woman died to Santa Perpètua de Mogoda as a result of male violence. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] They murdered, you're right, Congresswoman – they murdered. According to the official data of the Department of Interior and the Catalan Institute of Donations, it is the second death victim of the year for male violence in Catalonia. In the name of the chamber, I regret and condemn this crime and express my most sincere condolences to family and friends. I also reiterate Parliament's commitment to the eradication of any form of violence against women. [[Tribute in memory of former Member of Parliament Francesc Casares and Potau]] [[401-00018/11]] The second point of the order of the day is: Homage in memory of former Member Francesc Casares and Potau, who is a deputy of this chamber in the first and second legislature. I want to greet his family and the friends who accompany us, and I ask them to accept the most sincere feeling of friendship and sympathy on the part of this Parliament. Mr Miquel Iceta, president of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.140.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. And I want, in the first place, to greet the children of Francesc Casares – in Martí, Joan, Laia, Toni and Miquel – and the family and friends who today accompany us with the motto of this little tribute to who is mad in the first and second parliamentary legislature recovered Doing the necrology of a well-known and admired person is an uncomfortable honor. It's an honor because in re-honoring Francesc Casares we do an act of memory and recognition that dignifies us all folds, but it's uncomfortable because you're never quite sure you're doing justice to a good man, to a just man who comes out just as little as you qualify as a compromised person. The first thing I wanted to say was that the recollection of Francesc Casares' memory came from the parliamentary group to which he belonged, but that his political, civic and legal arrival far surpassed that represented by the PSC. And this is also a reason for pride: democracy, anti-Franchist resistance, Catalanist resistance, man of the left, labor lawyer, Europeanist, struggler for poverty, solidarity between peoples and human rights, and militants of the use of Catalan language in the field of justice. His task and his example must be remembered and honored in a comprehensive and cross-cutting way. And this is also the feeling of my intervention, of my words. Francesc Casares was born in Tarragona on 22 September 1927, the day of the raffle, as his mother did not stop saying 'himai'. And we can vouch for these and other details because in Francesc Casares we have received his memoirs in two volumes that are worth reading. The first, published for La Campana in 2006, covers the period 1927-1958, an important year, as seen, and the second, recently published for L'Avenç, runs between 1958 and 1978, ending precisely with its intense record of the socialist unity process. He was leaving us on November 16th, about twenty-nine years ago. People who take a political compromise at a certain time deserve our respect; when they do so in a context of lack of freedom, they show courage, and when the compromise is kept long, long, lifelong, we admire them. This is why they become referents, as is the case in Francesc Casares and Potau. As a master's son, it is worth remembering – as he did – that his choice for law studies had much to do with the fact that many politicians of the time were right-wing men, and Dret's faculty also began its political commitment with militancy to a clandestine organization. The year 1945 entered the Front Universitari de Catalunya. Twenty-one years ago he had an interrogation of his own. I do a little parentheses: and they hang in a room, trying to know what they did, what they didn't do, with what companies and relationships. And, curiously, and I'll be admitted to the anecdote, it's a trangol to which Carme Roca and Junyent had also passed, which was after his wife and who died on October 12, 2012 at the age of eighty-four. Llicenciat en Dret, Francesc Casares began to practice law in 1951 and specialized in labor law to defend the rights of workers, and soon also trade unionists and other victims of French repression before the disappearance of the Tribunal d'Ordre Públic. How many people didn't carry Francesc's phone if they needed it, in case of arrests with a motive for clandestine activities? He himself was hired in 1958 – that's why he said it was an important year – because of a major fall of activists from the Socialist Movement of Catalonia. He participated in the Assembly of Catalonia, in the impulse of Socialist Convergence of Catalonia, the PSC-Congress, the Party of Socialists of Catalonia PSC-PSOE and the UGT of Catalonia. He was an activist of the Association for the United Nations in Spain, which he chaired from 1987 to 1996. He also chaired the Catalan Federation of NGOs for Human Rights and the Catalan Association of Jurists in Defense of Own Language. He was a member of the Board of Labour, Economic and Social of Catalonia and member of the board of directors of the Institute for Social Reinsertion. He won the Primera de Maig prize with the commitment of the foundations Rafael Campalans and Josep Comaposada, the Creu de Sant Raimon de Penyafort the year 1989, the Medal of Honor of the Coll·legi d'Avocats and the Creu de Sant Jordi in 2004, the Medal to the Merit of the Work President Macià in 2008 and, finally, and to the postum title, the Prize of Justice 2016. Probably in Francesc it was strange that in his memoir he highlighted prizes and medals, which he deserved with all justice, but I believe that in a necrological one taken before the plenary of the Parliament of Catalonia they help us all folds to capture the abst of his commitment and of his ingent pocket. For the socialists, his figure will always be strictly linked to Joan Revontos' record. They were friends and companions of a lot of fights. As is well known, Joan Revontos proposed him to be a candidate for mayor of Barcelona and Francesc declined the offer because he felt he was more likely to follow as a labor lawyer. He did accept later to be a Member of Parliament for two legislatures, and seems to be obliged to do something about his parliamentary trajectory collected in the session logs. In the first legislature, president of the Commission of the Status of Deputies until 83; member of the Commissions of Justicia, Dret and Seguretat Ciutadana; of the Rules of Procedure; of Alta Muntanya; of the Organization and Administration of the Generality and Local Government, and secretaries of the Commission of Investigation on the Assault and the Secret of the Central Bank of Barcelona, the first commission of investigation created in this Parliament in 1980. In this first legislature I actively intervened as a socialist, among other questions, in the removal of limitations to the rights of women that are still collated to the compilation of the special civil law of Catalonia, also in relation to private foundations, professional colleges, in the law created by the police of Catalonia and in which the coordination of local police was established. Also in countless proposals of law on the rights of former political prisoners, on prisons, on the granting of indult to Xavier Vinader, on the right to express in Catalan in services dependent on the direction of security of the State to Catalonia. In the second legislature his parliamentary activity was as intense as the member of the Commission of Justice, Right and Security of the citizen; that of the syndic of Greuges; the Commission of Investigation of Games managed by the Generality, and the Commission of Study on the Bosses of Poverty. They put socialist laws as important as the protection of minors; the creation of the Police School; the College of Journalists; and the reform laws of Article 6 of the Civil Law of Catalonia, the Law of Reform of Legal Reservations and the Law of Intested Succession, which laid the foundations for the renewal of the Catalan Civil Law, and in proposals of law on the decriminalization of amortization, the condemnation of racism in South Africa, solidarity with the Ibero-American peoples under dictatorial regimes, conscientious objection, organization of judicial demarcations, etc. 1988 leaves the escho and represent, with all the help, his career path, which he had never abandoned at all on the other side, and increases his commitment to advocacy organizations and human rights with democratic lawyers and also with compromises with the impulse of Catalan language in the legal world. Nor does it flow into its militant commitment and agrees to captivate the Socialist Left current of Catalonia with which it established good relations with the motive of its clinging opposition to the continuity of Spain to the Atlantic Alliance. I didn't always agree with your party, we remember it well. I the record perfectly defending in a strong way his 'no to NATO at the fourth congress of the PSC celebrated the year 1984. And in a publication of Barcelona's PSC of that year he gave an old recommendation from Sèneca as part of his conference. And it's a recommendation, it's a Seneca phrase that I'm perfect with; say, "You have a great thing to do always like the same man. That's what he's been doing all his life. That's why we respect him, we admire him, and he's had a referendum for a lot of people. Always the same man, always the same promise. He never failed his own, or the workers, or the socialists, or his country. If you have to sort a _only word to define it will sort it authenticated. For him socialism was socialism, not an empty routine label of content, as he sometimes reminded us, finally, with a certain point of excarnation. And I quote his definition of socialism: "The collective appropriation of production media, economic planning, the assumption by political spring workers and the assumption of a self-management model of civic and labour relations. So he understood socialism and always defended it, inside and outside the PSC. He warned us in 2011: "We have accepted the disnaturalization of our socialist project, more concerned to find a program at the mid of a majority that is not, as it should be, looking for a majority for our program. It was authentic, of one piece, always the same man. In one of his last articles I've garbelled it's proven that he never lowered the guard. It is about an article published in El País that carries with it the title "The destruction of the labor law, warning against the hard setback that his judgment implied the later labor reform, and recalling his commitment against the flexibility of the labor market and the deregulation of labor relations. He said: "If the rights are standards, what the government is doing is destroying with this reform a part of the legal system established democratically and consolidated after years of sacrifice and social strife. Freedom and social justice are the ideals that presided over Francesc Casares' entire life. Their loyalty to these two causes defines a life of compromise, a compromise that lags behind their time and their country. And let me just recall his words; he said, "I don't know people who are willing to advise anyone, and I don't know what to say. More recently, I am a supporter of preaching by example. However, in order not to go through an old man's regant that he refuses to speak, I would like to tell the young man today that they don't stop being young or so lonely when they're old. That is to say, to take the compromise from now on to keep the same unselfish and generous ideas that can now hold for ever more. That his memory always accompanied us. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.141.0	I want to say hello again and thank the family's presence in this act and reiterate the condolences of this chamber. And I also invite you to keep a minute of silence in memory of Congressman Francesc Casares Potau. [[The chamber serves a minute of silence.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.142.0	Well, we're still on the order of the day. [[Draft law on urgent measures in the field of public procurement (debate of totality)]] [[200-00009/11]] The third item on the agenda is the debate on the draft law on urgent measures in the field of public procurement. In accordance with Rule 114(2) of the Rules of Procedure [[remorse of the voice]] – and while they are silent – presents the initiative on behalf of the Government of the Generality the Honourable Counsellor Mr Raül Romeva. [[Widow's remorse.]] When you're ready, counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.143.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, let's talk about the things that I think deserve attention, among other things because they manifest that this government – and also this Parliament, with its majorities – went to work and came absolutely convinced to solve some of the issues that, structurally, we need to face. In fact, a few months ago I came to present – concretely, in July – before this Parliament the first law entirely dedicated to the public contract promoted by the Government of the Government of Catalonia and, in fact, as you know and remember, was Decree Llei 3/2016, of 31 May, of urgent public contract measures. Certainly, it was an urgent law – that's why we did it with the format we did it, with a decree – by means of which we started a legislative block in the matter of public contract with the aim of promoting transparency, integrity, simplification and corporate social responsibility. This decree law, which was validated by the Parliament for its processing as the draft law – in fact, is what we are doing today –, the return to present, moreover, with the addition that today we can explain some of the things that we have already begun to do, some of the measures that we have already begun to push and that complement it. As I explained in July 2014, the year 2014 saw the adoption of the names ‘fourth-generation European directives on public procurement, which have, in fact, led to a paradigm shift in the measure that, for the first time, the European law envisages public procurement as a strategy to promote sustainability, social responsibility, innovation and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. The application of these directives to all administrations in Catalonia has become an essential necessity. Notwithstanding this, the Spanish State did not last long after its transposition within the two-year deadline, generating doubts in economic operators, public administrations and all public contract agents. For this reason, the urgency of the adoption of Decree Law 3/2016, which provided Catalan administrations with a clear and stable legal framework for the application of public procurement guidelines. Let us not forget that public procurement is a very complex and risky area, from the point of view of fraud and corruption, in which very diverse and often counterposed interests converge. And, therefore, it is essential to have clear and well-known rules of the game for all actors to intervene. It should be noted at the moment that the Spanish State has already sent to the Congress of Deputies the draft law transposing these directives – later, but it has done so – and that its processing has begun. This obviously implies a change in the screenplay. But, also, this change of scene..., the Catalan law of public contract in which it will convert this draft law continues to be necessary in the measure that develops the competences attributed to the Generality in the matter of accordance with Article 159.3 of the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia for the development of the state bases. As I have already indicated in my previous appearance, the Decree Law 3/2016 corresponds to a double objective. In the first place, insist on a fundamental aspect, legal certainty, as well as transparency and promotion of competition in the purchase of goods and services by the Catalan public administrations. The second objective is to enhance public procurement as a social transformation strategy with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, corporate social responsibility and sustainability. For what it does to the first objective, I will highlight, of the most important measures, two. Firstly, the abolition of the negotiated procedure by reason of the amount and, therefore, the reduction of direct and unadvertised tendering procedures, in line with the European directives and the Commission's decision of 2 August 2016. The second of the important measures is the promotion of the use of the open procedure in the public contract by means of the regulation of simplification and efficient management measures that allow the award of a contract within the maximum of one_month. For what he does to the second objective, what he has to see, as he said earlier, with the strategy of social transformation, three measures that I think are worth highlighting. The future Catalan law favours, in the first place, the access of the small and medium-sized enterprise to public contracts and establishes the general rule of the division of contracts into smaller batches, so that they do not always remain in the hands of large enterprises, reversing the general rule in force. It's not a minor issue. The second measure. The future Catalan law encourages responsible contracting to include a system of value for offers that takes into account what we call, what we call, what we think is the life cycle of the goods and services; it means that it also includes environmental and social costs in the production of goods and services, and not just – and not just – its price. I, third measure, absolutely decisive, also, the simplification of the documentation to be provided by the bidders through the implementation of the single European contract document, the DEUC. Therefore, it is measures that I feel deserve, I believe, special attention and that have already been incorporated, in fact, into the Law on the Amendment of the Law on Contracts of the State Public Sector which is being processed in the Congress of Deputies, for which, I repeat – let us say to ourselves – that the Catalan Law project has been a pioneer in its introduction. Moreover, in the recent motion 87/XI of the Parliament of Catalonia, on the competitiveness of the Catalan company, approved for this Parliament on the 26th of January, the Government of the Generality expressly insists on taking some of these measures, such as the division into lots of the contract, which we already have in force, thanks to Decree Ill 3/2016, since June 3, 2016. So, he's doing the job, he's doing better, and he's doing more than anyone else that he should have done the job, too. Finally, and in relation to the content of the bill, I will also refer to the figure of the names' concessions. And here I'll be particularly blunt. In the presentation in this Parliament of the law decree, special attention was paid to the nameless figure of the concession as many services as it works, since the law decree incorporates as a suitable element of the contract the transfer to the concessionaire of the operational risk. This means, quite simply, that the dealer exploits a service or a work at his or her own risk, without the Administration guaranteeing him or her the recovery of his or her investment. This is the concession that governs the European right and that, if it had been applied before in this country, we would have saved a lot of money for the history and the citizen, as is the sad and unfortunate case of the Castor case or the Madrid radials, just to cite a few examples. Finally, I leave a brief comment on the social concertation model provided for in the third and fourth additional provisions of the bill. These provisions also regulate, in accordance with the European directives, the anonymous model of the provision of social and occupational services not subject to the contractual regime; that is, the provision through direct financing of public administrations with control and public access. The need for this regulation also stems from the profound change in the model of service concession contract introduced by the European law, for which we are obviously responsible, also subsidiary. And we have to say that our model of social concertation has also been incorporated in terms very similar to other communities such as Galicia, the Balearic Islands or Aragó. Finally, this draft law that is being processed today is not urgent and forms part of a package of contractual legislative measures that are committed to promoting a new model of public procurement based on transparency, integrity and corporate social responsibility. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.144.0	Thank you, Counselor. In this draft of the law there was presented a statement to the totality, with alternative text. In order to present it, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, the honourable Member Marina Bravo has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.145.0	Thank you. Members, Members, Councillor, again many things have been raised here, the same thing that was done when the decree was already presented, and, again, we believe that the key here is not in what is said but in what is not said. It's been half a year since we've been debating... well, we've been voting here for the validation of the bill presented. We voted no. And I remind you a little of the reasons why we voted no. First of all, by form; because the executive had issued a rule with a law rank without having previously allowed parliamentary debate or prior authorization from Parliament. And in order for this to be justified, which may have been possible, we would have needed an extraordinary and urgent need which we believe was not being given; that is, the possibility of debate and amendment was restricted without sufficient exceptionality. Secondly, because many of the articles proposed by the decree, we believe directly that they are not in conformity. If this amendment as a whole does not go ahead, we will try to correct those points with amendments to the joint text. But we still believe that they should not be in force, and the decree that he achieved is that they were already in force from that moment on. That is why we are voting against validation and why we are presenting an alternative text today. And thirdly, and not least, it is because we believe that this bill gives more wings than it should to discretion and that it facilitates misunderstandings, friendships and inefficiencies; worse still, it abuses formulas that are outside the Public Sector Contracts Act and European directives, contrary to what it should be. Look, we're not talking about any minutes. According to the report of the Directorate-General for Public Procurement itself, public procurement may cover up to 35 or 40 per cent of the budget of the Catalan administrations. It's a huge figure. And, with such great scope, the consequences of any small inefficiency, of any small fissure in the mechanisms that have to guarantee competitiveness, are very serious. Not getting the best contracts – and I don't always mean the cheapest ones – can translate into a waste of several billions a year; several billions, just in Catalonia. The fact is, moreover, that you have already mentioned this, that this debate is taking place here while a new bill, precisely public sector contracts, is being dealt with in Congress; a bill that we believe is very much better – there we are going to put forward more than a hundred amendments. In the Congress, in that debate, which has a few points in common with this one, my colleague Fernando Navarro, who participated there, said that political irresponsibility and bad legislation, when they coincide, are a fatal cocktail. Well, here 3 percent and the like tell us every day that political irresponsibility is there; that political power has reached public procurement and that amigoism and corruption are present. One of the two ingredients we already have. So we have an obligation to act conscientiously on the other of the ingredients, which is the legislation, curbing the possibilities of corruption, neutralising any possible political irresponsibility. And, actually, we don't think this bill will. That is why we propose a completely alternative text, which, as no one will be missed, also intends to leave aside all those points that might conflict with the Public Sector Contracts Act that is in Congress. Because it is paradoxical: part of the justification for the presentation of this decree as a decree law was justified on the basis that they need to provide legal certainty for the contracts they have in place, and yet with the entry into force, we believe that what it does is precisely the opposite. The directives were already mandatory and could be implemented without further regulation. We too are aware that a more concrete and secure framework is needed in public procurement, but that is why we have facilitated in Congress the processing of the contract law that has to regulate it and we have tabled amendments that we believe can improve it. However, here, in this Parliament, there are parts of the parliamentary group..., the Republican Left Parliamentary Group in Congress has not exactly facilitated that this recruitment process of..., the Public Sector Contracts Act comes forward. We complain that we do not have a law, but there we do not even vote in favour of its continuation. The solution is not in passing the decree-law that is presented here with the excuse of giving legal certainty, because what is achieved with it is precisely the opposite. Since May of last year they may be formalizing contracts or concerts or establishing extensions or modifications or extensions of terms that end up being non-compliant; small and medium-sized companies or entities may be working on the basis of rules of the game that may later not be good. And that's a risk we should never be forcing them to take, because legal uncertainty always pays the weakest. It does not harm any minister, nor does it harm any court; it harms small and medium-sized enterprises to which the legislation would precisely have to guarantee such security. And with the approved text they do not guarantee the legal certainty of anyone, no; quite the contrary. Without going further, the competing doubts that already exist, which are already manifested, have brought this decree to the Generalitat-State Bilateral Commission to resolve the discrepancies. And I don't think this caught them by surprise. That is why, as I said, we are proposing an alternative text that seeks to put aside anything that may conflict with the Public Sector Contracts Act, and that focuses, as an alternative, on establishing mechanisms aimed at preventing fraud and preventing all those conducts that may enter into the broad concept that we call corruption. I present a little, then, the alternative text that we propose. Firstly, we want to focus on placing a permanent focus on one of the weaknesses of the recruitment mechanisms, which are the conflict of interest situations in which the people involved in these procedures can be found. We want to avoid the harm that can be done. We have to stop seeing in the newspapers how those who have the power to hire can get those contracts to end up in the hands of their own company or their brother's company or one of their friends. Secondly, we want to introduce a tool that is also necessary for this prevention of new cases: training. The Administration of the Generalitat de Catalunya must specifically train its staff in order to prevent and treat possible irregularities. Officials who face recruitment procedures every day not only need to know who the rules are, but we must also give them tools, we must facilitate them to get specific skills focused on preventing conduct that can lead to fraud and corruption. And, thirdly, a second tool, which seems to us even more powerful and necessary: protection; the protection of all those who have raised the voice, of those who denounce and of those who make it difficult for those who want to jump under the laws, who sometimes face real calvary. In the same vein, in the area of the protection of whistleblowers, there, in Congress, the comprehensive law against corruption and the protection of whistleblowers, promoted by our own group there, was accepted. One of its keys is precisely the introduction, for the first time in legislation, of specific measures to protect complainants in cases of corruption, which are sometimes genuine heroes. The text also includes other articles, other important issues, such as the prohibition of pardons to those convicted of corruption, the criminalization of the crime of illicit enrichment, the elimination of obstacles such as time limits in judicial investigation or the responsibility of political parties and trade unions; a subsidiary responsibility that must be borne in cases of corruption, so that, until the last euro is returned to the citizens and that, in this way, they are the first to be interested in combating corruption. We hope that in all this we will be supported there, in Congress, and here, in Parliament, the protection of the complainant we propose in the alternative text is fundamental already today, with dozens of open cases and new ones, which we hear every day. Citizens need to know that, who raises the voice to defend the general interest, it is the hero, and that he will be protected, and that whoever has attacked the general interest is the villain, and that is the one who will be punished. Because we don't want to wake us up every morning with a new case of corruption. And here we have an opportunity to move forward in this direction. So we hope you will support this initiative. Thank you. [[Some applause.]] - No, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.146.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. It is the turn that the parliamentary groups fix their position and, in the first term, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, has the word Mrs. Alicia Romero.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.147.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members, Members..., we were debating in July 2016 of the year the law on measures for public contract passed. At that time, we were going to say various things, which I will need to repeat today, because one of the petitions made by the Socialist Group is that the decree is not validated, but that we can process it through a bill of law. It seemed to us that it was a law decree, a regulation that could be considerably improved, and therefore processing through a bill seemed much more advanced to us so that we could make the deal, so that we could improve it, so that we could cure this legal regulation. So, in this sense, we're pleased that you're here, aren't we? In addition, we already said, at that time, that the use of the decree did not seem to us to be the greatest. In fact, the Council of State Guarantees, in many opinions, but in concrete terms, in Opinion 16/2014, already says that: "The decree must be used for the impossibility of implementing a content of the regulation by means of the..., that is, the one that is impossible that, by means of the ordinary parliamentary procedure, there is a regular possibility. It would not be the case, moreover, because in this matter we are talking about, the European directives are of direct effect, they are of mandatory and direct application. And, therefore, does not call that urgency into question. So, finally, then, the government accepted that this is a scheme like the bill, and here we find ourselves. I have to say, for this reason, that from July 2016 until February, endings of fever, that today, have passed many months. If really, as the Romeva Councillor says, that we..., and we believe, the matter of public contract, for which it does not only advertising, transparency, another way to relate to the private sector that contracts with the Public Administration, the capacity for social transformation that they can have, also, these clauses, are important, what we do not understand is how we took seven months to carry this bill, which has not substantially changed. It's like, it's the same, it's the same text that turns it into a bill. It's a lot of months, it's stuck on a table, and we'd love it, too, so the government could say why we've waited so long. It could have been introduced before, and at these times it's already in processing and, at last, it's approved in short. And we say so because it would be good for this law to be approved before you finish the legislature. And as it seems that every day we're in a lot more haste and that's more to play, so these seven_months seem like they've been working really well for a good public contract law. That is what we say, that we are..., we already say at that time, in favour of this decree or this text, of the processing of this text, we disagree and we will vote carefully on the proposal that Ciutadans makes, because it seems to us that, many of the proposals or some..., go, it is not that it is a very extensive text, the one that Ciutadans presents, but one of the proposals that Ciutadans makes, could be incorporated into the processing of the law in this project. We believe that they are totally compatible, because they speak, in many cases, therefore, of elements linked to the incompatibility of the functional ones; they speak of themes of fraud or corruption, and, therefore, it seems to us that these elements could be incorporated as elements in this bill. So, to us, that we are already in favour of this being done, so, now, we will not change our position by consistency, so, our position. In any case, we believe that this bill of law will be much better. And we say it at that time and we repeat it: we will be pleased that there are appearances, that are not limited, these appearances, because it seems important to us that people who know the public contract come to give us some light on important issues. Because, if not, in the end, you can make some mistakes. We talk about some positive elements, which I want to remember; we talk, for example, so, as this public contract has to make it easier for micropimes, which are 98_percent of our economic fabric, to access the contracts of the Administration. And that means that in many cases lots have to be made that allow these companies to access the contract with contracts or smaller parts of contracts and that this allows them to access. Now we need to see how this is done. The bill of law is very shielded for what it does, therefore, to the regulation of this aspect, and it will be necessary to see if it is asked for explanatory reports, when it is not divided into lots some contracts... Or so, we think it would have to go a little further there and lower it further to the detail. It is, it is true, as with great novelty, to the transfer we make from operational risk to companies, in the case of concessions. And it seems like a good proposition, we'll say that. There are two elements that we create a few doubts and we think we're going to have to spin a little bit better here, that's when we talk about fast or faster bidding, right? The simplicity of the Administration to encourage companies not to have such a tight pocket at the time of submitting to the Administration's bid. And on this we agree, but we have to go a little bit on account, that we don't finish, so, not doing a few things, right? For example..., and it would make us get, this, an expert in law administered, tell us..., and surely, therefore, will be good to come, from the academic field, to help us, therefore, to improve this legal text, as I say, that, for example, one of the proposals that is made is that the advertising that is done by the bidder, is done only in the profile of the contractor. This seems to be that in other autonomous communities it has tried and been..., for the Constitutional Court, suspended or annulled, because one of the obligations we have – no longer only because..., for transparency, but also for publicity and to guarantee the same rights to everyone – is that, more than I can advertise, this bid, in the profile of the contractor, is also done in the official newspapers, in which you think it is appropriate, and in this case, it would be the Official Gazette of the Generality. Ull, that, sometimes, to be very agile, we don't follow transparent enough. And these are elements that we will have to measure and that will probably be better in this process. You also say this draft law that these European directives repeal management contracts, and that's not it. And, reading the report that the Contract Advisory Board made, April 6th of the year passed, so, there it also talks about that, and so we'll have to see how it's reviewed this part, so let's just take a look at it, right? And because we're still legal for what he's doing, then, away from management contracts and that has consequences for us that are important. We talk, too..., it's also about the value of the cost, of the price, in this contract, as an important element; but we think it would be useful to detail a little more, when we talk about this: it's not the same as a contract of work as a contract of service, where the workmanship, where the staff is very important, and, above all, in those contracts where the servicemanships have an intensive workmanship, so we need to review whether the price is the best value. Because there are certainly working conditions here that, if we are finally so demanding with the price, we can end up affecting the working conditions of the workers and some elements that are important that we preserve. Because if this public contract has to have a capacity to transform socially, from the point of view of sustainability, innovation, equality, or social responsibility, given by the councillor, a social responsibility that we should have towards those we contract is, precisely, worthy conditions for the workers. And so it looks like the price doesn't end up setting us a trap in this sense. Therefore, there are some positive elements, it is true, but we believe that this could be much better. We have some legal doubts in some respects, and therefore it will be worth initiating the process as soon as possible. Let us hope that the question will not fail to form itself, that sometimes we are going through it, in this Parliament, and, therefore, we can begin to work it and, so good, approve it before the end of the legislature. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.148.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Romero. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.149.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, today we are having a strange debate, certainly provided for these characteristics of the Regulation, which surely do not resolve questions that are hardly produced, which are produced rarely and which, therefore, we have not just resolved them properly. In fact, it's a debate that, purely logically, should not be produced. It must be said that, purely logically, what happens after we vote for the speech to the totality will not change anything about the current situation. The draft that we are debating, as has been said, is fruit and incorporates the text of a law decree that this Parliament has already validated and, therefore, whatever happens, this text will remain perfectly functional. And if we vote against the threat to the totality, we will pose a question on the basis of this text and incorporate the elements that surround it. And if we vote in favour, the difference is that we will make this argument with another base text, also incorporating the elements that surround them. Totally, the result, I insist, can end up feeling the same, and therefore today's debate is insubstantial. And this happens, basically, because the text that Ciutadans presents to us is not an alternative text to the approved decree: one speaks of apples, the other speaks of pears. The decree referred to measures to promote the mechanisms which introduce quality elements into public procurement processes, especially for which you serve, such as the transposition of a European directive, as has been said, and which are not only economic elements which are awarded to these services, they understand that it is necessary to value and consider all those issues which have an essentially social character. The text that Ciutadans presents, in change, despite defending in the exhibition the validity of the economic valuation – and this would mark a certain contrast –, in the article focuses on another aspect of the public contract as is the guarantee of netness and transparency in this award. Therefore, as they speak of different things, and not precisely contradictory, there are elements of both that could perfectly complement each other. Look, for us, it's clear that if we're asking that the validated decree be framed as a bill of law, they'll understand that now we don't support a goal to totality, because it would be... it's just a matter of coherence, let's just say. Just as I understand that the groups that voted in favour of this option will do the same, also for the same reason. And I want to make it clear that there are a few articles in the text that Citizens present that seem good to us, but that, I insist, they are not contradictory, in large part of the joint that today is questionable. And that, therefore, in the processing of the project, which is going to be safe, they can perfectly incorporate as additional elements. Therefore, the only thing that is happening today is that Ciutadans takes advantage of the rule to put into value a text they have prepared, which will only have this recourse. I can hardly say it there, but that's it. Perfectly legitimate, huh? , but unnecessary functional effects. In any case, we asked that it be treated as a draft law because we understand that there are shortcomings in the text of the decree and because it could be used to broaden the scope of this transposition of the concept of the directive and to talk, in general, about public contracts with social responsibility. Let me remind you of one point we raised: the object of the decree was the transposition of Directive 2014/23 of the European Parliament, which refers to how public contracts can be awarded under concession rules, and Directive 2014/24, with amendments to public contracts. Both directives, written with the most generic aim of encouraging public procurement to be an instrument that drives innovation to our businesses, the respect of the environment and the quality of services offered to citizens when contracts are awarded, above all, to people's services. And we agreed with that principle that inspired the law. Now, presented as an urgency, as it was done, and here too, we understood that only the second transitional arrangement, which enabled the extension of the services that currently provided third-sector entities, was the only one. The rest, especially the one referring to the social concert, which is one of the key elements, remained pending the rule. And, moreover, the decree intended to be more ambitious and developed, it developed, some aspects of these directives which, in our view, did not justify urgency, and which probably deserved a broader reflection, a quieter debate and a more concrete definition, given that it will precisely allow us to process it as a draft law. There were, for us, positive elements in the decree: bureaucratic simplifications, for example, or the limits of the fearsome reductions, the calculation of the environmental and energy costs in the economic calculation of the concession; and, above all, the concept of social concert for the forecasting of services, which includes a follow-up of requests for clauses and measures that the regulation in a positive sense. What do we find missing? Therefore, elements that allow the armoring of the value of quality, such as social and labor clauses that ensure that in the performance of these services you serve their quality and conditions will be by means of economic elements and to avoid the direct entry of commercial economicism into these types of services. In other words, it would be useful to ensure that the quality of the service is based on knowledge, experience and social responsibility. For example, the guarantee of the principles of transparency of equality in the treaty. Or the standard establishment for the better of the quality of the service, which is very clearly enclosed in the working conditions in which it is provided. Or, for example, the establishment of service performance control mechanisms and the establishment of quality and efficiency assessment instruments. Or, for example, the need to take into account, at the time of awarding the service, the quality, continuity, accessibility and specific needs of different categories of users, including disadvantaged and vulnerable groups. And others. And in this sense, also, recommend studying the Code of Practice in the Public Contraction of People's Services, which was signed in October 2014 for a follow-up of social entities and the Government of Catalonia, so as to implement in the form of a legal articulation some of the agreements – not all of them, some of the agreements – that it has arrived at. For example, at the time of the tender, in the content of the clauses, the professionalization of the services, the determination of the presupposition or the subrogation of the workers, if that is the case. Or, at the time of the award, the award criteria, in line with what we have been explaining, as well as in the valuation of the economic offer or the fearsome reductions. And also, in the performance of the contract, the special conditions related to the social aspects of the contract, such as employment stabilization, employment insertion, gender equality, conciliation or promotion with equality criteria. I, finally, measures to follow up on the completion of contractual obligations. They're examples. But all these are considerations that we can incorporate into the work of the police, which go in the same direction, we understand, of what the European directives intend to expose. Now, from the day we did the debate, before the summer, and we made these proposals today, there was a pair of changes that have already been mentioned, some of them. The first is that the same government has begun to publicly present the will to regulate all public contracts in a new bill that goes beyond the provision of social services, which is the centre of which this text basically speaks. And the second – it was also said – is that the Government of the State is also developing a regulation around this concept. Clearly, in the first case the government even organized a day on public contract, where above all it was talked a lot about this decree law, above all about this decree law. Therefore, we should order and optimize our legislative activity. In other words, we should decide whether we want to complete this legal framework that we now have, as decreed, with measures that regulate public contracts with a general character, as the Government wants to do, or with transparency measures, as Citizens want to do, or we limit ourselves to closing the piece that we have now opened and making a deeper debate when we know the abscess of transposition that we see from the State. This is a doubt the government has to solve, it's a dilemma, and I would very much agree that the government clarifies which one is its will. For us, and given the country's political instability, let's say it in some way, let's say, with a euphemism, we would make good, for us, the so-called better-looking Spanish bird in hand than a hundred flying and we would try to lock around the text we are talking about today all those measures that can be implemented immediately to boost that public contract is made by measuring above all the quality of the services offered, by valuing the expert and guaranteeing social responsibility, also in relation to employment, from the point of view of economicism. We, as a minimum, will work on the pose in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.150.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Vidal. The words of Ms. Esperança García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.151.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, councillors... how little I like to start an intervention with a regret. It is a pity that neither the PSC nor Ciutadans at the time decided to bring this decree law from which this bill was born to the Guarantee Board, because we would have had the certainty and the certainty to know whether what the Transparency Council precisely intended was precisely against legislating or putting more transparency into administrative contracting. We find here a bill, with a text exactly identical to what was the original law decree, and an alternative text that goes another way. That is, the first, supposedly, bill, aims to give clearer rules on transparency, advertising and limits to public procurement procedures, and the second makes a lot of reference to security controls..., that is, puts a little focus and doubt and suspicion on all public contracts in relation to alleged corruption. In fact, there are a number of directives, which have not been denied at any time, which have not been transposed. There are others that do not need to be transposed either because at twenty days they come into force directly and are directly applicable. It's obvious. And that was not done not because we have a government in Spain that does not work, but because there has been a year without government and because there have also been months and months where the opposition parties, therefore, did not allow the party that had won the elections to rule. And that is a reality and not an excuse for a bad payer, but a logical explanation for why those directives that did need to be transposed had not been made in their day, had they not? And, indeed, that deadline was exceeded. However, the situation has changed. There is now government, there is now a project and there is a project that is being debated in the Congress of Deputies, and there is also one thing that, well, the Councillor himself recognizes, but there is another new thing, and that is that there is a plan precisely referred to the European Commission last October, where there is also a sort of draft of what are going to be the legal changes that will allow measures such as – to see if it sounds like them – first, that there is no public contract that can be awarded through a negotiated process and without publicity, as the Councillor has said. We're already doing this. Secondly, that the modified ones are also published and that they can be challenged by those companies that have attended public procurement that they consider should be or may be abusive. New recruitment rules are established that will also affect parties, trade unions and employers. When you talk about the fact that there are certain offers that violate the principle of free competition and free competition between companies that go to a public tender, it is precisely a limitation of offers and reckless cuts of 2 and a half percent. A new public procurement management system will be established. In addition, in order to control control, which concerns citizens precisely and which does not seem to support the Congress of Deputies at the moment, control is to be strengthened both before and after the post of public procurement and is to be done, therefore, by providing a board, apart from the Court of Auditors, with..., i.e. all the supervisory bodies that had so far been operating, the Administrative Procurement Advisory Board is to be given the task of drawing up a national supervisory plan. A national plan that is also coordinated with the rest of the administrations, and with an evaluation office to ensure that all public contracts are financially sustainable and that they do not impose a burden on the future in case of non-compliance or new circumstances, as happened – this will also sound to the advisor, because he has also said so – with the contract so badly negotiated by the Socialists of the Castor project. Improvements and facilities are also introduced for access to SMEs, so that SMEs can also compete when hiring with the Administration. And it also penalizes late businesses, which sometimes are not exactly the big ones, but the SMEs, is it not? Environmental quality standards and social standards are also introduced to assess offers, i.e. not only the economic criteria. All of this – all of this – is already being processed in the Congress of Deputies. All this will be common basic rules for all public contracts in all administrations once it is ratified not only in Congress, but also applicable in the autonomous communities and in the municipalities, which will also have vetoed this possibility of using negotiated contracts without advertising. Therefore, if all this, which is the common margin, the common basic regulation for all, is already in progress in the Congress of Deputies and, therefore, the most likely is that, above amendment, amendment below, and opposition or not of the parliamentary group – separately – of Convergence and Republican Left, which of course there in Madrid, in the Congress, oppose to introduce these variables, even though they take the view that they are pioneers in this draft law where these measures are included, then the normal thing is that it comes into force and that this presupposes the common regulation. Therefore, we do not understand why we have to vote on a bill that comes to practically repeat, to copy what is already under way in the Congress of Deputies. And we find it very difficult to oppose the alternative text, even though it does not have much to do with the bill or with the original law decree, because it gives us the impression that it is a little bit like that of the finger that covers the sun, right? Therefore, it is very difficult for this alternative text to amend what is a bill that is now in the phase of presentation, in the phase of appearances, but that has very clear elements of unconstitutionality, because it invades competences and because, however much it has been said here that other communities have made and drafted laws like this, it is true that there is a project, precisely, made by the community of Aragon, that there is also a ruling already from the Constitutional Court that makes jurisprudence, where they say that, well, one of the issues that is facilitated to the autonomous communities is to develop that legislation that is already common. Since the common rules to be laid down and adopted by the Congress of Deputies, which has already been referred to the European Commission and which also complies not only with the directives, but also with the Commission's recommendations, are therefore complete, we believe that, despite the fact that this vote will continue, we are wasting some time. I understand that... you like cycling so much... that of being pioneers, that of being the first, goes very well for counterclock tests, but certainly not to rule. However, we are not going to oppose the alternative text, but obviously we are going to oppose the bill.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.152.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. The words of Mr. Albert Botran, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.153.0	Well, thank you, President. Thank you to all the Members to participate in this insubstantial debate, as Mr Vidal qualified, so that we will all exhaust our two minutes, because what we say, therefore, is important, or at least so we believe. Indeed, we are again discussing the same one that we discussed in July, given the theme to the totality with alternative text that Ciutadans presents. We will repeat some of the reasons that at that time articulated our position by the mouth of the company Benet Salellas, and finally we will argue why we reject the text of Ciutadans. Some questions we raised at that time. We wanted him to be voted like the bill, which is what ended up passing, and not by decree. We also stated that it contained positive elements and pointed out some measures in the fight against corruption in a transparency clause. And he pointed out, to a lesser extent, measures to make the contract a tool of transformation, in favoring the contract of enterprises or cooperatives more responsible ecologically, with society, than not precaritzin, etc. On the fight against corruption, it is clear that public contracting and the lack of corruption controls have been at the core of most corruption schemes. And take advantage that today we are talking about this issue to keep a record for Montserrat Gassull, independent director of Torredembarra, which was, therefore, also very brave in denouncing certain patterns of corruption. In concrete terms, the link between public procurement in cases, therefore, in which concessions and over-costs, which also appeared repeatedly in the previous plenary debate on the report of the Union of Auditors and, in concrete terms, the private vote of the Pons syndicate, which could, for example, be one of the people who appeared in this proposal, in the draft law, which referred, therefore, directly, to the need for further analysis and political control of public-private operations which assume that they are due to the future. In July, the deputy of Junts per el Si Germà Bel gave some examples: the Castor, the Madrid radials, the Pertús tunnel, we could also add the Segarra-Garrigues channel, line 9 of the metro, the City of Justice. Greater control of administrative contracting is an absolute priority in the fight against corruption, with measures as envisaged by this draft law and others, such as the derivatives of the work in the study commissions that have been made on corruption or those coming from the previous legislature against evasion and tax fraud, known as the Pujol commission, for example, in which, therefore, in the conclusions of this committee, we proposed the creation of an organ that centralized the contract, carry out an appropriate follow-up of these contracts, limit the modification of contracts, increase the limitation on subcontractions and, finally, facilitate popular control in the matter of contracting. On social transformation also through contracting, another aspect that deals with the bill, the object, from our program, is that many of these public services are remunicipalized, cease to externalize, recover the public control cent_per_cent. Some things, therefore, totally coincident with the words we heard a few minutes ago in honor of Francesc Casares, huh? We are also supporters of this type of economy that was glories at that time, which happens that, as we were on the mark of a tribute, no one has stretched out of the hairs; often, when we plant it ourselves and talk about socialism and talk about a hundred_per_cent public control, we intend to caricaturize much more. In the event that this 100_per_cent public control, therefore, is not possible for the reasons that follow, we do want, indeed, that private companies that are contracted complete a series of qualitative and not only linked to the price. We share the idea, for example, that recently the Barcelona Assembly has placed on the table, that at the time of contracting the energy sub-administration there is a need for clauses that allow to combat the levels of sub-administration for economic reasons. It also favours small and medium-sized enterprises, which are therefore, in principle, more respectful of the compliments of agreements and the conditions of their workers. And finally, taking into account a more global point, that we are talking about a limited capacity to regulate public contracts; because, of one band, we are transposing a directive of the European Union that must promote transparency; of the other, in this same European Union, the liberalisation of trade in services and public contracts with the approval of treaties such as CETA is being undertaken every time. Finally, why do we reject Ciutadan's text and prefer the bill to prosper as it was written? At that time, Ciutadans disagreed with the procedure by virtue of the decree, and we agreed to state that this route has risks and that is why we also voted against it; at that time, we agreed. Now, one time it's handled like the bill, we don't understand the need for the speech to the totality with alternate text, and the motius is known– some have been pointed out, by other groups– for which this has prospered, right? , this address to the totality with alternate text. It seems that with the intervention of the deputy Marina Bravo of July it could be extreure – and in today's, right? – this will to subordinate the legislative rhythm of the Generality to which the State is making itself, with perfect complementarity also with the intervention made by the representative of the People's Party, which has thus glossed all the wonders of the legislative work being done in the Spanish State. And it turns out that it could be the only reason why the whole thing is motivated, right? Either this or that you have a hypothetical invasion of competitions; there have been a few points by Ciutadans on this subject, it has been said that some articles may not conform. I don't know if we're talking about being unconstitutional; so, you can say, here we are..., well, normally, the Constitutional makes us need some more emissaries to get his messages to us, which happens to mean they're exhausted from doing so much work and maybe they're doing it through other channels. Lately, therefore, through certain parliamentary groups, I do not know whether in public procurement or informally. It doesn't, we say, mean this whole thing, because, for example, in Ciutadan's alternative text proposal, there is no division of contracts into lots, when it's a question that your group has defended and promoted that you approve of this room, with a young man, now it's just a_me, right? , in which he was invited to make the necessary legislative changes to generalize the possibility of fragmenting contracts into lots to make them more accessible. This we voted for his proposal and, in change, his alternative text is not there; so, and in the text of the law proposal it is there. Nor is it understood that there is no reference in this alternative text to the content that in the Government's proposal there are those between Article 2 and Article 3 on concessions, that it is a subject that has focused much on the debate in the July plenary, and that special emphasis is placed on the transfer of operational risk to the concessionary undertaking and that, obviously, it is one of the key aspects of the directive that affects the interests of many of the IBEX 35 companies, is it clear? Why should I be sure of the guarantees with which these companies assume a risk knowing that under this risk there is a network, so any one is a contractor, right? And obviously, the Spanish employer, representing oligarchic interests in many cases, wanted this not to change it. I said, for example, the CEO in a February 2012 document, when he analysed, therefore, the public procurement sector, as he could move in the wake of the crisis, and said: "Legal certainty is another factor determining the financing possibilities of a concessional business. To this end, it is essential that the risks transferred to the private operator under the contract do not exceed those that diligent business management can foresee and assume, i.e. those that it can manage. I would ask that the departures from the clauses expressly establish the rebalancing of the concession when causes which are not foreseeable and which are beyond the proper management of the entrepreneur involve the breakdown of the economic balance of the concession. That is to say, the CEO in that case asked to maintain this dynamic of cost overruns and rescues. Finally, to conclude, there are many measures pending in the fight against the precariousness that is given in the framework of the public contract and other guarantees against corruption that we will do well, therefore, in the draft law, in the debate of this draft law or in the debates that are coming, if a question arises about a Catalan contract law, as it was announced in July. We will also make good use of the ideas that we keep alive, for example in the Law of Measures, two of which refer, the first, to a minimum wage of 1.200_gross euros in companies that enjoy these public contracts, and also with clauses that restrict access to this public contract of companies that operate in tax havens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.154.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Botran. The words of Mr. Germà Bel, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.155.0	Very good day or late, according to which the honourable Members prefer, attend the hour. See, if the decree is already in force was trivial or not, I think whoever has a mayor asked him, referring to the use of social concertation for the social problems of the assemblies. I understand that whoever doesn't have a mayor can't ask him, but he can always ask someone from Lleida's government team. Who has a very small mayor, neither, but those who have more mayors ask if it was trivial or not that you came into force the decree, in – what was it like there? – what interests people, social problems. Ah! But we don't pose. Jo, for a moment I seemed to be watching a debate between, in particular, three Members who needed another chamber; respectively, Mrs Bravo, Mrs Romero and Mrs García. I believe that for moments it was clear that they needed a state chamber, because you were commenting on everything that, in reality, in the Spanish institutional and constitutional framework, is competence of state legislature; for example, to fix if it is not only by transposition of the directive, but the details, the paper of the priests. That, of course, this is already the case, the Spanish contract law, the current law, does not only allow you to follow the criteria of price, the only thing that happens if you pass a little you have to ask for an external report, and they can say that someone has left the hand without taking into account qualitative criteria, because when you learn from principles of measurable concrete details you open the way to discretion. And I'm very grateful for speeches that emphasize the need for me not to get my hands on it and sometimes let criteria come in every time more discretionary. In any case, this legislation already exists. And if you want to discuss it when the processing is done, and we will discuss a lot of things that are not the competence of this chamber and that are where we are going to be: "Listen, the State does not allow us to fix this and it is a matter of legal certainty! What do you have to say to me, huh? , representing Junts for the Yes. That is why – for this – Mrs García, I repeat that it was – let's leave it to the good intention, that in the policy we don't have to judge intentions – I would think that the PP government and the Spanish legislator did not transpose the directive, because the directive, the most important in terms of this law and in this process, is in force since 2014 and in September 2015 they made a modification of the contract law – in September 2015 they made a modification of the State's contract law – and they did not transpose the directive. But it's all right, it's already in processing, and that actually makes a lot of details that we've been reflecting on since the Group of Together for Yes the processing of the law decree, which was a law decree with a content that there was a lot of detail missing for its applicability. Because it can only be transposed from a directive to a directive that the directive sets out precisely, and if the directives do not give application procedures it cannot be applied directly, and that is why the law of the State is being reformed, and each political party or parliamentary group will take its position and be responsible for it. But what we have here today is a... well, I'm not going to insist on the arguments to be in favor, because, well, we've already talked, right? , concessions............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. I was a little unfair, too, because, so they wouldn't say, I included the Vic-Manlleu or the Vic-Ripoll, as giving the impression that the Catalan law also allowed it. It is that on the subject of concessions and the patrimonial responsibility of the Administration, for the law it had all the concessions that is fessin in Spain at all levels. Another thing is how the Catalan government solved it, which is another issue and we'll take another day. Of course, the transposition of the directive gave us the opportunity to get out of this mark until Spain was settled. And the darkest system of making contractual deviations is the system of concessions, which allows to create construction and operation, that the concessionaire – which, remember, is the constructor – recognizes excess costs to the constructor – which, remember, runs the concessionaire – in the external financing guarantees. And if there is no operational risk transfer, the directive – and this is already in force since July – in Catalonia says: "There is a service contract. The contract of service separates construction and operation, increases the supervision of the Administration and, according to the speeches that are felt in this Parliament, everyone should have made palms, but palms and speeches – already well – are separated. And it clearly has effects. Since May or July in Catalonia it is not possible to make a concession if there is no transfer of operational risk, and the concession is the element that allows the most increases covered by extra costs, but it is necessary to understand how it works. But what we have before us today is a totally alternatively worded theme, and I wanted to do the deference to discuss the theme. Because the thought that doesn't – but that's what they said – is to transpose the directive to the king. I understand that because the reviews consider this to be State work and respect it – and respect it. Therefore, point 1 is disabled, because point 1 says that the directive is transposed, and it is not transposed. Point 2 and point 4 are about transparency and procedures, and they have a problem, from my point of view: they are very modest. What do I mean? It is that the level of things they say about transparency and complaint anonymity procedures are lower than what is already in force in the legislation. First, they disobey – that you too, when you pose as disobedient – the principle of precision and operationality of the standards, i.e. that they are applicable, and things so vague as to have Articles 2 and 4, that they lower the contents of the legislation already in force on transparency, to more need laws or regulations to be precise in order to be able to be applied. Certainly, you can already report to Catalonia, to the anti-fraud there is an anonymous bust; therefore, the 4 up late. And the 3, which is formation, here they disobey – that they are very disobedient – the principle of legislative economy, because look at how to regulate training projects by law, but if they are already developing, training projects in prevention of contract risks, etc. If you've... you've sounded to me a little bit like regulating the hours of dueres of the ticks per lei, which you've brought here to the chamber some time, in these hyperliberal attacks that give you to regulate the times of dueres, to regulate the projects formed... Therefore, I believe that in points 1, 2, 3, 4, or do not complete it, what they say, or are very moderate– very moderate–, moderate mass, for my taste, in transparency and all that. And, then, what they don't do, and that changes, by not collecting the third additional provision of the law decree, is that part that had had a more practical applicability to joints keeping it alive. That's why I'm telling you, I think it's normal because you don't have this level of interlocution and territorial demand to "don't touch this or make it easy for us to do this." That's normal, that's... that's not happening. What I do believe, and if I've understood it well, is the softness of the bones of his dream to the totality, is the additional disposition and the first final disposition. Because the additional provision and the final provision first come to say the same, twice, in case the first one had not been understood, and it is that the Catalan legislator will adapt to his legislation to what the laws have, the basic order of the State in matter. Don't call it that. What... if you already know. Didn't you just feel the debate? If we can't fix the concrete details because they are state legislation. That's why I told them that some of you need a state chamber. Think about it – think about it. But it's that, besides, I don't fall for another move. And I think that's what's at the base of this whole thing, and I respect it. Don't call. Well, it's clear that our parliamentary group will vote against the whole thing, right? I say that they do not fall, the additional provision and the first final provision, because in all matters, at all times, the legislation of the State is prevalent has left behind the judgment of the Constitutional Court of 2010 on the Statute of Autonomy of Catalonia, when it extinguished in practice the concept of "exclusive competence of the Spanish order". Don't call them; if we already know; it's for everything. It doesn't fit or stay at the law there, nor stay at the law here; when you want to get basic, and point, from that feeling. And that's what they say, sometimes, and in castle, of those dusts came these muds. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.156.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bel. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Let's vote on the motion for a totality with alternative text, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. As the speech to the totality with alternative text has been rejected by 24 votes in favour, 98 against and 10 abstentions, the bill of urgent measures in the matter of public contract continues its processing. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon. [[The session is suspended at one in the middle and six minutes and resumed at three in the afternoon. She chairs the President of the Parliament, accompanied by all the members of the Bureau, who are assisted by the secretary general, the major reader and the listener of accounts.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.157.0	Good afternoon, it's resumed. Good afternoon, all of you. [[Proposal for the coordination law of the healthcare pharmacy for the improvement of the health system (totality debate)]] [[202-00042/11]] The fourth point of the order of the day is: debate of totality on the proposed law of coordination of the care pharmacy for the improvement of the health system. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.158.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, I see that there have not been..., deputies, deputies, first place, and before I begin my intervention, let me thank the presence of the different representatives of the different pharmaceutical colleges of Catalonia, of the scientific society of Segac, of the business company FEFAC and, in particular, let me thank the presence of the president of the General Alliance of Patients. Today, from the city, we present this proposal for law with a very clear and very concrete objective, and that is the consequence of the development of the motion for a resolution that was approved by the last legislature for the unanimity of all the groups that are in this chamber today. The purpose of this proposal, in capital letters, is to achieve the benefit of the patient, a benefit that would improve and facilitate his or her attention. We want to take over the patient so that he can meet and share, with the healthcare professional he has most, part of his clinical history needed. We also want, with this proposal, that our system of salvation be made more effective, to the benefit of the society's joint venture. And, finally, we also want to work for coordination between the different health professions and the different care levels that follow the patient, because this is real, structured and protocoled. These are the main objects that seek this proposition of law. We believe that the patient, through his pharmacy, the one under his house, can have more knowledge of his health and that he can make the most of his proximity, but also the professionalism that the pharmacists offer them. And all this, obviously, we have to do with a series of requirements that are indispensable. In the first place, and obviously, with the informed consent and express authorization of the person. Moreover, this access will only be due to those aspects that are necessary to achieve pharmaceutical attention and that very often, due to its complexity, require many more data and much more information. Confidentiality and sanction mechanisms in the event of their breach by the professional, we also believe that they should be established in this law, as well as regular access and restricted to legally identified and qualified professionals. But if all these aspects are complete, the fact that we can share part of the clinical history summarized, would help solve many and many of the problems that patients find today, and also professionals in the sector. And I want to set them a series of examples, for example, with the millions of parties that the government has planned to spend on the next assumptions in information material, you find it normal that, in the 21st century, there are large people, who have to go to the pharmacy, who goes to the pharmacy to take'stress and have to go to the consultation of their primary meth of attention with a paper? Do you see that as normal? So, often this work, which is being done by the Community pharmacist, is being lost. Do they not see an opportunity, that these measures are reflected in the patient's clinical history, and that it can be shared in a more agile, easier and more practical way? Or, for example, tests of biologic determination, or cholesterol, or sugar, or documentation and follow-up of the SPD, of the personalized dispensation service? In fact, what we're thinking is not a question that we've invented since the City, you can look at the example, for example, of the United Kingdom, and you can see the close relationship that exists between the professionals of the consultation and the professionals of the pharmacy. In short, what we are looking for with this law proposal is to improve and apply technologies, the new technologies, to improve the coordination between occupational health differences and between the different levels of care. Other examples: cases of allergy or intolerance, where, sometimes, it is very difficult to carry out a good pharmacotherapeutic follow-up of multi-medical patients who consult, for example, for minor symptoms and who may have certain allergies or associated conditions, with hepatic or renal impairment. And so we could put them infinitely into cases, contradictions with chronic diseases and acute diseases that affect, for example, the correct use of the medicine. Or cases of therapeutic adherence. In short, a case that is very and very extensive and that is found in the day-to-day and that we believe could be solved. But there are also other aspects that we believe would improve for the benefit of the patient and for the benefit of our health system: the coordination that can and must exist between the different health professions is indispensable to seek the effectiveness of our system. And this proposal would be a small step forward towards this goal, which we want to reach. If we regulate the structure and protocols needed to achieve these advances, we can continue to work on improving management in favor of our patients. Look, our society evolves to pathologies every time more chronic, and we need the complicity of all the actors involved to make it better. In the first place, obviously, we need the complicity of the patients, but we also need to get it from the different health collections, scientific societies, unions, to reach the consensus that the joint venture of the society benefits. And, frankly, I think that this consensus, now we have it ourselves. We have to take advantage of the capillary of our pharmacies, we have to take advantage of the more than three thousand pharmacy offices that we have from all over the territory of Catalonia. And that's what we need to take advantage of to improve the quality of life of our people. Most of us have clear who is the model to follow, which is the model of a care pharmacy. But now it's time to put a thread in the needle, now it's time to put all these policies that are needed to last. I don't think anyone can doubt the proximity and professionalism of our pharmacists. We all know that the first facility that people access when they have a health problem is the pharmacy that they have on their doorstep, the pharmacy that they have on their doorstep, the pharmacy that they have on their doorsteps, the pharmacy that they have on their people. We want to recognize the role of the pharmacist, but we also need to express their abilities. Always, obviously, under the protocol·reading of the actions and complementing the activity of the doctors or nurses and nurses, of our primary attention. And we have to develop the motion for a resolution, as I said to the principle, which was approved in this Parliament, unanimously, on behalf of all parliamentary groups in the last parliamentary term. And if we develop it, we will make great strides towards the decongestion of our health care system. And best of all, do you know what it is? That many of these proposals do not have any cost, and many others have a very small cost. But that's why we have to believe it. We, from Ciutadans, believe in each other. The people who are now representing the sector – the colleges, scientific, business and patient associations – believe this. Gentlemen of the Government, do you believe it or not? If we really have the patient as the maximum beneficiaries of all these proposals, what we can't do is let the train get away. We have a broad consensus as to how to work on the subject, we have trained and qualified professionals, we have consensus, we have structure, but the most important thing is that we have a long way to go. Examples of success of other countries have in them, and some of them are, for example, Canada or Australia. Therefore, Members and Members, we cannot stand back, we can be pioneers in the conjunction of our country. Don't tank the doors to open a future better for sanitation. Do not tanch the doors to evolve, to the benefit of our society and to the benefit of the patient. Let's not underestimate the pharmaceutical paper. Here, today and now, we are presenting a clear and concrete proposal, which we can improve in the parliamentary process – we can add to it, we can modify things and we can reduce things – but what we cannot do, Members and Members, is lose opportunity, we cannot let it escape. And we cannot let her escape, in the first place, for the benefit of all Catalans, and, in the second place, for the benefit that this would suppose to our system of salvation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.159.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Next, in order to defend the totality raised by the People's Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.160.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. To explain the object to the totality, we think it is necessary to start from three basic elements. One is the current model of pharmacy, the other is the crisis of pharmaceutical offices and, finally, what we think is going to be a little bit of a law proposal, which is the management of existing wreaths. The current model of pharmacy, the model of pharmacy of the Spanish State, as you know, is the unknown Mediterranean model; a model that is more or less shared by Italy and Greece, characterized by the private ownership of a public interest establishment, where only pharmacy licenses can be holders of pharmacy offices and where no one can hold more than one office. Interestingly, or not so curiously, but to us it is a little curious, the more questionable this model is from the far more ultra-liberal, from liberalism it is from the question of this model. The European Union, some time ago, wanted to eliminate this model, the Mediterranean model, as I said, in the name of free competition and the world of pharmaceutical colleges and pharmacy office holders, with a very concrete profile, both social and ideological, except that it is often converted into a rare opinion, it got the support of the People's Party government to fight for what is the Spanish model of pharmacy. For the time being, after a long process of judgements, resources and counter-resources, the Mediterranean model has been able to resist the European Union's liberal engagement, but it seems more likely that it is a false and provisional closure, and of course that, late or late, the European Union will return to the burden so as to continue the offensive of liberalising this market, too. Therefore, the confrontation is: model of pharmacy where the property was linked to licensing or liberalization with the entrance of multinationals and, therefore, the destruction of the model, which is private but which is therefore close to a much worse model. Here, in fact, until not so many years ago, Ciutadans, you who present this proposal of law, had always defended the liberalisation of the model of pharmacy, but now it seems that in the last few years you have changed a little. But the second element that I said..., beyond the definition and characterization of the pharmacy model, there is what is the crisis of pharmaceutical offices, crisis that comes together for a lot of reasons: for the shopping bottle of pharmaceuticals, for the electronic reception, for the loss of exclusivity in some products, for the drug successes... These pharmacy offices are painted for your future as they had never done, especially those popular or barred pharmacies with less purchasing power, where the percentage of free sales is much smaller and the viability of pharmacy offices depends on the prescription dispensation. This has caused these pharmacy offices to be promoting initiatives to increase their portfolio of services, more or less successful, to fight back battle, to finally win over these services for those they fight for; therefore, to fight for the survival of the model they see questioned and to guarantee the survival of their business, ultimately. In this sense, we could incorporate here what is pharmaceutical care, which, as you say, in the Nordic countries and also in England and Ireland has a lot of weights, and which is a model that here has not just quallar, at least in the way that the official pharmaceutical colleges wanted. Because basically the pharmaceutical service model that it does is to ask the holders of pharmacy offices to carry out a series of actions that can only last the pharmaceutical offices with surplus economic resources and human resources. Therefore, we are talking about concrete pharmaceutical offices, in concrete areas, which do not include this combination of offices that exist. Therefore, these are the only ones who can raise the pharmaceutical attention that is due to the Nordic countries. In this sense, some elements should be taken into account. Pharmaceutical attention awakens many reticences in the collection of metges and metgesesses. We could discuss whether we agree or not and that pharmaceutical care can be a good option, but what is obvious is that it is now raising certain fears. And also that many pharmaceutical offices that are due to term, in place of the pharmaceutical attention following the Nordic model, is that which is called the personalized pharmacotherapeutic systems, which is, we could say, a white one, in some way, of this pharmaceutical attention that gathers good part of the virtues of this and that does not generate so many conflicts of competition with the rest of the sanitary collections and that does not require, now, the clinical history to serve the patients well. At this impasse, the official pharmaceutical colleges have drawn or sought to develop the portfolio of services, as they say, in a direction that makes them gain more from health care than the older marketer and strengthen and develop more than has been done so far... In this sense, the pharmaceuticals have, don't they? , taking into account this capillaryness that you have left the country, and therefore try to work for early detection, follow-up or health education so that it is much more useful, or we believe that it can be more useful to integrate into the health system. And finally, as I said, what we mean, apart from this introduction, what this bill's proposal was, what for us is key is that it's a bill's proposal that goes in the line of managing our gears, because it doesn't take into account that we don't..., or the health model that we have, a model that isn't a hundred_per_cent public, a model that has seen like the last few years..., that has always, from the start, but that the last few years has seen its human and economic resources squeezed with the shortcuts, and that, therefore, this also needs to be taken into account. And it's not part of the concrete model of pharmacy we have..., or part of this model, but it doesn't pose in question and it doesn't analyze whether this is the real model we want to have or this is the model we really need and what we need to work on. Therefore, we understand that some of the reasons for which this proposal of law is attached..., if we approached the health model, if we approached the detail or the pressing of human and economic resources with the detail and the concrete model of pharmacies that we have, would already be solved much of what is attached as the reason for this proposal of law. Therefore, for the sake of clarity and to explain a little more..., it is to say, without the precariousness in which the health collection of primary care works – given that it has sharpened in recent years, as I said – where, if this precariousness does not exist, it is possible to devote as much time as necessary to the patients, the CAP midwives, the health workers of primary care centres could work as well with the patients. And that's the issue we need to address. And devoting more time to patients could also work more in the network with the pharmaceutical collection of the pharmacy offices, so that you're much more integrated. But it's that basically what this law proposal does is to talk about the clinical history, about having the clinical history; it's the center of this law proposal. But for us, even more so than you have now, when you explained it, you have explained it a little, it is not concrete which part or on the basis of five criteria. And this is a detail that is not a minor, talking about what clinical history, what details and with what criteria is accessed; therefore, this is a key and central element. Therefore, as we understand that practically it is only this that is played and that, if it can either arrive or we can come to share that in some circumstances it may be important to have access to at least one part of the clinical history, such as the one referring to the treatment that has been dispensed from the pharmacy, we believe that it requires more work. But it's that, besides, why don't we just put more stuff on it? We could make other requests, more than just plant access to the clinical history, we could plant ourselves for what. We suggest that the pharmaceutical network integrates into the health system, so that there is already direct access and that we do not develop ad hoc law proposals for specific issues, if we incorporate them directly. We could plant a retributive model not based on the percentage of the sales, but on the work done, too. So, we could discuss what the model of pharmacy we have is. Therefore, we believe that it is not possible to present a..., or we cannot support a proposal of law, understand that it is as one of the many best miracles, without analyzing which are the problems of primary health care in conjunction with the overall health system and, from here, to put solutions with rigour and integral vision, and not from concrete pieces, without having the general view. We cannot support a law proposal on a matter as specific as delicate without having worked with all and each of the professional and citizen collections involved in it. And, finally, the question we think we should do more at the macro level is: is this the model of pharmacy we want? Given the crux of the world of pharmacy right now, the liberalisation and co-optation of the market for multinationals or the strengthening of the future healthcare and care sector, we believe that we need to move forward in this second by putting in place the control mechanisms that we use and working for the nationalization or creation of public production and distribution companies and linking the purchase in these public enterprises to the ability to provide medicines for the public system. In short, the debate about care pharmacy should also be about production and distribution, and therefore, if production and distribution is public and the buyer is public, it is obvious that we condition and generate a real community pharmacy system that responds to the needs of patients and that takes into account all the collections involved now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.161.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Regant. Next, in order to defend the totality raised by the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, Ms. Montserrat Fornells has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.162.0	Thank you very much, President. Vice President, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. First of all, I would like to greet the entire audience who are accompanying us here today, representatives of the pharmaceutical world and the health world. Since the Junta Group for Yes we have presented a statement to the totality of this Proposal for the Law for the Coordination of the Care Pharmacy for the Improvement of the Health System, because we consider that a law is not the way. You can observe points of finding in this proposal, but do not do so through a law. We believe that there are other mechanisms to do so and that from the department is already working to implement them. We don't lock the door to anything, Mr. Mejía. The 2016-2020 Health Plan aims to enhance more integrated social and health care, which addresses the medical complexity and interrelationship with the person's surroundings, with the patient's surroundings. Following a comprehensive and integrated pharmaceutical and drug policy to the rest of the health system will improve health outcomes and promote the rational, safe, effective and effective use of medicines. In this context, collaboration in the provision of health care and pharmaceutical services by pharmacists from health-care pharmacies improves the provision of services to the citizen in conditions of proximity, accessibility and professionalism. The proposal for a law submitted by the Group of the European People's Party and presented to us by the Member of the European Parliament proposes two requirements to encourage the cooperation of pharmaceutical companies in the provision of health services. One, first, is the access of the Community pharmacist to a part of the clinical history of the user, provided for consent. And two, that this pharmacist can help to complete the history statement with some indicators that you have been able to detect and, if you get out, with the additional health treatment that the user receives. Access to the clinical history of the user for the duration of the pharmaceutical attention tasks raises the faces of the type of operation. On one side, there is a diversity in electronic media that at this time contain the clinical hospital and primary care records that make complex direct access to the consultation of clinical information and the incorporation of new information. This diversity of electronic media also implies a diversity of systems for the protection of sensitive information, designed to limit access to information to those health professionals involved in patient care. This diversity of fonts for information also adds diversity of community pharmacy establishments. Tanmateix, it is operationally difficult to properly record the user's consent to give access to their data. Therefore, from a point of view of security guarantees, the operation and operation to provide the pharmaceuticals with a system of selective protection of sensitive information and to allow support for healthcare activity, is very complex. Finally, the incorporation of new information into the different patient history supports is another operational challenge, considering the fact that multiple interfaces for the different information systems in which a patient can have a clinical history are hot. In this sense, and they recognise the opportunity, value and priority of collaboration between Community pharmacists in the provision of services, the area of medicine of the Catalan Health Service has as its priority the implementation and the improvement of the coordination tools between health professionals. The area works to generate new tools to support safe and efficient dispensation that overcome the operational limitations on access to the clinical history in order to ensure access to the information needed to provide care on the part of these professionals and to allow their collaboration, contribution, input into this history. In this sense, in this aspect, in this context, efforts have focused on enhancing the role of the electronic receipt as a key tool for integrating drug prescription and dispensing processes. The electronic receipt already provides real-time pharmaceutical service information for all agents, with the aim of improving citizen care. However, with a view to improving the availability of the necessary information to ensure better pharmaceutical care, it is working on the design and implementation of four key strategic objectives to improve the performance of this tool, of this electronic receipt: one, to provide information on the patient's medication in an automated manner; two, to establish elements that guarantee the clinical safety of the medicines; three, to incorporate hospital ambulatory dispensation medication and entire household nutrition into the electronic receipt in order to have a more complete medication plan, and, fourth, to enhance the use of the email message on all professional referents who care for a particular patient can coordinate and communicate. All these actions are intended to improve the quality of information on the patient's therapeutic course, to ensure the integration of relevant clinical information in order to improve the safety of the prescription, to allow the intercommunication between professionals involved in patient care, and, ultimately, to encourage the integration of the Community pharmacist into the network of healthcare workers who meet patients, always within a robust, single system, with a degree of protection of appropriate data, proportional and adapted to the care function of the Community pharmacist. At the same time, more work from the Health Department on improving and enhancing the electronic reception is also promoting the general use of Cat@Salut La Meva Salut, the health folder, as a secure digital space that will enable the citizen, through a digital identification, to access his personal health information, consult and carry out journeys. In this sense, the CatSalut is firmly committed to this tool in order to promote a personalized assistance to the citizenry, bringing the resolution of the elements of the health system closer together and promoting the empowerment of people in the way of their salvation. In this area, the information generated by health care at some of the public health centres has been included, among which is the current medical plan. Therefore, it is essential to consolidate and expand the information at the electronic reception so that the central tool can integrate the prescription and dispensation processes, so that all agents involved in the care process can access this information in order to provide the best possible assistance to the citizenry. The ease of having this information on the My Health portal allows preventive actions and monitoring and relationship with professional differences about the explicit will of the same city; it also leads to a decrease in therapeutic errors and redundant medication, and a unified view between professional differences and the same city. In short, the widespread implementation of Cat@Salut La Meva Salut facilitates a better, and more efficient, use of the pool of health resources, a guarantee of greater transparency and interaction between professionals and citizens, and an example of how technology helps to customize the provision of health services. Finally, to highlight the importance of this project, to evaluate the future lines of work that will have to be consolidated as the gateway to the health system in order to make personalized, electronic management, as the proper use in app format, and its ease to incorporate solutions based on the mobility of the citizen in the health model, which wants to be fostered in secure, transparent and personalized interactions. In summary, and to conclude, the development of the electronic receipt and the health folder are the lives in which the Government is already working to consolidate and cooperate among health professionals, including pharmacists, and access to relevant clinical information, so as to improve patient care. And, as I said before, we consider that a law is not the right way. And for this reason, since the Group of Together for the Yes, we have presented a report to the totality. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.163.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fornells. Then, to the contrary, has the word Mr. David Mejía.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.164.0	Thank you, President. "This goes for democracy, this is the motto used by the government party and the CUP; "this goes for democracy in their demonstrations, and now it turns out that those who fill the word democracy prevent the Parliament of Catalonia from dealing with a law that is beneficial to all and every Catalan. "This goes for democracy; very well, ladies and gentlemen, very well. Look, you guys... [[remorse of the voice]] , you... [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] He's not nervous...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.165.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.166.0	Thank you, Mr. Comín, for coming; I am sorry that in the first intervention there could not be. You, presenting this theme to the totality, show that the only one that interests you is the monotheme, is independence... [[Widow's remorse.]] He's not nervous – he's not nervous. When it comes to questions that really solve life and can make the lives of all Catalans better, you present items to the totality. You talk... [[Greetings.]] You always talk about democratic mandates, and now that we have a mandate from the sector, from the sector as a whole, from all health professionals and from patient association – and from patient association – you prevent this from being passed on and you prevent it from being talked about these issues that are really needed. The Junts Congresswoman was talking about the yes that we were carrying. But if it is you who are closing the doors to not be able to debate a necessary question to improve our system of salvation. He was talking – he was talking – about faces of type of operation. And you tell me, when on the assumption that you want to approve you have millions of parties for computer themes. Because, look, money and resources, because the pharmacy is involved in the electronic receipt, they do; we agree, and the more it's done very well. But, you, resources because you give a hand..., because you know that in the primary meths, many times, there is an interrelationship between the pharmacists..., that the meth about you tells him to go to the pharmacy to take 'the tension. And you think you should go with a paper? You've stayed in the 20th century; we're in the 21st century. [[Greetings.]] As far as Congresswoman Reguant is concerned... you've really gone for the whites. He talked about liberalisation, we haven't talked at any time of liberalisation. You have gone to the next marketer, we prefer to stay at the next service, which is what our pharmacies are doing. They say there are reticences of the different collections; so, look, we have spoken to the different health collections and it seems to us that this reticence is not there. But, at any rate, in the case of this, why do you prevent the parliamentary process and why do you not allow Parliament to debate a better way for society and a better way for our health system? In short, it seems, as I said, that you do not want to adapt to the 21st century. It seems that you do not want to evolve to the benefit of the patient. Because the memory that, from this proposition of law, the object in upper case is the benefit of the patient. We've got the consensus from the collectives, and you're breaking it. Remember, when people say that politics is longed out of society at this time; remember that there's consensus in the collection and you're breaking it. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a penalty that I do not take advantage of this opportunity; a penalty that I do not take advantage of to evolve and make better for our society. We'll keep trying. If you do not want to work for the conjunction of Catalans, we, from Ciutadans, we do want to do so. Don't leave us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.167.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Mejía. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.168.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, councillor, vice president..., pharmacy... to greet also, naturally, the people representing the health world and the pharmaceutical world who accompany us today in this Parliament. The community pharmacy is one of the basic agents in community health; it is a cabdal sector in our health system, it is one of the first care lines and has a great territorial capillary. It is for this reason, because we all understand the importance of pharmacy in our health care system, that public authorities should do everything possible to make it easier for professionals and, of course, also for citizens to use telematic and information-access platforms whenever it brings a better service and also an efficiency in the system. Maintaining a functional compartment in the field of the telematics network and hindering access to clinical records implies all the opposite; it would mean closing the access doors to the public system, a fact that would have a direct impact on the entire drug chain. The most important thing is to establish coordination mechanisms because all health workers – and I mean: all health workers – and social workers can work together and with the best possible information. And to achieve this does not pass to approve a concrete law, specific only to this topic. The recognition and the task of the community pharmacy is not to be done with a draft law that merely backs up an aspect of its task; it cannot be tried to regulate the patient's clinical history in an even way. If that were the case, we would have to approve or we could approve a regulation, a technical regulation, and have a very good technical basis that we don't have today. The community pharmacy can have and has a clear role as a health, prevention, health education agent, in facilitating the necessary, all that is necessary for self-care, and also in the pharmacological and social follow-up of the multi-medical, chronic and especially the most fragile population. For example, the mouth is filled many times with social and health care and we still don't have all the necessary coordination bases because there is a clinical history of primary care where there are basic social data to work with all the same information, to try to be more effective and take full care of the most fragile. Or do you think we wouldn't improve social welfare if residential centers could access some information on our clinical history? Or residential services for people with mental disabilities? Ladies and gentlemen, a few months ago we were presented with the basis for the development – the Councillor did – of the Strategic Primary Care and Community Health Plan, which the Councillor would in any case do well to speed up, in any case, for the imminent – for the imminent –..., or the short duration of this legislature – which we expect to be short. In the work of the experts planned to the bases, more and more, the participation of the pharmacy precisely to a certain level, and according to its level of competence, also to the shared clinical history. If we make an appropriate chronological order and if the time helped us, the most logical would be that a date approved the Strategic Primary Care and Community Health Plan is fassin' legislative changes and the deployment of the adient regulation. Things don't work out by making a point modification of a law, of an aspect, I insist, that it's very technical and also delicate, because it turns out we're giving access to the clinical history to some private people. Therefore, it is also important to take this into account. Or what is proposed in this law as appears, for example, in the final provision according to: "Pharmaceutical schools must, within the institutional framework, evaluate and participate actively. I understand that you inform them, that you consult them, but from here to evaluate and implement perhaps there is a very wide gap, and the more it does not refer to agents who intervene in the rest of the chain, such as the doctor responsible for the prescription or diagnostic evidence that falls. Therefore, Mr. Mejía, it is not that we are not in the 21st century, it is not that we are not in the 21st century. What this is about is that, precisely, to be in the 21st century, we need to do things well and have a minimum basis that allows us to move forward on what digitization has to be. But all those of us who consider, in this sense, that the proposal that you have brought to us is only going to stop or legislate a specific part of which we consider to be a broader system we believe is short at these times. That said, and I want to reiterate it, it is important that the community pharmacy integrates and participates in health portfolio programs, of which we, of course, were pioneers, and that they can also register in the health folder and that they can also improve some of the current dysfunctions that prevent intercommunication, as he explained, between pharmaceuticals and prescriptive devices, measures that are more feasible and that are more effective for the sector, we believe, from our point of view. In one principle, it is not a matter of entering the clinical history indiscriminately, but in limited spaces, as can be the health folder or others that can be established for such recording activity and medicine to address alarms or detected problems of medicines and health programs where community pharmacy is involved. We've got a lot of work to do. I say that in plural, because in the discussion of the strategic plan we want to be there. But these aspects cannot be addressed in a timely manner, but on the basis of community work and the coordination of health workers. The Socialist Parliamentary Group will therefore abstain from this proposal for the reasons I have put before you. I insist: we have a lot of work to do. I believe that if we have the ability to take a much broader, much more global view of our health system and make more of a bet for its digitalization, we will make it much more effective and make it much more comfortable for the city as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.169.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Moreno. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.170.0	Good afternoon. Thank you to Congressman David Mejía, who has presented this proposal to us, that we do not doubt and understand that he opens a debate that can open or, to doubt, that can work. As you said, the pharmacy and the paper that plays the pharmacy in the system, and, let me stretch out a little, at the social level, the space you occupy in our lives, is an important space, and no one can deny it. I live in a village of three thousand inhabitants and I can already say that the pharmaceutical paper is almost a paper..., I insist, I would not want to pass, but it is this paper that in societies, therefore, could have played in its moment the mossán, that person who is there, who listens, that more than selling a drug makes a social pocket. And I think that's undeniable. And, from here on out, it's certainly also undeniable that we have the obligation to look for the way in which it responds, isn't it? ... before Eulàlia spoke of the Mediterranean model, and surely there are things in which we can deepen and which would surely be good. Now, we, following above all the arguments put forward by the Member of the House in relation to her whole question, will gather the whole question to the whole question presented by the CUP. For these arguments and also for a context question. You used to quote us as examples of what happens, for example, to Canada. Clari, what's going on? That we can compare Canada's pharmacies with the pharmacies here, but surely we should also compare Canada's primary care with that here. Why? Because this debate that you are proposing, and as the Socialist Party member put it, is a debate that is produced in a circle and that is not a debate that we can set up in an ally way. You yourself said: "The pharmacy forms part of the system. A system, by definition, is a space in which all its elements interrelate. I, therefore, propose changes without taking into account the rest of the system... And when do you say without taking into account what I mean? I have met, for example, with many representatives of the sector who explained to me, more than that of the clinical history, which after a little appreciation, more than that, explained to me..., and this can be explained to us by all the pharmacists in this country. What do you find, our country's pharmacists? It is found, therefore, that many times the people who came up also up with some needs that are the consequence of one malfunctioning function on the other side of the system, another that depend directly on what we are doing here. So, when I was talking to these representatives, and I think they're full of common sense, they say, "But we can do this for the five minutes that they don't do and the people need. Perfect. But it's that we have an obligation that maybe the meths have two minutes to take care of the patient. So, if we're talking about a system, what we do today, and I agree with the socialist deputy, is that it's complicated to deal with this issue all the way. You're told by a member of a group who, in relation to the health care system... we've always put the need on the table and we've suffered the powerlessness of being able to discuss the health care system. In the Health Committee, you know, many times we talk about loose things, but the system's background and its functioning, so there's no way. And there's no way... today we felt the president of the Generalitat said the model was a wonder. Well, therefore, our parliamentary group is asking whether it is a wonder for the reasons that it is. But we're here to do..., or we want to do or we think it would be a lot to do, so, a deep reflection of the whole system. And, to be sure, that in this reflection the paper of the pharmaceuticals must be integrated; this is not discussed. Now, I insist, in a country where primary care has suffered what has happened in the last few years, we have to be very curious that, even if we move for the best intentions, we fall into a logic of replacing – of replacing – that which can no longer make the primary care that others do. I'm not saying it's his intention, or much less his pharmaceuticals, but that's the danger. And if we really talk about the issue of clinical history, I agree with you that oysters are very difficult to inform. Well, we all know that when things happen, they want to be a fan. Now, in the same way that I was saying that there is a profound, systemic debate that we are talking about, with regard to this concrete aspect, which is that of the chronic stories, you know that, in this hemisphere, both in this legislature and in the past, we have had a very deep and complex debate on the cessation of health data. And this is a debate that I think until it's no longer resolved, and it's more resolved because they've gone through, some of them, and they'll probably be able to do more... but if we don't just close this, we open another front, which, I insist, can't be dealt with in any way. Therefore, we do not doubt the need, we do not doubt the good intention and the need to recognize the role of the pharmacy, but we will vote favorably for the whole issue for all that I have explained, without harm that we can continue to speak. We would always be willing to talk about this and willing to try as a minimum that the government is beginning to set up at a time when, as a minimum, there are no medals on the magnificent functioning of a system that, in any case, is not magnificent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.171.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fachin. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.172.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor Comín, Councillor Rull..., to position us on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party in relation to this proposal for the law of the Ciutadans Group, and I will surprise you, indeed, I will surprise you because I will tell you that our parliamentary group will be consistent with what we have historically defended in this Parliament, unlike other parliamentary groups. That is to say, in this Parliament we have already made decisions in favour of the transformation of the community pharmacy into a care pharmacy. And today we hear groups that have also positioned themselves in this same line that are destitute from what they said, and even from what was approved, that it was precisely to make this appeal: to consider the pharmacy as a health resource and therefore to try to take advantage of this action that we have as a public benefit society, for the benefit of an objective that we understand and believe is shared by absolutely all, that is public salvation. But we see that at the time of truth this is not complete. And it's not complete not just by the government, but it's not complete either by parliamentary groups. And today it is not complete on the part of the Government because the Government has a parliamentary mandate that, oh surprise, does not complete, and parliamentary groups that give one thing today say another of different. As far as we're concerned, we interpret it differently. But in any case, our group will have this strange feeling of staying consistent with the assumptions that we are going to defend in this Parliament at other times, and therefore we will keep in this line of thinking – to honestly think – that the role of the pharmacy can go far beyond what it is today – today – not the fruit of its historical conception, but today, you have or can have as a mere drug dispenser, but we understand that it can go far beyond there and have an active participation in public health and the salvation of the citizens. Therefore, we share the aim of the proposed law presented by the Ciutadans Group. But it is that, moreover, in the current circumstances we understand that it is especially relevant, both the conjunctural circumstances, that it is the saturation of the public health system, like the structural ones, that is to say where we go as society and what will be the reptiles of the health system, immediate, present, no longer of the future, present, immediate: the increase of life expectancy, the aging of the population, the increase of chronicities, the increase of polymedicine... And these are the reptiles we'll have. And they will allow me a parentheses to say that we agree with what the President of the Generality expressed this morning and which today the CUP Group expressed – news: the People's Party coincides in something with the CUP, yes –: sanitation is underfunded. We are absolutely in agreement, Counselor. We do not agree that the fault is Madrid, but its own government, councillor. If sanitation is underfunded, it's because the government you're part of decides to reduce the health department's pessimism in the context of the Generality's assumptions. And this is the responsibility of the Government, the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for the Yes, which gives it support, and the Parliamentary Group of the UPC, which will vote for these assumptions in which sanitation is infra-financed. We already agree she's underfunded, but I don't look so far, look closer, that the responsibility is yours. You have the ability to decide how to distribute resources, and if it's poorly distributed, it's your responsibility, and you don't look there anymore. I also see that we have a network of more than three-thousand pharmacy offices distributed homogeneously throughout the territory – I repeat: homogeneously throughout the territory –, agreements for health professionals, who are pharmacists, and who also have a public service function. We're indifferent to ownership. We do not suffer because who exercises a public service is a public service or a private one, if it has an assigned public function, and you have assigned it, more so, for law and, therefore, has some responsibilities. We trust people and trust people's responsibility. Others, no; others rely solely on the responsibility of public agents. I suppose Venice also has to do the same, and so are they. But we do not; we trust the society, and we believe that these professionals can contribute and must contribute to this common goal, which we have repeatedly said is public salvation. Experiences, there is; few, but experiences, there is. Early detection of HIV, early detection of colon cancer, are positive experiences. Cholesterol, color, etcetera. That is to say, experiences, there is, but what it is about is that these experiences do not follow the anecdotes, do not remain punctual, but that we continue to manage which is the care role they have and which the professionals of the pharmacy can play. But we also want to make clear what the role that these professionals have to play in our parents' lives is. Because here that is not dealt with or can be dealt with is that the professional pharmaceuticals replace the medical faculties. It is not a question of visiting the pharmacy, nor much less – nor much less – but it is precisely that there is a collaboration between the different health disciplines; collaboration and search for those areas in which the pharmacists, the pharmacy's offices can collaborate. And in this sense we are convinced that with prevention, detection and resolution of problems, especially those related to drugs..., they have a relevancy paper, obviously; or simply offer treatments for minor symptoms, or simply derive the patient from primary care. To monitor the evolution of chronicities, to monitor the polymedicines and interactions that different medicines can have; to monitor and ensure and contribute to improving the adherence of patients to their drug plans, which is an important and fundamental issue and for which there is often a repetition of the influx of patients to the emergencies of our hospitals. That is to say, I repeat: we believe that, effectively, the pharmacy and the pharmaceutical professionals have a paper, they have an important paper to play on this global goal, which is that of public salvation. And this law proposal presented by the Ciutadans Group does not solve the whole role of the pharmacy that can play in the health care system, nor much less. We're convinced they don't want it either. But it does address an aspect that is necessary, that is to allow the pharmaceutical professional to have access to the shared clinical history. And from here, they will allow me: this is not a technical debate, nor is it a debate on defining what are the limits we need to establish in access to the clinical data of the patients, because, technically, there are sufficient and necessary means as to determine who is the abst of access to the shared clinical history, who are the preventions that fall into time because they can access the shared clinical history, who are the registers that need to be created because they are aware that a person, a pharmaceutical professional, has accessed the shared clinical history. Therefore, here are other debates that are more technical than not sanitary. From a political point of view we have to say: 'Listen, we want this to be that way. From here, technically,,, arbitrary mechanisms necessary because all the safeguards that may exist with regard to data protection remain valid and effective. Therefore, our group is not at all inconvenient in allowing this bill to be dealt with so that it can proceed to something as simple as its parliamentary debate, with the certainty that we know perfectly well that this is not the solution, but it is not a necessary part. And two points, to finish. Says Junts' deputy for the Yes: "A law is not the relevant way. We already agree, the relevant way is the Health Department's action, and that's what we're missing. But a law is necessary to guarantee the rights of citizens and also to guarantee the legal security of the pharmaceutical paper. And finally: we wouldn't like that in health matters, counselor, in the past the same thing that happens to you, which is that every day we're late for everything. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.173.0	Thank you, Mr. Rodriguez. We're calling it a vote. We will proceed to the vote of the papers to the totality, presented for the Parliamentary Group of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed and of the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. The vote begins. Total votes were rejected by 79 votes to 34, with 16 abstentions. Therefore, the Law coordinating the care pharmacy for the improvement of the health system remains rejected. [[Proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the financing of political parties, and of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code (debate of totality)]] [[270-00001/11]] The fifth item on the agenda is the debate on a totality of the proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the proposal for a law amending Law 8/2007 of 4 July 2007 on the financing of political parties, and of the Organic Law 10/1995 of 23 November 1995 on the Criminal Code. According to Articles 173 and 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, signing the proposal, has the word. [[Widow's remorse.]] Please, as always, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence so that Mr. Coscubiela can begin.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.174.0	Thank you, President. Well, good afternoon. I am convinced that all parliamentary groups share the seriousness of the cases of irregular financing of some political parties. Irregular practices, in some cases, clearly of corruption, which are at the origin of a strong delegitimization of the democratic system and are one of the evidences of the degradation seen by the political system in our country. In this sense, I am also convinced that you will share that there is a clear indistinction between the practices produced in Spain and the products produced in Catalonia. Don't just practice, also on many occasions the alibis that are given to justify what is going on. Remember: the conspiracy theme always appears to pursue those who are object of investigation. We have a few recent cases: the explanations given to Spain for the Popular Party and the explanations given to Catalonia for Convergence with what you have to see with Catalonia come together very much, are like two drops of water. One in castle, the other in català, but ultimately the same ones. We are debating this law proposal at the door of an important court, the judgment of 3_per_cent and, therefore, I believe that what we are doing today does not only matter but is relevant today. I hope that we also share all the consequences of these irregular, criminal practices in some cases, are very difficult; they degrade the democratic life of the country; they pose a clear submissiveness of political parties that practice them in relation to the interests of certain companies; they mean a major break in the principle of equality between parties, because, in short, donations are almost always a fan of the same and they concentrate 90_percent of these donations in very few countries; they mean a misrepresentation of public resources; they explain, at least in part, decisions of investments that are not related to social needs but to the interests of the entrepreneurs, especially when it comes to concessional capitalism, which has come from certain concessions. From our point of view corruption is not a generalised practice, if we generally understand that it does not affect all political parties or all policies. But it has been an absolutely systemic practice: it is a practice that affects the conjunction of the system, from the monarchy to some assemblies, passing through the central administration and the autonomous communities. Let me share with you what I think are some elements common to these irregular, illegal, criminal practices. It has always been possible thanks to the coincidence of some factors: the persistence of the same political party in the face of certain institutions; a political colonization of these institutions by political parties that is perplexed in time, without limits, without counterweights, without democratic controls; a perception of impunity that comes to hold the people and the organizations of the political parties that practice this irregular financing, and, after all, that is what it is today, legislation that has allowed over time, tolerated – when it has not promoted – these practices of conxorxation between concessional capitalism and political power. Despite the gravity of the cases, despite the impact that they have had in democratic terms, despite the degradation that they have entailed, despite the many institutional declarations of rebroadcasting, some times the clothing has become blurred, until now, in our view, insufficient measures have been taken to prevent or discourage these practical practices. During the previous parliamentary term, by an absolute majority of the People's Party, there were two reforms of the state legislation of political parties without having entered the Fund or been legislated to avoid these practices. First, in 2012, after the Organic Law 3/2015, the system of financing political parties has been reformed, significantly reducing public contributions; limiting business contributions, which, I insist, are at the origin of these irregularities; banning corporate donations to political parties; restricting the amount of private donations, and requiring more transparency. But as often as the law passes, the trap is done: it is forbidden to donate companies to political parties, but it continues to maintain the possibility that these donations are made to foundations linked to the political party. Some of us have already warned the Congress of Deputies that this was a false closure of the debate and that the situation that would end up allowing the continuity of irregular financing practices. Unfortunately, other parliamentary groups, among them, Convergence and Union, the People's Party, considered that it had gone too far at the time of banning business donations to political parties – literally, they could read in the minutes of those debates. And above all they vote against a proposal that some of us are going to put forward to ban corporate donations to foundations as well. And they did it with arguments that I hope some of them were in sustenance. The result is that today's Spanish legislation allows companies to donate to foundations linked to political parties, which is an indirect way of financing political parties for the back door. And, in addition, with less transparency: it allows the limit of the amount of donations that has been set from individuals to political parties to exist when it comes to girl donations to the foundations of political parties. I insist that I am neither criminalizing nor much less advocating general practice, because it is important to emphasize that not everyone behaves the same. But they're systemic practices, that's to say, they affect the system, and so we have to approach them. In fact, some of the scandals that are going on every day in Spain, also in Catalonia, recently..., and that some of the things that will be judged in the judicial sphere these own days have a lot to see with these irregular practices, and with legislation that has not only not stopped it, but has helped it. And it's true: what some do is legal, but continue to feel the door for the irregular financing of certain political parties. This alibi of legality is an alibi that we have constantly felt, especially in this Parliament. I recall that in the Permanent Chamber of 23 October 2015 the President of the Generalitat, Mr. Mas, appeared before the President of the Generalitat, to give account of the processes of awarding the Generalitat, and in concrete terms of the public enterprise Infrastructures of the Generalitat of Catalonia – you know what I refer to perfectly. The prosecution's investigations directly affected the Democratic Convergence of Catalonia. So, well, in that appearance, Mr. Mas, then President of the Generality, made some demonstrations that I would like today to remember and share with you, so that only they can justify the adoption of this initiative by our group. President Mas's literal words are as follows: "The foundation of Democratic Convergence, CatDem, is being investigated. Do you have any business inputs? The President But was asked rhetorically; and he himself replied to himself: "This is not to be investigated, this is true, this is true, it has never been imagined, it is at the skill of the party and the foundation, here it is absolutely nothing. And then, in response to Deputy Joan Herrera, added: "The girls' contributions to CatDem are legal and are among the legal brands. Don't you like this system? – he was rhetorically asking President Mas – "So, listen, that the law is changed. And if anyone doesn't agree, Herrera, to change the law; you have all the right to change it, but while the law isn't changing, these types of contributions, please or not... don't criminalize the contributions. The truth is, listen to this, Mr. But it's formally impeccable. But, of course, what a pity that the Lord But had at that time a memory problem, because he did many months that Convergence and Union had voted at the Congress of Deputies exactly against the proposal to ban corporate donations to political party foundations. Clearly, I think there's something behind this memory attack, and it's the will to continue with this status quo. The 2015 reform made the trap of allowing those behaviors that are prohibited in relation to political parties to continue through the foundations of political parties. Girl at the law, girl at the trap. This is why we have at these times an additional fourth provision of the Organic Law 3/2015 that makes it quite clear that it can be done, they can place these practices. What we present today Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, following the stele that other people have done in this very Parliament – I want to remind some of the initiatives of the Initiative Group for Catalonia Greens - United Left and Alternative –, or of the same group of Left Plural to the Congress of Deputies, it is precisely to offer them the possibility that we are this reality and that no one else can love under the argument that what we are doing is legal. It can be legal, it is not ethical; you know that they are not identical things from this point of view, they correspond to completely different spheres. What is the proposal we are proposing? Technically, it's very simple; politically, I think it's big, if it's allowed, and modestly, the opinion. First, we propose to reiterate once again the prohibition of donations to political parties by legal persons, by companies, eh? , that in the exercise of its business or professional activity has maintained contacts. But we also plan to ban these donations when they affect physical persons who maintain business or professional activities in the next four years with the Administration; for good reason. The second question: we plan to limit the donations of physical persons, private individuals, to the foundations of political parties – I insist: physical persons, now speaking – to a maximum of fifty_ thousand euros. Why? Because this is the limit set for donations to the political party. You don't have a sense of establishing a different limit, because if you don't, we'll open the trap door again. Girl at the law, girl at the trap. Thirdly, to increase the level of transparency of private donations, suggesting that from donations greater than five thousand euros should be communicated, in this case, to the organ of the Spanish State, which is the Court of Auditors; it is a state legislation. And four, and the one that I think is more important, clearly and firmly ban corporate donations to political party foundations, whatever the mechanism these foundations and political parties are related to. Why? So, quite simply, I think it's already made clear, to avoid this practical piece of law, piece of trap. Banning donations of political parties to political parties, authorizing donations of political parties to political party foundations, is financing by the way back. I am aware that the debate on the financing of political parties was not over with this approach. This is a debate that needs to be settled. Already the advances I believe that here the mixed public-private financing system has failed, and, therefore, we should all go to a reinforcement of the public-private financing system, which, moreover, is more equitable. But some have a lot of interest in charging policy and political parties because, ultimately, economic powers govern without any kind of control. And that's why it's so important that certain irregular behaviors of certain political parties don't give them the alibi to find a lot of people to the society that aims at this idea – I insist on it, in this sense – and therefore I am absolutely convinced that this can move forward. Miri, we are not naive: we are aware that the law alone does not end with practical determinations, does not end with corruption. Corruption is a highly mutant bacterium that adapts to the environment, and above all adapts and eludes enough the antibiotics of transparency and good democratic practices. But, in short, I believe that our obligation is to establish the bases because, at least, the law does not facilitate these irregular practices, does not facilitate the corruption of certain political parties, of certain people. In this sense, modestly, what we are doing in Catalonia Yes, it is possible to give the Parliament of Catalonia the opportunity to re-start this debate, to set it up in the area of the Congress of Deputies, because it is the area in which the ability to do this is located at this time. Obviously, we would not have any inconvenience in that with a different reality, of independence, therefore, this issue may be approved here, but for the moment we approve it, yes; that this is not an alibi for not doing it, from this perspective. I hope that with parliamentary processing all the groups that today do not object, do not do parliamentary filibusterism and carry this to Greek Kalendas, which is something that is done with other things, such as with the Electoral Law, eh? And I also hope – and I don't want to doubt anyone – that all of us who today agree with this law, then, if up at the Congress of Deputies, we vote for it, don't let it happen as it happened on other occasions, that what is said here has nothing to do with what is done there in Madrid. You know, I am very much in favour of saying: "Make sure that your left hand does not know what your right hand does. Okay. Ending the practices of irregular financing of certain political parties is, we believe, an essential key to avoiding a further step in the degradation of the political and democratic system that our country has seen. We are aware that 3_per_cent will be judicially judged on their own days, but we are also aware that if we want to avoid ourselves or old 3 percent, we need to change the law and that's what we offer them. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.175.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, to fix his position, has the words of Mr Antonio Espinosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.176.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, Counselor. Good afternoon, ladies and gentlemen. Despite the different amendments and reforms to the Law on the Financing of Political Parties that have already been carried out, the truth is that there continues to exist in citizens, in public opinion and of course in some parties the requirement to continue to make progress in a modification in the financing model of parties that avoids irregular financing and increases transparency. It is true that measures have been taken, but the facts show that they have been insufficient. Transparency measures; control measures of foundations; measures prohibiting links between parties, companies and financial power have been insufficient. Therefore, the demand to change party funding is not a whim, it is because it is a concern of people, of citizens. That concern is undoubtedly due to the social alarm that continues to be generated today by continuing allegations and corruption scandals related to the irregular financing of some parties. The concern is that most cases of corruption are found in the financing of certain parties, their foundations and entities associated with them. Foundations and linked entities are the current black hole in the financing of some parties. Look, corruption linked to the financing of political parties and their foundations exists throughout Spain. It affects a lot of parties, but it does not affect everyone; it certainly does not affect Citizens. Focusing on us in Catalonia, it is paradigmatic the Palau de la Música case, which is finally going to hold a trial shortly, and where, as you all know, administrative concessions were bound to lay hands and carry at least a 3-per-cent. In Catalonia, for many years, water concessions, motorways and other constructions served to finance a political party that has tried to wash its image by changing its name; before it was called "Convergence and now" PDECAT, but they do not deceive anyone. Catalonia's proposed law Yes, it is Pot that goes in the line of taking a step forward in improving the transparency and control of the financing of political parties. It is on the line and pursues the same objectives as Citizens. In Citizens we don't want parties to have B or extra-accountable accounts, which are now called some. In Citizens we do not want a single party to be financed through commissions obtained in exchange for concessions. We want to prevent any possibility that not a single party will cover commissions in exchange for concessions. Nor do we want political parties to be financed by donations made by legal persons. You know that while this possibility was eliminated with regard to political parties, it remained open as a back door for foundations, and this has continued to allow the parties to continue to finance themselves, albeit indirectly, from companies. In Citizens we think just like the vast majority of people, that when a company gives money to a party or its foundation it is in exchange for something. We don't think there's a board of directors that approves a donation to a party without expecting anything in return. We therefore believe that corporate donations should not be allowed to either parties or their foundations or related entities. Of course, in Citizens we are opposed to another form of irregular party funding. I'm talking about debt forgiveness. How is it possible for a bank or savings bank to forgive and not claim debt from a political party? In exchange for what is this forgiveness made? Of course, in exchange for nothing I'm sure I won't. The best way to separate politics and financial power is that there is no preferential treatment, but that the treatment of parties is like any citizen or company: the party that requests and grants a loan has to return it. That he is forgiven the debt and interest, that he is forgiven, in short, millions of euros makes it inevitable that political parties are directly linked with financial institutions. Therefore, in Citizens we are in favour of banning the waivers of bank and cash credits to political parties. Arrived here, allow me to tell you that Citizens pay their credits, that they do so without delay, and that allows us to be a party with clean and free hands to serve exclusively the interests of citizens. Also, we cannot talk about party funding without limiting electoral spending. There is a cry from the citizenry that electoral campaigns should be less expensive. Precisely because party funding is fundamentally public, huh? , the priority must be to save money to citizens, to save money to taxpayers. Less expensive electoral campaigns also involve more competition, as it opens up the possibility of competing electorally with parties with less funding capacity. I spoke at the beginning of my speech about the importance of transparency. It is necessary to bring the light and to put an end to the shadows in the financing of the parties. In the light of the public eye, the eyes of citizens, corruption finds much less possibilities. In Citizens we find it normal for citizens to demand better accountability from the parties, because that will undoubtedly force us to act better and more accurately, and in this way the responsibility of politicians and public officials is strengthened. That is why it is so important that the revenue and expenditure accounts are published on the party's own website, on a permanent and transparent basis, as soon as they have been approved by their respective governing bodies. On the website of the political parties, the annual accounts, dates on which the parties have forwarded their accounts to the Court of Auditors, the last audit report of the accounts issued by the Court of Auditors, annual budgets for the last two years with the corresponding budgetary settlement, information on the party's foundations, expenses and electoral revenues. All this has to be on the websites of the parties, it has to be genuinely transparent, it has to be part of the accountability that we owe to the citizenry. If we add to these measures on the financing of parties the separation of political life of those who are public or party office immediately that the resolution that agrees to the opening of an oral trial, in case of political corruption, is signed, and add that they cannot appear on electoral lists without public or party office the people against whom the oral trial agreement is signed, in case of political corruption, ladies and gentlemen, we will have taken a very important step to have parties, as I said before, with clean and free hands to truly fulfil their mandated role: to be fundamental instruments for political participation, for the expression of political pluralism and for the formation and manifestation of popular will. Good afternoon and thank you very much, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.177.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Spiny. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.178.0	Madam President... MPs, MPs, the Spanish Constitution, in its sixth article, recognizes political parties as institutions through which political pluralism is guaranteed, which is one of the fundamental values of our legal order. The political parties are therefore also responsible for ensuring, from our point of view, the representative quality of democratic institutions. We need and want more democratic, more open and transparent games, because if they're more open and more transparent, they're also some games that are more immune to corruption. And I think we need to listen to the demands of a society every time more demanding, and we need to respond with responsible and sensible answers, without concessions to either immobilism or populism. There is no democracy without democrats, but neither can there be any political parties or democratic parties. I think the big point is that political parties, as I said, are better immune to corruption or before corruption. And, therefore, in addition to strengthening internal democracy and internal controls, it is necessary, from our point of view, to deepen the financing reform, the financing model of political parties. The latest reform that was made in 2015 we believe it was a half way. Because reforming the funding model of political parties is not just a means to prevent corruption, but it must be used, from our point of view, to rebuild the link between identity and trust between the citizenry and the parties. In this sense, we are clearly betting on a sufficient public funding model, which can be complemented by small contributions of..., small amount come from physical people, and then I will explain how we see it from this point of view. We think it would be hot... we'll give support to the proposal made by Catalonia Yes, it's Pot. We have already announced that, in the process that is now under way, some considerations will be presented so that we can see whether it is possible to obtain a text that, rather than fixing these quantities or limitations of quantity that Mr Coscubiela explained to us, also makes some other types of proposals. We believe that it is necessary to link to the funding that the parties receive from the administrations, in addition to the election results in the name of ballots and ballots, elements of internal democracy of the parties, such as, for example, the celebration of primaries or real betting in the electoral lists. We believe that it would be good to establish a return tax rate for private contributions to the party, providing a return system for people who do not make the return declaration. That is to say, there are people who are not required to make the income statement for their tickets, because they do not arrive, and who make contributions like affiliates or affiliates to political parties. There should be a return system of these quotas, too. Regulate a micro-donation system via the Internet for donations of less than two-cents_euro, on an annual basis for each natural person, ensuring the identification of the donors before the control organ. Provide transparency to all public and private entries with a breakdown of contributions from donors, affiliates and public charges. Detailed expenditure with explicit indication of remuneration to internal managers and workers and workers, which is not regulated in the current funding system. Also, detail the external and operating expenses. And to inform the Court of Auditors on a quarterly basis, that at this time it is the taxing body of political parties, of all private rebuttal contributions, of the loans contracted and of the agreements for the renegotiation of the debts held by political parties with the financial entities. The Court of Auditors should immediately publish the missing information and identify the donors with a higher amount of EUR two hundred per year. We believe that it is necessary to establish a retention of all public subsidies in political parties that do not submit their accounts to the Court of Auditors. Regulate that parties that have been illegally financed through acts of corruption of their public or organic bodies are held liable for such acts. Establish the obligation for the political parties to publish the liquidation of expenses, election entries, taking into account a expense relief. Strengthen the control and taxation role of the Court of Auditors to audit in real time the accounts of political organisations and to provide them with greater sanctioning capacity. And strictly complement Greek recommendations on financial transparency of political parties. Also establish some modification, in this case in the Criminal Code, to lower the current minimum amount of the type of illegal financing of political parties as a crime. And finally, entering into one of the questions raised by Mr. Coscubala, which are donations to foundations linked to political parties, we also agree that donations from legal persons to foundations linked to political parties should be prohibited. Why has he been pale in the recent past, recently, that he served, huh? , for dubious legalization operations. Ethically, more than anything else, reprehensible. It will be the courts that will end up defining some other kind of conduct. But I think I need to go one more hair out there, taking advantage of this thought that opened up, huh? Because Mr. Coscubiela said: "2015 was a reform. And feta the law was looking for the mechanism for such a... – she was going to say feta the law, feta the trap, eh? – Well, subvert what we were talking about in that reform. Look, I'm going to propose to you in this debate that we're now opening up that, besides banning donations from corporations or legal persons to foundations linked to political parties, there's also some mechanism, huh? , which we will have to study, in order to prohibit donations from legal persons to private foundations, but that everyone knows that they may also be linked to political parties or to the operation or intellectual reflection of political parties. Thank you, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.179.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. The words of Ms. Esperança García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.180.0	Good afternoon. Members, Members, this bill will not have to pass through the filter of a vote; there is no mention of totality. This means that directly it will be relegated to ponència, and of ponència, so it will arrive, with the work done and the appearances and the improved text, it will pass to the Congress of Deputies. That said, it must be remembered – it has been said here, but I think it is important to say this – that precisely in this legislature the People's Party Government has made very profound reforms in the issue of the financing of political parties and, even so, the modification of the Criminal Code and the reinforcement of those political parties that have been illegally financed and that, therefore, have made use of this, let us say, doping – doping – to make electoral campaigns. In short, these seven articles presented by Catalonia Yes, it is possible to pretend to mark three master lines – or not so master lines; now let's see why I say it – to address respect for the financing of the parties. In the first place, reinforce the conflicts of interest between business and political parties. Secondly, let's face it, let's go, to what is the electoral doping to the electoral campaigns, which has often come to see with the topall that is fixed, maximum, to allow..., from financing to the electoral campaigns, but with the fact that it is not compatible nor is it accounted for without donations or contributions, even, that they were not economic and that they were of service and that, in the end, they were not a donation to all the effects. And for the third band, finally reinforce the penalty that must be imposed on the offenders. Black on white, which is the proposal, so it sounds pretty good, and not so much the letter, because the letter seems, with all respect, more poetry than not prose, and poetry serves much for electoral campaigns, but little in time to legislate and rule. And I say that for a very simple matter. I don't know if what they're claiming... I understand, but from the very intervention of the proposer, the proposing group, there's an intention behind this law that it's to liquidate the mixed funding system of political parties. And I think this is a possibility, it's a totally legitimate political option, but it has to be explained to the city what it wants to do. And if what you want to do is that the political parties are only financing with public money and, therefore, this assumes an increase in taxes, then Ishi has to explain. If that's not the intention, and it's just correcting what we already have, we'll finally find ourselves with a series of difficulties that I'll see about now, right? I think it's important that they make efforts to improve transparency and control, etc., right? And that is precisely why all of us who have participated in the Commission of Study against fraud and corruption that has been done in this Parliament have presented a series of conclusions. Surprisingly, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot has not presented any conclusions, or so, zero conclusions in a study commission that precisely went to improve the transparency and persecution of fraud and political corruption. But, said that, I imagine that with this you are already trying to fill in this lack of proposals in the Anti-Corruption Commission. What's it about, what's it about, what's it about, what's it better or, at least, what doesn't say this legislative proposal? It addresses the possibility of reducing the imports of donations to be communicated to the Court of Auditors – well, this is a possibility that we are not against – and establishing the prohibition of donation to companies that have contracted with the Public Administration with retroactive effects four years from the time the donation takes place. We have serious doubts that this four-year retroactivity can be applied, above all, to more, if we set the deadline to count back from what the donation is and not from what is accepted. This means that a donation, a game must accept it, when you know it's not like that. It is true that there are possible improvements of all the modifications that have been made to this legislature respect the financing of political parties, law of transparency and good governance and, finally, penal code, right? But the fact that political parties will not be able to accept, directly or indirectly – this has much to do with the text of this proposal – donations from private companies that you serve for public administration, nor from individuals who are part of the same group, which does not see with this proposal, I imagine, because, if not, it would be a repetition of legislation that is already in force. Also with this modification that was introduced to the Law on party financing was included the absolute prohibition of debt forgiveness by bank entities to political parties. I think that this is something that needs to be valued positively, because here in the chamber, and giving lessons of morality, there are many..., some parties that have received huge and very generous pardons from banking entities. Establishing the same rule, which is what you claim, establishing the same rule for party foundations that for the game, I think it has a series of complications in terms of legislation, basically because foundations have a very different legal regime than parties, but we think it's a positive thing, whenever it's remembered that foundations are already under taxation. Another thing is that, for example, the lords of Ciutadans, with the Civic Tribune, were four years without presenting the accounts of this foundation; but the reality is that there is a control, there is a control so much of the Madrid Court of Auditors, here, to the Union of Accounts, but, well, I seem correct that you want to improve it. I find it lacking that there is no reflection – now that we are reflecting all parliamentary groups on this proposal – on electoral coalitions. It is true that the electoral coalitions at the end are formed by parties, the parties are already more or less held to account, but the reality is that in the end, in an electoral campaign, the electoral coalitions operate practically with consolidated accounts, and we do not have this concern, in this project and in this proposal, to improve the control that is done to the electoral coalitions; I put for example Catalonia Yes it is possible, we can, Juntes per el Sí, etcetera. I think you're important. I think it is good that we take advantage of this reflection, that we take advantage of this transparency exercise that we all want to improve, with a legal framework that has already been greatly improved in this legislature, and that we talk about it and that we make comparisons and that the managers of political parties, unlike the Congress of Deputies, where certain political parties are opposed to being compared, they can also do so in this task that we will create and explain to us what we are going through, which are difficult and how it can be improved from the back to the back every three months, to publish the accounts on the web, etc. Now, I think we're trying to make a model that can be viable, that can be sent to the Congress of Deputies and that we have the opportunity to improve and not even stifle the function of not just political parties – when it comes to political parties, it looks like it's talk, go, a stranger to us, right? –, but the very workings of democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.181.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.182.0	Well, good afternoon. This same morning in Congress they say that corruption is not an isolated case, because, if so, from how many instances does corruption cease to be? We absolutely share that it is systemic, that it is structural, that corruption is the system or that the system is corrupt; we have said it many times. List of cases of Catalan countries linked solely to illegal financing of political parties – we refrain from listing other forms of public money misappropriation, corruption linked to urbanism, etc. Casino case, 1986, illegal financing, Democratic Convergence of Catalonia; archive. Prenafeta cases, 1990, incompatibilities, traffic of influences, irregular financing of Convergence and Union; archived. Case Up, 1992, indictment: illegal financing, ex-convergence and union advisers; filed. Cases Pallerols, 1994, illegal financing, charges linked to Democratic Union, assent, pact between the prosecution and the parties, very minimal prison penalties. CIEGSA, 2004, misappropriation of funds and illegal financing, Popular Party; under instruction. Tourism case, 2003, illegal financing, misappropriation of public funds, documentary falsification, prevarication, Democratic Union; two years in prison for each accused. Imelsa, 2005, illegal financing, People's Party; under instruction. Case Treball, 2008, falsified documentary and illegal financing, Democratic Union; absolution for some of its defendants and convictions for a few years for others. Case Palau, 2009, Democratic Convergence, the stable criminal pact with Ferrovial – let's not say we, I say tax –, Convergence has bailed out its fifteen territories; overture of the judiciary, he said, in short. Pretória case, 2009, illegal financing, bribery, corruption, money laundering, a rule of charges linked to Convergence and Union and the Socialist Party; pending trials. It is obvious to us that corruption has a structural character, to the country, to the Catalan countries, and to the joint of the Spanish State, and, therefore, to this character invalidates the thesis of rotten trees: this is from a cleaned cyst and there are some rotten trees that if we bring them out; that is not it. In the Catalan countries, of the 295 autonomous advisers who have been there ever since that there are rules of autonomy, fifty-one– fifty-one– have been accused; sentenced, only eight. Justice is quick for some, it's very slow for others, and the terms, we know, of filing and prescribing, in these cases, are very short. The result, therefore, is this. In any case, it's not fatality, it's not inevitable. Obviously, we can do a lot, we can modify laws, but I think we can go even further. We, that corruption is to the system, that it is systemic, or that the same system is corrupt, explain it, among many other reasons, because we believe that capitalism promotes the usurpation of public goods to place them in private hands, because the contexts of concentration of power make it easier for individualistic and selfish attitudes to exist, because when the boundary between the public and private sphere is diffused is much simpler also that institutions lose operation in the fight against fraud and corruption. Therefore, we understand that what needs to be done is to fight from every possible front and put all the measures to the bottom. We can do this or we can say that changing some laws is enough. And let's not say this is the group's speech proposing, but one of the interventions seemed to put more emphasis on not making things much more complicated and not twisting the functioning of political parties, which is not in the sense that we really have to do many more things than they do to fight corruption. Capitalism is concrete, it's like truth, it's concrete. And capitalism bases its economic system and the model of development on speculation, on mercantilization, on doing business with good as the soil, as water, as energy or public services. Terreny subscribed, as we say, for the transfer of public resources to private hands. Emilio Sánchez Ulled, the anti-corruption prosecutor in Barcelona, said that the zone of intercanvi, which is the capitalism of connivance, is where these current perversions of the institutional system can be found. We don't just say it ourselves, the prosecutor says it's against corruption in Barcelona. We know that this proposal to elevate the Congress does not intend to address all fronts, in I am familiar with the proposed group. In any case, and we who work to articulate a full _frame of sobrieties, in which we do not want to go to a higher instance to ask for modifications, too, we will not refuse to bring this modification to the Spanish Congress, because it is worth it that it is modified, nor that it is for the rest of the companies that live and that will continue living in the Spanish State. The fact that we want to take advantage of this global view of the corruption that we have to have and, therefore, with these systemic responses that we have to give to the fight against corruption, to put into value, precisely, the conclusions that we have just presented to the Commission for the Study of the Measures of Fight against Corruption for Democratic Regeneration, because we believe that they bring a very wide range of what are the areas in which we should intervene. And, therefore, we need to talk about public administration, we need to talk about the creation of control institutions, which do not exist; we need to talk about legislation on the grounds of representation; we need to talk about criminal policy; we need to talk about the legislation of companies; we need to talk about the administration of justice; we need to talk about more resources in the persecution of the fraud; we need to talk about the eradication of certain legal figures who support us or facilitate the omrrhythy, and a large etcetera. We know that in the debate we will not have the opportunity to address all these questions; yes, in these conclusions of the study committee, to which we obviously invite the rest of the political groups to support it. In concrete terms, what we will do in this debate is to take the measures of points 7.6 and 7.7, which we have listed in these conclusions, and which we will therefore have the opportunity to comment on. Just, finally, say two things. We, who are used to climbing prisons, because there are also people there, know that they are full of people who have been condemned and who are deprived of freedom for times against property. We don't see any politics. It is obvious that justice – and that I discuss with us who wants it, if it comes together, looking at us in the face – is classy. The prisoners are full of poor people and empty of politics. And a second. It's very easy to say that it's against corruption. I think that, at last, you can get to donate votes, present yourself as a political force that wants to end this sham. What's more difficult is that we find alliances when we want to end up with concerts, outsourcing and privatizations. It's hard enough for us to agree to end the rotating doors. Perhaps a good idea would be that the fight against corruption does not leave it in the hands of this chamber of political representation, carried it to the street. Because the street is full of people who would be willing to generate powerful controls over political representation. In fact, they are people who have nothing to lose and who are willing to win a fairer society. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.183.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. The words of Mr Albert Batet, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.184.0	Thank you very much, Your Honor. Honourable Counselor, deputies and deputies, very late at all. In the first place, manifest, already in entry, the gathering. We have not presented a report to the totality, Mr Coscubiela; therefore, like the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, we show the recollection to your proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of the Deputies this Law of modification on the financing of political parties. We agree with the points that you have suggested on the relationship of limiting that companies linked to the public sector can make donations, that's what we share; on the modification of the limit and the reduction of this limit of contributions and donations, we also share it; also with the limitation of foundations. More importantly, I think we should go further, we should also look at associations, unions, etc., other cultural entities that may also be linked to political parties, in this sense. And therefore, to lay down the whole legal, standard, legal framework in order to limit, frame and work an aspect that from this Parliament, from the Parliament of Catalonia, this legislature, I would say even some previous legislatures..., we have been pioneers in measures to put the legal and parliamentary structure of control in a strict way: from the creation of the Anti-Fraud Office, from the work that is fan of the Union of Accounts, from the work that is done here in the Parliament of Catalonia, from, for example, the commission in which it has been working and in which it is working in this same legislature, to the work that is done here in the Parliament of Catalonia, from, for example, the commission in which it has been working and in which it is working in this same Parliament, from the work that is done here in the Parliament of Catalonia, from, for example, the commission in which it has been working and in which it is working in this same Parliament, in the turn of this Committee of Study of Parliament, to the conclusion that the Council has not yet done by each group of democracy. In this sense, invite them also to participate, therefore, in these commissions of study of the Parliament of Catalonia and not only to go to the Spanish State to ask to reform a law, but also to do the parliamentary work that is nearby. Therefore, we are very clear – in fact, it marked our electoral program, of the Coalition of Junts for the Yes, of all the parties that we are part of and that we work in the same line –: we are totally in agreement to push us instruments of struggle against corruption and for greater transparency. We believe that there is a new law on the financing of political parties and we believe that we can reform it. We agree. And, therefore, we give them this visa today, presenting no address to the totality and giving recollection. And we totally agree, at times, that the current Spanish state mark is insufficient and does not allow adequate parliamentary and social control in these terms. Therefore, we agree, Mr. Coscubala, that we share this; our electoral programme, with which we have presented ourselves, from Juntes per el Si, that we want and believe that what is needed is a Catalan law on the financing of political parties. But, as you already know, unfortunately, we have no such competence. It's more, I think today's proposal that you're making us could be, at last, a more ambitious xic. There could be some measures of the work that has been done in committees, of the different study committees, of the conclusions that Parliament has made at this time; therefore, to try to move forward and to pull forward. Obviously, extending it not only to political parties, but also to cultural foundations and associations, entities, etc., trade unions, which also have links to political parties and which can also enter into this analysis and determination. And we could also improve aspects such as – and we would be willing to talk about it and consider it – are the obligations to respond with appropriate assets. And take serious action so that I'm clear and that it's the will of the surrounding Parliament of Catalonia in this respect. Or impose longer terms in prescribing crimes. I think it's a new brand where we could hear each other and work there. And, in this sense, our grasp is that, at last, it could be a more ambitious point, ever since his proposal. I also have to tell you, Mr. Coscubiela, that it is surely one of the points that differentiate us between you and us, between what Catalonia represents Yes, it is Pot and Juntes per el Yes, that you, Mr. Coscubiela, are a man of more faith than we are; you have more faith in the Spanish State. I mean, you're more willing to go and propose to Madrid, huh? Surely it's a small difference you have. But neither is he consistent with the report he said, because he said, "Listen to me, there have been two last changes and we disagree that when it is changed at the level of the Congress of Deputies this is correct and this is possible... we are not in compliance. That's what you said in your intervention. But, in turn, he wants to go to Madrid to change it so that he can push his political project forward in these terms. It's probably a little bit of differentiation, maybe it's a little morning, but for us it's substantial what it means. You have faith, you have hope in reforming the Spanish State and that the Spanish State can send a reform that can be adapted to the needs of the people of Catalonia, and we see that what is appropriate is that there is a law of financing a Catalan State that can be regulated from this Parliament, with full sovereignty from here. This hope and this faith we don't have. Nevertheless, we will not put you to the wheel, that you can go to Madrid and continue with this faith and hope that you have of transformation of the State. We trust that this could get better from here. The work that has been done must also be valued; the work that has been done in different commissions. That we have to build a brand, a new brand... that we have to build a new legal brand, a new legal brand, that among all of us we can build. I believe that, in this sense, there is a broad consensus, I would say..., I very much agree with all the interventions that have been made, coincided with many of them; for example, with Ciutadans, the Mr Espinosa, who said that he had also put his eye on the debt forgiveness of political parties; obviously, as it could not otherwise be, I fully agree with you, as with the different parts that have intervened. And, therefore, our recovery is, in this sense..., and an invitation also that among all of us we can build a new confidence mark to be able to regulate and determine who is the financing system most suited to the needs of the people of Catalonia. Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.185.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Batet. The proposal to present to the Bureau of the Congress of Deputies the Proposal for a Law amending Law 8/2007, on the financing of political parties, and the Organic Law 10/1995, of 23 November, of the Criminal Code, continues its processing. Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.186.0	For important contradictions with Mrs. Esperanza García and Mr. Batet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.187.0	Okay. See if we can do it, 30 seconds. [[The president laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.188.0	Thank you, Madam President. You see, we are deeply pleased that our initiative has generated so many deep reflections and ideas for doing things that exactly one year and a half ago you did not want to do and, moreover, vetoed them when others proposed them. Welcome back. I am a man of faith, of faith in humanity, and I will go where I am to try to solve the problems that you caused during your stay in Madrid – and they continue to provoke them – because you Madrid do not like people, except when you can get a good one; and this is what happened in 2015. And I clarify one thing that is very important, conceptual: we have never raised the disappearance of the mixed financing formula. The proof is that we keep the financing of private individuals in the parties and foundations; in prose or poetry, with my intervention or with the text, things are clear. What we really want is to prevent political parties from being the ones that decide the functioning of institutions..., forgive me, political parties, companies that decide the functioning of institutions. We prefer their citizens paying taxes, not companies buying political parties. It's our conception of democracy.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.189.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, we didn't. [[The president laughs.]] [[Question to the Government on the deployment of Law 11/2014, to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia]] [[300-00128/11]] The next item is the question to the Government on the deployment of Law 11/2014, in order to guarantee the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her has the word Ms. Marta Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.190.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, before starting, I would like to greet the people who are accompanying us today in the Chamber, especially the Observers against Homophobia and the members of the Socialist Party of Catalonia's Sectoral Group, who are about to arrive, because we are almost twenty-five minutes away today. Counselor, today we want to make this inquiry to get out of doubt and clarify where we're going, what we're missing and where we're going with Law 11/2014. Last week Congresswoman Violant Cervera, in an intervention in this House, said: « Mrs Moreta – referring to me – « The Law against Homophobia is a law that is unique in the world; at least to Europe, surely, and to the world, surely also. It costs a lot of their implementation between different spheres of government. It's a law that costs, it's true, but in Catalonia we can talk about the implementation of a law, which can't go anywhere else in the world. So, it's true, it's certainly not as fast as the same government would want, but at least the steps are firm. That's what Congresswoman Cervera said. So, then, we agree that we have an enviable law; enviable for many. But I'm sure we'd also agree that if no one spreads the rule, it's like we don't have it, right? Let us therefore speak of firm steps. The rights of the LGBTI collection are guaranteed, that's right. As the chairman of my parliamentary group and friend, Miquel Iceta, who wrote a few days ago, said: "They come out gay for television, they win prizes, they are only deputies, advisors of the Generality, and also – there is an afghage – "we can get married, and even in Catalonia we have a law against homophobia. And that's all right, but we're missing a real deployment of the law, Counselor. So, then, we define: we all know that the national council has been constituted for some time, but we are all familiar with its little activity. We do not know whether it meets when it touches, or whether all the collections are represented; we do not know what proposals and recommendations are being discussed; we do not know whether there have been extraordinary sessions in plenary. And look, Counselor, that we have unfortunately had many cases because they are doing extraordinary plenarys. And we follow, because I wouldn't want to stay on this issue alone: the decree regulating the sanctioning procedure provided for by the law has not yet been approved, although we do have a deleterious one. We also miss the specific protocol of action that makes real the duty of intervention of the Administration. And so the Observer against Homophobia, who is following us here today, held a meeting with you on September 2016, where you were given a proposal for an intervention protocol and no response. And, she said, neither did the LGBTI policy coordinator body provide for the law; nor was the protocol approved to deal fully and adequately with victims of sexual orientation, gender identity or gene expression attacks, and there is still no protocol to prevent and address homophobic bullying. And in order not to be so critical, counsel, I will give you the compliment because six days ago it was created the inter-departmental commission, and I would not want to be misconstrued, but..., at the time of Murphy's law: the Socialist Parliamentary Group asks the councillor to ask about the deployment of the law and, things of destiny, it is created the inter-departmental commission six days before the inquiry. Now, we're glad to hear that, because the first additional provision says that within two years of the entry into force of this law – that is to say, completed in 2016, the body coordinating LGBTI policies in the various departments of the Government of Catalonia has to assess the social impact of this law and make this assessment public. It is therefore obvious that we cannot have the assessment, because the committee has now been set up. And here, counselor, we're also late. We are truly alarmed by the slowness in its application and know that it can't be done at all, but we are really moving at steady steps, yes. Let me, Consellera Bassa, focus on some concrete cases to make him see why it is so necessary to make the deployment immediately. They follow insults, assaults, school bullying and social networks and suicides of teenagers and young people who can't take it anymore. Mass of people, still, victims, friends and families often suffer the silence, the pain imposed for others who feel unpunished. We can't keep our arms open. For example, it cannot be that the Generality subsidizes two Opus schools that offer homophobic books and that recommend to peers and students volumes that call LGBTI people abnormal. Finally, she would advise, and would like to put a point, in a chapter dedicated to relations with people of the same sex is described intrinsically negative and similar to the existence of people – alert – « sadists, kleptomen or pyramids. It is a clear example of discrimination and violation of Law 11/2014. I suppose you'll see that. I will remind you that the law says that in the field of education questions have been regulated because throughout the education system, such as those contained in school materials, such as references, in sports activities at school or in children or young people, the formative resources or in the formation of parents and seas are taken into account for affective and sexual diversity, and there is no discrimination whatsoever, and because there are measures to prevent and act against the provision that may be objected to by LGBTBI people, in the school environment, obviously. I guess the Teaching Department's gonna put a hand on it, huh? And another vivid example is not much in this Parliament: several parliamentary groups have proposed a manifesto to declare our enragement at Philippe Ariño's homophobic address to the Church of Santa Anna organized for the delegation of the young girl of the Archdiocese of Barcelona. Major surprise: it is demanded that the deputies of the chamber give support to this manifesto, and their government, counsel, is divided. They cannot be divided into this topic. And despite the fact that we asked that all the Members of the House, who were missing some of their parliamentary group, should have been supported by the Government too, because they were not aware of the two most responsible in terms of equality, Constellera Bassa, who today does not accompany us, and you, Constellera Bassa..., forgive me, Constellera Munté – forgive me, forgive me. The one who asks him, Consellera Bassa: what is the compromise? What is his political commitment, that of his government, that of Puigdemont and that of Junqueras, to implement this law? What's that? Under his pretext, there's no money. But is there the political will to deploy everything I've detailed to you? A good part of the unimplemented deployment commitments are not linked to funding. And, yes, obviously, economic resources are also needed. And here I would like to reflect on it: do you believe that it is a political priority that the Barcelona Assembly invests more money than the Generality in LGBTI policies? Do you really believe and does your government believe that LGBTI policies are a priority? I don't think so. The Barcelona Assembly dedicates 1_million_i_mig euros to these policies, while the Generalitat dedicates the xifra of 670,000_euros. Be late, counselor. We demand the Government of the Generality that it is committed in a real way to the LGBTBI rights, that it is taken the law seriously, that it is implemented, that it is enforced and that it is believed that the LGBTBI people have the same rights as the rest and that the Government of the country must be the first to make them complete. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.191.0	Thank you, Mrs. Moreta. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.192.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Member for your inquiry. The goal of the government plan is very clear and knows very well: the adoption of Law 11/2014, of October 10, which guarantees the rights of lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersexual to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, is an important adventure. And that's indisputable. It's indisputable to make a country free, because all people have the same rights, because people who suffer for the simple fact of esteem and feeling different don't stay that way. We do this with firm steps, and I will prove it there – I will prove it – in the same way that you ask me to say an inter-departmental call that comes a few days after you ask for the inquiry. Make it clear that the calls are fan earlier. First, there was an agreement of this committee, which was on November 8th, and asking for the inter-departmental summons, because there could be all the departments, was done fifteen days before the article of much esteemed Miquel Iceta appeared. So this first point I already have, so, I'm sorry, that it wasn't due to his request for an inquiry, because it was long before the summons had already come out. But we go every step because you see it's a steady step. First of all, I would like to thank you for making the inquiry because from a good principle we wanted to be clear with policies. The Director of Equality asked for a hearing with the Commission of Equality on May 17. It went so far as to say no – no, no – until October 11th. Picture's the priority when at the same department we ask for the appearance to explain the development of the law, and from May 17th to October 11th we do not give the possibility to explain it. So, anyway. You've made it clear that we've been working for a year. We are familiar with the processes and you are aware of them because you are in municipal governments, but you have also ruled the country, and you know what are the administrative and legal processes that exist and, therefore, I will explain exactly who is the problem or the absorptive of these cases that you say we do to do the procedures. From the outset, I believe that the firm step was to create the Directorate-General for Equality, which did not exist. And, therefore, this creation of Igualtat has put all efforts into the deployment of LGTBI policies. First of all, what has been done? The law's decree of procedure and penalties. You know it's six months of processing. This decree allows the development of articles 33, 34 and 35 of the Law. He worked through a group with experts from different backgrounds. We have two lawyers outside of the LGTBI movement and the same staff as the entire Directorate General of Equality. This may not count as a presupposition, but Chapter I is a presupposition and I can assure you. At present, the decree is in the public consultation phase, and you can consult it on the same website as the department because we have always said that we would be transparent and we would continue to feel it. This decree regulates the specific administrative procedure that recognises the specific needs of the complaint process. Second, the theme of meetings that you were commenting on. The LGTBI National Council is regulated by Article 7 of the Law, as well as participating organ and permanent consultation. I have a decree for your explanation, which you said to me: "They have not yet done so. It is true, however, despite this, this council has already met in four ordinary and one extraordinary sessions. He couldn't get the decree out for the processing time I just told him before. Six working groups have been set up: one of the big people, lesbians, indicators, territories, people and deployment of the same law. So there's a group. It's an organ that's already on the move. The council itself agreed to a decree text that is currently under public consultation – so you can consult it – prior to its processing. You know that these are the procedures to be carried out and, as an example, of the later extraordinary session I can explain to you that he presented and discussed the Equal Treatment and Non-Discrimination Law. Therefore, this proposal was approved in the national council and opened this period of work. You said that last week we set up the inter-departmental commission in a call from one of all departments so that we could name the people that were there to the commission, so before you get out the article that I was saying. I myself presided over him, so I can explain very well how he went. And in this there's a representation of all the departments, it didn't fail. With this order of things, too, tell him that we are working in all spheres. For example, the Department of Health – which you have not spoken about – has delivered 142 health cards with a heard name; 2015 had not named 12, so the rest – 81 to seniors and 49 to minors – are from this 2016; only this month, 2017, 8 more. Campaigns. One of the important issues is the issue of awareness; we are working. We are working on communication and awareness of people's rights through various channels. For example, I want to talk to you about the broadcast that is made to the whole population through the announcements to Spanish Television, 8TV, radio falcons to Catalonia Radio and RAC1 at maximum audience times, or a broadcast of the law through local television networks; also the broadcast of the law on online televisions; the publication of triptychs from the Treball Department, the same Directorate-General for Inspection, against discrimination and sexual orientation. But we didn't just stay in the broadcast. We have done training: training for different professionals and officials of the Administration in the rights of these collections, training for officials in the different departments of the Government of Catalonia, training and information on the right of direct intervention of public workers and training in the local administration, which some of the assemblies where you govern explain, because they have contributed directly to it. Currently we are in the phase of new design of formation, a specific design for local police, demanded from local authorities directly, for the Mosso d'Esquadra and for the enterprises of security; a design of professional formation for all professionals of the residences of great people, also demanded for the collection of LGTBI; design of training for the teacher of educational centers of Catalonia, beyond what there was so far, and take the perspective of genere for all professionals of the offices of attendance to the public of the Department of Treball, Social Centers and Families. In the contract program, which I have spoken about several times, the file of the LGTBI Law has been incorporated. It is a four-year programme contract, therefore, it went to five days – they have taken place from here – in Barcelona, local us technicians, in Tarragona, in the Lands of the Ebre, in Girona and in Lleida, and they will leave five days long these four years. The incorporation into the LGTBI municipal network. Terrassa, Ripollet, Sabadell, Cerdanyola, Berga, Barcelona, asked that, as the department, we entered there and, therefore, invited us to have a direct interview with all these municipalities and jointly promote the actions. I believe that this is not a matter of going apart or saying "you work more or "you work less, and so they heard it in the LGTBI municipal network, because the first one they did was to invite us in. Marked agreement has been presented for the development of local SAI, as stated in Article 9 of the Law. But don't end up here. The 13th of May signed a collaboration agreement with the Greuges Syndicate to speed up the processing of those complaints and office actions that drive the syndicate directly with LGTBI themes. So they come straight to the department and it's a lot faster than waiting for the report they're doing. It is clear that there is a dialogue between the syndic and the same department to discuss these issues. But there has also been a cooperation protocol with the hate crime and discrimination prosecutor, with whom we work directly, because, as you know, we can make complaints and administrative sanctions and we lack the criminal part. So, with this signature of protocol with the Odi criminal prosecutor, the criminal part will be clear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.193.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Moreta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.194.0	Counselor, you haven't made any reference to Teaching, have you? Not a reference to what he was commenting on the subject of books – not a reference. It seems quite – quite – important, at least, that in the second part I can make some consideration on this subject. I would also like, in this second intervention, to make HIV an issue. You said you didn't do anything about salvation. It's true, I was prepared for this second intervention. I would like to do this to HIV and other sexually transmitted infections because, if I'm not mistaken, it was approved yesterday – I would say it was yesterday – the 2016-2020 action plan on this issue. The concrete plan that the actions are aimed at improving monitoring, reducing the incidence and delay in the diagnosis, improving the integral attention and the promotion of social inclusion, and foresees interventions ranging from epidemiological surveillance to health and social care, through prevention and early diagnosis, directed above all to this collection, key to its impact. But, Commissioner, I have a very specific question: what are the economic resources that will be allocated to epidemiological surveillance? What about prevention? What about early diagnostics? I'd like us to have clear numbers, because we don't know how to see them. The assumptions that we need to adopt do not include pre-emptive treatment in at-risk people, as, in addition, you know that the various entities and associations did. And I would like to make a petition that is absolutely necessary: the Public Health Agency must be recovered to prevent it with the clear objective that there is no diminishing contribution in prevention. And why am I saying that? So, look, counsel, why does it increase the co-sponsorship of community services to people affected by AIDS? In some cases it has increased 250_euros. And, changing the subject, do you know that complaints of hate crime and discrimination, which you also spoke about, increased the city of Barcelona by 37_per_cent compared to the previous year, and complaints against xenophobic and homophobic attacks increased by 76_per_cent compared to the year 2015? We can't give any more excuses, Counselor. It can't be that we have a fantastic law that isn't unfolding. We have many shortcomings to apply and guarantee the rights of lesbians, gays, bisexuals, transgenderes and intersexuals and to eradicate homophobia, biphobia and transphobia, and now and here is the time to engage in real terms with these rights. We demand that you take the law more seriously, that you implement it and that you enforce it. I'm sure my report is shared throughout the LGTBI collection, of all political colors. And it's because it's true, because this government doesn't do the right thing and it didn't do it. That's right, just keep going to get the real law unfolding, and we'll encourage them to do it with determination and conviction. And finally, you're counting on us to work on rapeseed rape, on the Socialist Party, because we're always critical, but we're constructive, and we have a lot of nerve to immediately implement this law. Thank you very much, Members of Parliament.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.195.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Moreta. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.196.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congresswoman. I always count on the Socialist Party, I would just miss it. And I'm sure we can be on the side because at these times, as you say, there's a lot of complaints that's important that what we do is work together. We're talking about giving in, we're talking about what we have to do is go all to one and be able to work, because what we haven't done so far can be done from now on. And with that we'll be right next to you. The subject of the books that you tell me, I have no awareness of any complaint, but if you knew, in any case, I invite you to make the complaint so that we can act, because there is no complaint. Therefore, of the books he did not know absolutely well. And I'm quite frank, we know it from the start of having complaints, but they didn't get to us. As you say, "don't do it again, so I don't know if it refers, therefore, to the hundred and fifteen actions that have taken place at the length of this 2016, if it's not that it's known of the hundreds of speakers that have reached thousands of students, if it's that the change in this health model doesn't know what's going on. The attention to lesbian women who wish to be a mother until now had not been followed and now it is also there. The agreement with the heavyweight union, that must not be done again. The firm supports the municipal network, which I said before. The formation of the public workers I named him. The formation of teaching inspectors who for the first time have had training that never had. So, if that's charity and that's not... when you talk to me about the national council, it's thirty-one of the entities that participate in it. It's true, I don't know if you're there or not, but it's thirty-one entities. I think the Socialist Party isn't there. This government, I'm sorry to say, but it's made up of people who believe in the law. And they believe it from a first moment, and if not, just two themes or three of sensitisation, going out on the street. Never had a president of the government come out for a LGTBI theme. Our president did it. No one had ever done the protocols we've done, never designed the formation we've designed. Exit in the minute of silence in his parliament in Parliament with the motive of the murder of the club of Orlando, exit five councillors on the day commemorating the mourning of the people murdered at Plaça Sant Jaume for the first time this year. On the building of Parliament and the Generality, take the flag of the rainbow on June 28th, and on the different departments. Publish an official government manifesto to commemorate the International Day against Homophobia. I already know that you can say to me: "Listen, this is only visibility, but actions start with visibility, visibility and awareness. And here's where they are. From here we work, we work at most all together. It is the first government that is fully on the side of LGTBI movements, therefore the first government that makes institutional agreements and that is working day by day. As for what you asked for from the co-op, I think I explained very well in the appearance that I made of social matters. The law tells us there has to be a co-payment. The co-payment, by raising the amount of help we gave people to have, here, turns out to be the co-payment, but there is not a single person in Catalonia who pays co-payment. The level is so high that these 250_euros you see, if you ever find a person who pays them, you tell me, because, in principle, there is no one. It's just posed because it's the law of copaying in all the themes. So, don't worry: we're on the side of all the collections, we'll keep working, we've done a lot of work and we've encouraged him to file all the complaints, especially if he knows about these books; I'm surprised he's here and he's not here to report it. So let's wait for your complaint to get it out of the way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.197.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the policies of achilling in Catalonia]] [[300-00129/11]] The next item is the question to the Government of Catalonia on the policies to be adopted in Catalonia, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes it is Pot. To expose it has the word Lord Lluís Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.198.0	Thank you very much, President. Counselor, counselor... Well, we're talking about a refugee issue, and that means we're talking about an extremely sensitive issue, a drama of great proportions that affects the democratic consciousness of humanity and that has had a huge impact on Catalan society, and the mass demonstration of dissipation passed to the streets of Barcelona so show it. People were demanding the will to gather; in fact, we are already gathering, but the will to gather better and much more people. And, look, if in many questions our parliamentary force is critical and has its logical disagreements with the government, in this land we think that the concerns and willingness to be at the height of circumstances are widely shared. Therefore, I understand, counsel, counsel, this inquiry from the conviction that we must weave agreements and work to build folds from this chamber a good policy of gathering. And this reaction of the Catalan society is perhaps explained because in the faces of these thousands of men, women and children who cheat on the doors of Europe fleeing from war, misery and persecution, perhaps we can only find the image of all our people who have to cross the Pyrenees fleeing from the behest, or perhaps also because they embarrass us with the response of this Europe that shields and subcontracts its borders, which drains infernal tanks and which has ended up transforming the Mediterranean into a huge cemetery. A Europe in which institutions succumb to the pressures of an extreme right-wing ascent, which binds the efforts of the popular classes and the impoverished middle classes and assigns the other – immigrants, refugees, foreigners: the other – as a threat. A Europe where many governments and a lot of parties make a cowardly sort of vote between the votes they fear to lose and the lives of the people they seek asylum. And also, sense of doubt, because it blames us for the attitude of the Spanish Government, able to ignore the cry of indignation that provoke parties like the Tarajal, but unable to complete the limited agreements, the limited commitments, contracts with the European Union. Of the 17,000 people in Spain, only 8_per_cent, just over 700 people in total, were actually welcomed. In Catalonia, a total of 495 people have been received through the state refugee programme, and the year 2015 is 28. But precisely because of all this, and because of the extreme sensitivity of our society, we must be demanding with ourselves and with our own institutions. And we ask ourselves, are we really doing everything that we have to do and that we can do? The theme is too serious to frivolize or to run into any kind of demagogic in one sense or another, huh? No one can ignore, first of all, the limitations of the generality's competence; it is a fact, it is a reality. But neither can we invoke it by yielding to the temptation of a certain manic cophoism to take away our own responsibilities. The Catalan society and all those people who today need our solidarity deserve that we remain extremely strict. There is a first question concerning the State which, also, we cannot fail to raise. We think that this Parliament should forcefully demand that, as provided for in the same Statute of Catalonia, they continue to be transferred to the Generalitat, in proportion to the responsibilities that are close to us, the Community funds intended to help refugees in the Spanish State. If some recently published information is confirmed that part of this funding has been earmarked for the adequacy of foreign internment centres and other containment measures – said in another way: at the disposal of expulsion – this demand would be more than justified or twice justified. I would therefore like to hear it as an application of the most basic principles of subsidiarity, common sense and, in this case, justice. The knowledge of the territory, of its resources of all kinds, of the same collaborating entities in which it is collected so many times the Administration, makes the proximity become a primary factor of efficiency. But even with limited resources and skills, we think it's possible to do a lot of things. It is possible to paste and unplug, and it is possible to deploy effective actions. Look, one more time, it's the gatherings that are on the front line to deal with the situation of refugees who, for various ways and all ways, come to our home and are already a reality present among us. At Barcelona City Hall, and not the only one in the metropolitan area, there are no others– Prat, Sant Boi or Sabadell have also developed similar services–, we have a well illustrated example of this reality. The SAIER, the Service of Assistance to Immigrants, Emigrants and Refugees, which is an experienced and highly valued service at European level, has only in the course of the month of generation of encanny had to serve 566 people, 85_percent more than in the same period of 2016, in which it occupied, throughout the year, 2,292 people. Which means an increase and also involves a remarkable increase, of 46_per_cent, for which it pays attention to infants, which represents a particularly vulnerable collection in this movement of refugees, from 250 in 2015 to 364 in the past year. But for this very reason the municipal experience also provides us with the most accurate photograph of this reality. Punyant reports about refugee camps show us mostly Syrian or Afghan refugees, terrible images. But when we look at the concrete reality that we have in Barcelona, the collectivities that hold municipal services, therefore, have another festivity. The first collection of refugees is from Ukraine, followed by the Pakistanis, Salvadorans, Hondurans; only in five or if the Syrians arrive, which everyone has in mind as the most striking image of this movement of demand for solidarity. It is important, therefore, to have this complexity present to grasp the abst of the problem, but also to understand what we can do from Catalonia. Even though it does not deal many times with countries officially at war, the reality of the persecutions that affect them places them in an equally striking situation that needs our attention. The case of rape, to say the least, does not pass through bureaucratic thirst, and many times circumstances that are circumstances of persecution are not admitted as valid from the point of view of asylum demand. The year 2015 – is the last year of which we have conclorents–, on the set of requests for asylum rebuttals for the Spanish State, about fifteen_thousand requests, the 70_per_cent for rejections– the 70_per_cent for rejections. Probably, say some experts, the year following this proportion will have dropped. But the fact that the criteria of colliding are restricted or can see 'too often, even so, under political and diplomatic conditions – and the Sahrawis know something about it – helps us to understand the importance of the assistive devices that we should be able to build. Barcelona's experience is pretty significant, and if we're talking about it, it's because it embraces a wide range of different situations and gives us clues. The assembly had to adopt a whole plan, "Barcelona", a city of refuge, from which different programs are developed. The most known is Nausica, who intend to help precisely those people who do not enter the parameters of the asylum provided for by the State, or who have been expelled by administrative decision. This month of fever has added thirty-four nine seats to the forty-seven that were incorporated in October of last year, and a certain number is precisely reserved for people persecuted for their belonging to the LGTBI collection. This program has allowed to set up a whole series of collaboration agreements with entities and foundations to help refugees and migrations, such as the Catalan Refugee Assistance Commission, ACCEM, Initiatives Solidàries, Fiat, Benallar..., and set up a pool of resources and expertise. As an example, the suitable signature with various entities very recently constitutes a good model of symbiosis and operational work that could inspire us. With a municipal contribution of 150.000 euros, they manage about fifteen places, distributed on three floors, with a professional legal and social support team, which is what needs to be effectively monitored by these people. It is, we think, a device that has proved to be particularly well adapted to the real situations to which we refer, it is already those people who are pending their solution, their demand for refuge, or those who are found before a situation of negative response and who are Romanians also in our home, who are in fact passing from a situation of requesting asylum to a profile of a migrant in a situation of administrative irregularity, initial or surviving. It may be thought that long periods of settlement of asylum applications and frequent denials give little to particularly painful situations and lead to people who were in an advanced process of integration in some cases, even with work, to a level of uncertainty and extreme precariousness. Some of the people we find in the « top blanket in Barcelona are ancient asylum seekers, eh? We find that reality has this complexity and this festivity. Thus, the many tangential aspects of both situations draw a reality that obliges us to have an extensive and cross-sectional view of the differences between the ages of the policies of colliding. [[Sound the acoustic signal that the intervention time has run out.]] I'm here, Counselor. Then, in the reply, you would come up with some proposals, some suggestions for how to develop or how to land, huh? In the reality that we have to deal with. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.199.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.200.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Congressman. To thank him for the inquiry, because I think it's important, after the great demonstration of disbelief, when we all went out, it's important to keep talking to him. Things don't have to stay in one day, important issues are every day, and so thank you for asking us this question today. I'm sure together we'll find ways to improve what we're already doing as a government, what we're obviously doing next to locals, what we're obviously doing next to all the entities, and who we certainly agree on a lot of the issues that you've addressed. Agreements are shared, and here what we have to do is not shield borders, but backwards. And this shared agreement I believe that the country shares it totally, and disbanded, there were 160,000 people who came out, in that there were 300,000 or 500,000, it was a cry to differentiate us from other countries, where everyone here, all the citizens, is at the side to say: "We want to bond, and we want to bond more and better. Therefore, the entities and the governments have nothing more to do with us than to be in the service of the citizenry and, therefore, to be in the service of this cry of all together. That said, we also agree that the issue of state funding needs to be investigated. Actually, we've claimed it many times. Of the 3,500_million in Europe, which is 6,000_euro for every refugee who goes to the country, the 350_million fund that comes to the Spanish State has never known where it was going or what it is. Therefore, there was a cry and a complaint that we made every time we shared information with the Government of the Spanish State. And here I want to make it clear that we have been working day by day so that we can have this information. We've always said they didn't give it to us. The people who arrive refugees from the great human crisis, from the problem of war, currently, arrive at us..., who know about the vigil, with a fax, or that the entities have not informed us before. Therefore, the Government of the State in this matter is totally obscure, totally closed, and neither informs us nor forms, to say the least. So, we'll be right next door for all the observations we want to make. In fact, after the disbanding cry, what we wanted to do was for the organizers, and we made an agreement, that it was a government agreement yesterday, where we explained all the points of what we had been doing as a government, what we had always done side by side – and that's what I wanted to make very clear – of all the entities. We've never worked alone, it's all come from a committee of refugees where there are social entities, local administrations, all of them, who share the presidency of the Mayor of Barcelona and I myself, and we work together. It's a theme to work together, and that's why I'm saying what you're going to do next will be very welcome. You tell us about the Nausica programme of the Barcelona Assembly. It's a great program, in fact they put themselves in front of the next, but it's a program that continues the state program, it's a program that it does is to give continuity to the state program. We, like the Generalitat, have planned to take a step further. That's why we presented a Catalan program of refuges that we serve for the while, but also conceived for the future; a program inspired in Quebec, and we have said it clearly, we didn't invent it. It is a program in which social inclusion and employment, at the expense of competitions, are linguistic and social, in our country. And it's the program we're going to put in. But beyond that, as the Generality is quite clear that we have to work in three ways: we have to work at source – and here from the Department of Foreign Affairs they have done a great job to be able to work alongside the co-workers who are in the refugee camps, but we also have to be able to work in the border countries, where there is war – we have to work in transit and we have to work in colliding, because we have full skills to work in colliding. So, this is our proposal, and that's what we're doing. What do we have to give or guarantee refugees full welcome? We have specialized medical attention; therefore, from the Health Department we are working on it and we have made agreements. We have schooling at our hands, with the Department of Education. We have the deployment of an occupancy strategy that allows, from the first moment that the person is recognized as seeking international protection..., you can sign up for the SOC and, therefore, give him an orientation profile for the occupation. They can, therefore, participate in active employment policies and obtain even certificates of professionalism, which I would donate, in programs of reinstatement to work, an important adventure of the people. In fact, the example you've set of keeping... we're working from the Department of Labour and the Immigration Department to be able to make some business plans for this entire collection. We can hold the support programme for refugees; we have housing, we have said clearly: 1,250 places – for whom I do not make it clear – from these, three hundred in the state programme, practically occupied all, but 1,250 throughout the territory. We are talking about a minimum of 4,500 people that we can attend to, like a sifra that sees clausus numerus – which we could then discuss whether or not they should be there – of the European Community, therefore, of what we would have as inhabitants. But we are willing to embrace everyone I need. We also have the Service of Accompaniment to the University Recognition to do the advice or guidance in professional qualification, to be able to enter the universities, and the learning of Catalan language in the consortia of linguistic normalization. A line of grants to support the Erasmus programme for the development of international projects, involving representatives of entities and technicians from different governments of eleven countries, with the aim of creating an international network that can promote projects around the gathering and integration process of refugees. There's a lot of relevance in sensitizing everyone in Catalonia, and I'm not talking about the programs that make up the Department of Foreign Affairs, which, as I said... to work at the origin and to work in transit. Therefore, I will wait for the contributions you make to us so that we can continue the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.201.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.202.0	Thank you again, President. Yes, counsel, therefore, we try to land with some devices that we might have, perhaps, to speed up or strengthen. Look, with the suffocation of the Syrian war, he formed in his day a gathering committee under the Secretariat of Equality, Migration and Citizenship. And we have news, because it's been made public, of an idea that seems good to us in principle: a list of 1,800 people who are mentors. But, people who are still hot to form for the pocket they want to conjure up. And the idea, as I say, is not hurtful, but it is manifestly partial, in our opinion, and it would only take all its meaning in the mark of a more joint policy, of a more comprehensive policy, as one of its elements. Because mentors can be useful above all for a certain segment that is very large or particularly qualified as refugees, but not for the majority profile, which requires other constraints and other support. One thing we seem to say about 1,200 or 1,250 available places advertised. To have a list of different rooms, alberghs or locations more or less distributed in the territory does not exactly amount to having seats to accommodate. Who's supposed to finance these places? Whose are they from, with all these casts? In fact, we cannot talk about places without all the necessary support, support and legal support, assistance, format, etc. And that means qualified personnel, organization, direction, and assumptions. What we can't do is generalize and give for good a model that can cover certain emergencies, such as the well-known Casa Bloc of the Sant Adrià barri de Barcelona, where some 100 people are installed. However, it is there, in that case, that social entities pay a visit to the Generality and that they care for families with the resources that they have, basically, from subsidies from the State, from the European Union. This is far from the needs and the operation that we should be able to set up and set up. Nor is it clear to us– and we hope that this inquiry will be used to obtain some clarifications – the concrete allocation of the more than 5_million euros that 2017's assumptions aim, in the form of current transfers, at local level. We assume that it is a matter of..., or we believe that it is a matter of resources to deal with the combination of policies and services that they have to deal with the migratory fact, but not of a specific starting point devoted to the concrete problem of refugees. In short, we think we need to look to optimize..., and we need to work and discuss folds to optimize the resources we already have. And the first thing we think is that it would be safe to have a map as accurate as possible of the situation. That is to say, how many refugees we have in Catalonia today, of which nationalities, in which administrative situations, in which locations, with which concrete needs, how much money we are talking about and who are coming from, what is the need for attention that they claim from us, who are the real figures of the Generality's spending on matters. This mapping would be the first element: copying, exactly, the reality in all its complexity. The second question for us would be a good coordination. Lots of plans, huh? , and we have made many plans, but it would be a good coordination of the resources available for such an efficient work. You think we have the 2014 International Protection Plan, and the entities still claim to develop it; we have the Citizenship and Migration Plan, we have the committee that we had previously discussed. We think that what it is to put order, straighten the devices and, above all, equip them with resources. Our line of work, we insist, cannot be reduced to a hundred lively volunteers but needs to set objectives, establish effective coordination with the assemblies, establish agreements with the collaborating entities, design a professionalised support structure and, finally, think, a specific premise. And that could begin, perhaps, to speak and use immediately and resort to the contingency fund that foresees the assumptions that will be understated soon. In any case, we think it would be good to work at most on all these aspects of foreign affairs, in which the Generality can affect one way or another. Mr Oriol Amorós, the Secretary of Igualtat, Migration and Citizenship, said a few days ago that, in view of the movement of the migratory flows of the last time, we are not in the worst situation in numerical terms for what makes the irregularity, but for what makes the irregularity survive. There is a grey area where people who have lost their jobs and other asylum seekers find themselves in difficulty. Do we think that the status certificates can play a very important role in the regularization processes – we already wanted to insist on the Social Emergencies Plenary – and the assumptions of 2017 contain some elements in this sense, but is the Generality making every effort to speed up and make this support effective? And, finally, ending up making an element and a demand: it is certain that this depends on the State and that the situation, of the most distressing, that suffer the people who try to renew their..., or regularize their situation depends on the offices that care for them and that are responsible for the State, and that of Barcelona is particularly scandalous. We would ask the Generality to make the efforts and the pressures and the managements, all that are in its abyss, to end a situation or to help end a situation that is truly scandalous. Here are some of the elements we want to reflect on and hope that they can help us build a young man, let's hope, shared...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.203.0	You've run out of time, Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.204.0	...and useful. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.205.0	There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.206.0	Thank you, President. I'll start at the end. I am sure that we can work together, because our intention is that there is no differentiation policy on this issue, but that it is consensus, at most, because the demonstration of solidarity of the citizenry deserves it, and what we least expect at these times is that of the Parliament or that of the Government, there are toilets and no solutions. Therefore, we, for our band, all the support and, therefore, all possible solutions in order to be able to push forward on this issue. When I talked about the Catalan Refugee Program, maybe because I wasn't comfortable, I talked about the mentors, but the Catalan Refugee Program is much more than the mentors. I explained that it's what we have with the government and, therefore, what we can offer. So, when they say to us, "You can't embrace..., I wanted to start by explaining that from the public health network to schooling, to the issue of social services was important, that we could offer, and therefore we already had agreements with hospitals, we already had agreements. Anyway, when he explained places... and then I'll tell him a little bit about it. I have failed to explain a subject that we have spoken about many times, we have demanded... – and in the agreement that we presented yesterday as the government clearly said –, we demanded once and for all to the government, until we put a two-month deadline to the government of the State, because we were about 270, which we were when we were going to do..., shipments of refugees with problems of salvation, which here we could have a quick solution, which we had delivered last July, which we followed. They are full shippers with names, surnames and all the greetings on the side of these people who are in refugee camps; even when they told us they weren't localized, we replied that we sent them the phone or those people or Catalan co-operators who are on their side. Therefore, the agreement that we have made of government, that if they have not passed it, I will pass it or..., if you read, you will see that above to point out these points: that we demand that in two_mes all those people that can be located, that I suppose now, after half a year that it has been done will be less than 270, because obviously there is only for their vital project, badly, they have to take some way out of the camp, but all these, in two_months, arrive here, that we will gather them. The other, the subject of money, we've already said it. You're talking to me about the Catalan Refugee Programme. At this point, I can tell you that we have two thousand mentors and they will not be mentors of their own volition; they are people who have pointed out, however, as I said, they are inspired by this model of Quebec, a model that will be oriented to the side of professionals. The formation of this group of mentors... we're asking for a compromise in principle, because it's a four-hour weekly formation, because we think it's the least they'll have to devote to refugees. And, like the pilot program, like everything that has to start from little to little, thinking that it is a program that can be of the future, it will start with those who are now, at these times, finishing that state program... ; that in March they will find people who have been living together in a single building, that when you arrive it is good to be able to live in a group, but that then, at the end of a year of living there, you need to develop your vital project, of life. Therefore, it is not simply the assignment of a voluntary person, but of a group of mentors to each family unit, who will also make a plan of follow-up and evolution of individual plans of activity for all these refugees; for this reason I was talking about the work office, for this reason I was talking about schooling and salvation. And the signature of agreements, as it can't be otherwise, because mentor training is done by entities specialising in refugees, and joint ventures with refugees. Some of his themes... I think we've always talked about that it's not just a competition issue, because the biggest incompetence there is that at these times five thousand people die in the Mediterranean and we're discussing how we need to solve it. We'll be with the reason we do; we'll try to agree to it as much as possible, because I'm sure that what we're all looking for is effective solutions as quickly as possible, so that we can end this drama, that it's not just the tragedy of the refugees in the camps in Greece, that we have them here at the side, but it's... a planning of the future, because this drama will hardly be long ago. Yesterday... I also wanted to tell him that we have submitted the report of the migration step to the citizenry, a report that will be published on the website of the Secretary of Migration and Citizenship and that every three months will be updated, because the information with migrants, with refugees, is dynamic information and we want it to be open to everyone.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.207.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.208.0	Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.209.0	Thank you. [[Asking the Government about a Catalan republic of accompli]] [[300-00134/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on a collide Catalan republic, presented by the Parliamentary Group of the People's Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. To expose it, the word "Mrs. Gabriela Serra" has.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.210.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Thank you to the people you've stayed here to listen to this young man; very grateful. It starts to be a costume, already, that always touches me to talk after a same topic of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. We need to solve this, because here's one more mystery that always puts you first. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We are here to talk about what has been said about the refugee crisis, the refugee crisis. And we would like to begin by saying that, in any case, refugees are the consequence of a crisis, and they are the consequence of a crisis that is called a capitalist crisis; they are the consequence of this system that, with its desire and unstoppable greed, creates and has created crises that are multifaceted. We need to talk about three different crises, don't we? From the ecological crisis, which causes climate change, which causes natural disasters, which causes even floods, which causes destruction. An energetic crisis resulting from the voraciousness of this capitalist system in the search for natural resources and in the search for raw materials, which began with raw materials, perhaps, such as oil, the most well-known, the fight, the coltan, fossil fuels, etc. Predatory policies and contaminating policies, all of them, which more than generate a third crisis, which is the great social crisis; social crisis, the result of impoverishment, exploitation, the result of dissent in this predatory system, the result of the violation of human rights, the result of all these multifaceted ways. But they've found a solution. They have found a solution to control these crises and the response to these crises. They have found the historical solution: the solution of war, the solution of armies. And why? Because the military hand, obviously, did not end with the poor, but with the poor; it did not end with the cause of the dissent, but with the dissidents; it did not end with the origin of what it causes, but with the consequences of what we have before. And it's funny, isn't it? , because in this flight, military hand, certainly fix crisis so quickly larceny dictators, we pay dictators, pay dictators– Saddam Hussein, Ben Ali, etcetera–, as soon as, then, the same ones that have larcenized them accuse them of terrorists and destroyers. But, despite these crises, the socialist capitalist system against toxuderia: the toddlership of the people, the toddlership of the outcasts, the toddlership of the people who want to exercise their right to life, to dignity, to live freely, to think that they can have a future. All this glue of people leaving, navigating, navigating, walking, piling up and finally arriving, arriving at a crowded place. And seek to be recognizable and seek to be supported. And what do we do? So, we categorize them, we make a categorization policy. And, to a certain extent – to a certain extent – and in the good sense of the word, when we talk about the current refugees, when we talk about the wave of current refugees we are oblivious to the fact that the issue of the people who come out and leave their people, their countries, is not a new thing. Before the war in Syria, before the war in Afghanistan, we already had hundreds and thousands of immigrant people coming, we already had people coming from other places. Why? Because they came from a long way, and this process, the migration process, is a process that has begun and has come, but it has come to stay, not change. But here we categorize them, and at the southern border we say: "If you are black, do not cross the border. And to the other border we say, "If you are not a Syrian, we cannot gather you. And to the other place we say: "No, if you're a human being, you don't have a refugee status, and if you're LGTBI you can't either. We categorize – categorize – we differentiate patients, and categorize sufferings and categorize injustices. I want to read the first article of the 67 protocol conviction, which provides the definition of refugee and says: "A person... – what is refugee? – "a person who, because of one reason, must be persecuted for reasons of race, religion, nationality, belonging to a social group or political opinion, etc. This is a refugee. So, a social group..., women are a specific social group that we have very concrete causes just like women to run away, without the need for war, because we are in permanent war with patriarchy, even though I don't always cheat. From time to time, they pull them off. Social groups are all those women who are, today, linked and oppressed by the trafficking networks of human beings. Social groups are simply the poor. Social groups are those people who have seen moguds from their territories, their peoples, their lands. These are all social groups. Therefore, "refugee is all, all, everyone seeking protection, seeking help and seeking to be able to exercise their rights. But what's going on? Because, of course, this isn't always war; it's also deliberate, apparently peaceful intervention, and many times apparently with anniversaries of development, that we make from these very countries that today we categorize those who must be immigrants. We're... we're directly involved, for example, with wars. We..., and this Parliament approved – it approved the July of last year – a proposal for « demilitarizem Catalunya, this Catalonia that we want demilitarized, we speak concretely of Catalan companies, like Indra, that participate actively in the war of Syria. But not only do they actively participate in creating highly specialized, electronic components for weapons coming to the Ministry of Defence and to the Spanish and some European arms industries, which are later coming to Turkey, to Arabia, to Egypt, to Qatar, and which are being used in Syria, but, moreover, it is a company which, together with Finmeccanica, Airbus, Thales, benefits from the research projects on development in order to make, precisely, all the design of immigration control policies in Europe. So, we're contributing. This is a Catalan company. We have eight Catalan companies that make weapons components, that serve the Spanish army and that the Spanish army serves, come to many of these countries that are in dispute. So there's something we can do here. Something we should be able to do. There is not enough to say, as we approved, that we do not have to grant aid and we do not have to promote the activity of these military industries, but we have to pay, somehow, for this action. But we also have another way of intervening and creating refugees, and they are our businesses, these no longer military. We have Agbar, which produces great social problems, great problems to the communities, with Andean Waters, to Xile ; with Coast Waters, to Uruguay ; with Saltillo Waters, to Mexico ; with Cartagena Waters, to Colombia ; with Provincial Waters, to Argentina, etcetera. We have companies, like TCB, with its subsidiary TCBuen, to Buenaventura, to Colombia, the most important port there is to the Pacific, which is provocative and has provoked, and has been denounced before the Colombian Human Rights Commission, displacements, disappearances, deaths, destroyed communities, and which is collaborating, in a way that can be demonstrated, with paramilitaries. They are the macro-projects of the multinationals, they are the macro-projects that collide, that collide and that defend themselves among the favorable questions that give them the free trade treatises. This morning we were talking about one of them, the Zeta. We have Mango – Mango –, the richest Catalan in Catalonia, Mr.Isak Andic. Mango, a Catalan company which has 1,500 people in Turkey and which, disarrayably, has a contracted company, Gore-Tex textiles, which contracts Syrian refugees working twelve hours a day without the necessary protection material. They work in a factory that manufactures and manufactures Texan finishes, and therefore work with toxic chemicals. It doesn't happen—it doesn't happen—it doesn't cause misery. We also have – we also have – Fenosa Union. Union Fenosa to Nicaragua and Guatemala. Fenosa Union that has been able to leave more than one hundred communities without serving, with such permanent electricity, that has had to move citizens and communities to their localities and that has caused the murder of seven people who objected to the activity of this company. By chance, Union Fenosa was brought before the Permanent Court of the Peoples in 2010 and was charged. We could continue with our businesses, we could continue; we have, and something can do with this, something we have to do. But, we ask ourselves, who's winning with all this politics, and who's winning? And what do we spend on all this...? Where's the deal to raise walls and raise borders? And let's start: only Ceuta and Melilla's tanks cost us 72_million between 2005 and 2013– 24 per Ceuta, 47 per Melilla. Detaining and deporting migrants and refugees has cost 49_million annually – President Rajoy acknowledged it on a question from the deputy of Amaiur. Other important facts: The Migrants Files – forgive the English accent, it is not my strong one – that it is a consortium of journalists from two European countries who denounce and can demonstrate that the benefits of the mafias that carry people from the countries from which they came out total 15,700_million in the last fifteen years; that the expulsion and repatriation policies as at least 11,300_million since the year 2000. Let's continue, more closely, to our days, data from SOS Racisme: the centers of international impresoniment out of the house...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.211.0	Lady Serra, I'm having a hard time. He'll go on after that, but he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.212.0	Good. We'll move on later.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.213.0	I'm having a hard time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.214.0	Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.215.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.216.0	Thank you very much, President. Counsellor, Director General of Cooperation, there was also the Secretary of Immigration, who was accompanying us until now, deputies, deputies and especially deputy and friend Gabriela Serra, once more I thank him for the opportunity to expand the focus, to be able to talk about structural things, the causes of many of the circumstances that we have to deeply regret and that badly at these times are absolutely present in our day-to-day lives. It is obvious that we have a circumstance that has clearly manifested another time the will of this country, of society, of people, of people to want to build a reality, a society based on solidarity, respect and, above all, on the will to gather. But not only in the will to gather because there is a win, because there is a need for it, because there is a past history, because there are heredities and DNA that naturally make us a society of gathering, but only because at these times there are structural causes that, as you well summed up in these minutes, justify that there is a global response; claim that there is a global response. Therefore, from the perspective of the mobilizations that have taken place these days, from the campaign led by 'Our house, your house, but not only, but also for all those entities that have been complaining and working for years, that have been working and demanding, precisely, an answer from the institutions to the height of the great problems that we have, to me seems to be today, a more time, we have to do, first of all, a self-affirmation of this will, and at the same time to put clearly proposals on the table. And I thank him in those terms precisely for the opportunity that he gives us to be able to expand the focus. The arrival of people is a problem, but the real problem is that people have to leave their homes for reasons that they have to see with the poor, with persecution, with discrimination, with inequality, with wars, with violence. And that's not today's phenomenon, it's unfortunately a phenomenon we've been on for a long time. That there are 60 million people who have to leave their homes is not a punctual or circumstantial fact, it is already a structural reality that needs to be attacked. It is also an absolutely indisputable evidence and fact that the vast majority of these people, 40_million, to sum up, are either left out of the country, in other words, where they come from, or in the region. Therefore, the vast majority of them are either internally displaced or directly located near home because there is a fundamental reason in this decision, which is the will of course to return when it follows... as before better at home. And this is one aspect that as a government, as a country, as institutions, we cannot escape: when we worry about what happens around the issue of the migratory fact in general and particularly the situations that people who seek asylum see, we cannot forget that fact. At these times we have a very visible circumstance, very present in the media and in the public reports, which is the Syrian war. But it's also a fact of the day; as early as 2011, as we know, from the Arab Springs, there began to be an appearance of multiple scenes and beautiful actors that, as explained at the time already by the UNHCR – and I'm talking about five years ago – led to the displacement of 5_million people at the internal level, and at the regional level, of 4_million, who accumulated in refugee camps, which were distributed between Jordan, Turkey, Lebanon or Iraq. That's where you work, too. Since 2015, there has been a phenomenon that, out of fatigue and vital need, obviously, has caused many of these people to start a dangerous adventure, for some of them absolutely dramatic and with an absolute end, I think, did not wish for anyone. Around 800,000 people began to be called "on their way to Europe looking for opportunities that, obviously, they did not have where they were and before the impossibility of being able to return home. Those images – those images – led to the awakening of many consciences, but, I repeat, a lot of ugly people who were working there for a long time, already; a lot of time that worked not only in Syria, but in the countries of the world. This is the reason why since 2015, when there was this presentation of requests and also this new visualization of the drama, which does not mean that the drama already existed – the drama already existed, the drama existed – there was a series of actions that I seem important to remember, already in 2015: campaigns destined for the part of the entities and the organizations to improve the living conditions of the people in the camps of Turkey, Lebanon, Jordan or Iraq. At the same time, guarantee, assure, work so that there are safe lives and in better conditions, the Balkan route, the route of Greece. The preparation of the plans to gather that were to ensure that when the people arrived, and that at those times they were already complaining because they were already coming, because, as you very well have said and before Congressman Rabell also remembered, they are already coming. It's not to come, it's to come continuously. But finally there is one element that seems to me as important as the previous ones, that is the need – and you in fact, too – to end up with stigma, with categorization; to face a public speech, to face a public relationship that runs through this fallacy that sees there is an invasion of people. That's just not true, but it's more immoral. To Lebanon – 4_million people –, 1_million are refugees and come from Syria. The deployment of people at those times has been the result, precisely, of many of the policies that we have made and led and pushed, some clearly unpunished, on the part of the European Union. And say that it says a thousand people, that they are the quota, wrongly named, that accepted the Spanish State, is an invasion? That is not just, I repeat, unacceptable, but clearly immoral. And it's before this reality that people are rebellious. And it is before this reality that the institutions, at least the one we represent in this chamber, rebel us. And it is before this reality that we demand not only a change in the report, that it is very important and that I remember that in this chamber and in the Spanish State and many governments and many political fronts of the European Union are escaping this absolutely regrettable view of what the arrival of people means, against which we must fight. And that is precisely why the policies that have been put forward by Mrs Bassa are not only essential and necessary, but, obviously, and we say it ourselves, they are insufficient; of course they are. Because while there are 60 million people to run away from their homes, it is obvious that anything they do will be insufficient. That is why the agreement we reached yesterday is so important and that, in fact, it is a demand from many entities, but it is also a compromise on the part of this government. But there is also a very important thing: that in this year that we carry, or year and year, of Government, there have been some measures that we are about, and obviously a circumstance that I should say personally that I would prefer that it was not what it is, that is, with a particularly limited presuppositional situation and that we hope to resolve and that we want to resolve and that, therefore, we also want to make it available to these requests, as Mr Rabell also very well and in a timely manner, but that he also recalled that in terms of resources it is important to have the priorities, as Mrs Serra said. Precisely with this will of work in a concerted way, precisely because of this conviction that if we do not make a trans-institutional, global approach, of country before this reality we will not get out of it, precisely because we believe this, we have promoted a trans-institutional initiative, together with the Barcelona Assembly, with the Diputation, with the Metropolitan Area, with the Catalan Cooperation Fund to work together with Lebanon, in projects with UNDP, United Nations, and also with the fifteen NGOs that at these times are working on the land; 1.60.000_euros, there is no proof. Certainly, there is not enough, and there will never be enough, I repeat, while the data are what we are seeing. But precisely also because this is important to face up to and appreciate it from the structural perspective that we have proposed, and we have presented it this week, the need to adopt a strategy of responsibility also for the role that Catalan companies do abroad. It's also true, and that's not enough. And he won't have enough. And because all this is not enough, we have set out the will to equip ourselves with those instruments and those tools that the states have today to be able to do those policies that, from the point of view of the response to structural problems, can face. And there won't be enough of that. That is why it is so important that we have very clear who are the real needs, the real demands, the real emergencies, and that at the same time we have clear who are the tools that we need, if we do not have them, to equip ourselves - and above all, we have very clear who is the political will that must be behind all these actions to face up to, not to the final consequences, but to stop, all these problems. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.217.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. There's the word "Mrs. Serra."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.218.0	So, counselor, let's put the needle on, but let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, let's put it on, The creation of the evaluation centre of Catalan companies abroad cannot wait, cannot wait until the action plan of companies is made, cannot wait; it must be done now because the performance of companies does not stop, does not stop, continues and, therefore, continues to generate inequality, discomfort, etc., right? I'd like to remember, because I couldn't finish and I'm going to be in a hurry right now, but with the business of the crowd, right? Look, when we say we don't have money, when we say that, as the State, we follow because we don't have competition, we don't get the cost of the CIEs, of the international business centers that run away from home, it's 34_million annually. And of these 34_million annually, 12_million are for migrants' deportation flights. And who benefits from these 12_millions? So, look: Air Europa, Clínica Madrid and ACS Florentino Pérez. These are the businesses that benefit from the gesture of returning immigrants. You know that the Spanish State is the first European country to be able to expel immigrants, right? That's important. We have to think that Frontex, the police that watches and controls, has a profoundly spectacular name, I didn't know: European Agency for the Management of Operational Cooperation to the External Borders; take it, that's all. Well, therefore, this operational cooperation has a cost of 254_millions in 2016, when the same European Union has only allocated 83_millions to the assistance of refugees in Greece. That's right, he's given 6,000_million to Erdogan to Turkey and that's why we're closing the eyes, the government's closing the eyes before the massacre with the Kurdish people and before the autocop and everything that caused the trouble in Turkey. That's what it can't be. There are things that we can talk about, after we talk about directives, we talk about transpositions, we talk about developing regulations, we talk about asking for the right of asylum, the law of right of asylum, we talk about regulating the integration of victims, we talk about alternative forecasts, we talk about... But there are things that you can already do, not just the Barcelona Assembly, that you don't have to, but we have a network of communities that are an indispensable and phonenal element for colliding with dignity, for colliding with tenderness, for colliding with companionship, for colliding with will to colliding; not with the obligation to collate, but to colliding with will. And I'm worried, we're worried a little when we say we can't do a lot of things and we don't dare very much to take away certain limits that we have. I want to remind you that we did a considerable act of disobedience on 9-N 2016, and we said, at point 7: "Unless we can respond to the difficult humanitarian situation faced by refugees, the future government must generate a framework of relations with the United Nations High Commission for Refugees with the aim of giving welcome and asylum to the highest number of refugees beyond the decisions taken in this area by the Spanish Government. That was an act of disobedience and, therefore, now what we have to do is very obedient with a voluntary act of disobedience and, therefore, I think that this is a way that we should do because among other things we are disobeying who we are disobeying, that the government is disobeying who we are disobeying to obey an empire that is much more important, that is the moral imperative of making everyone right in the exercise of their rights. Refugees, immigrants and refugees have this right. Let's make it easier for them. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.219.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Serra. There's the word the Romeva Councilman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.220.0	Absolutely right, we have a problem with what it does to the European project, it does. You're huge, you're great. I have been able to live and live for many years in my time as a Member of the European Parliament. I will also say to him: the problem is not Europe in an age-old way, the problem is the states that at this time prevent Europe from doing precisely many of the things I think it should do as planned. But it's not just a competition problem, it's a concept problem. And this is the background problem – this is the background problem – because the great difficulty that some of us today have in being able to do many of the things that we are right – right – precisely in this perception that has settled not only in institutions, but in a good part of society, to relate directly security to persecution of freedoms. The CIEs are that. That's why we want to lock them up. That is why this Parliament has adopted a resolution calling for it to be tanchine. And that's why there's a clearly social majority here that says that these centers, which are nothing more than covert prisons, are tanchinous, not just for what it means but for everything that you have to see with the conception of what it means rights and freedoms in a world like today. Therefore, absolutely agree when you denounce and I join and subscribe and I make all my thoughts around not only the cost of this centre, but also the very existence of centres such as the CIEs and other similar ones. We could say the same about Frontex. Frontex, we've seen, is not in any case a structure that is meant to save lives. In fact, we are constantly seeing this because precisely who takes the people from the sea and saves lives to the sea is not exactly Frontex, they are not exactly the ships of Frontex, but they are precisely every time more ships that they have to see with voluntary, supportive character activities that respond to the will of civil society and that then, these people, yes, deliver these people to Frontex so that they can disembark with all that this means in many ways. The problem we have is that today these people cannot move freely from Europe because there are regulations, there are principles in Dublin that prevent, precisely, these people from being able to move and to force, which is not only denunciable but that we must face politically already, that the person who asks for asylum in a country can only be managed for that country, which shows that there is a problem, I repeat, structural for what it means to the same idea, to the same European, basic, concept. And that there is no justification either in today's world or in the world we want to build, at least a few, and for which some have long since worked from very different fronts. And this is for me the great reality that we have to face. You identified the possibility or need to take decisive action. Totally fine. Listen, those who come from the world, precisely, from the conscientious objection and the anti-militarist struggle of this we have not made the flag for a long time. Therefore, it is not a problem – it is not a problem – to confront standards. Some of us in this House already have different insights precisely because we don't have to disobey when the consequences, of course, come back to us. And actually, I think there are times when it's time to do it – there are times when it's time to do it. Therefore, it is not a problem of willfulness, in absolute – in absolute. And you seem to know that because you also share, precisely, this determination to face the decisions that are near when it comes to facing them. But I repeat that for me the problem is not going back to this. For me, the problem, in its structural dimension, is often in the conception or understanding that the causes that exist today in these installed moments of the planet for the practices that we owe to the term or for the impunity with which it is due to the term and to which no answer is given in a way relevant to the current marks – institutional, competitive, what follows, is equal to me – call for a universal and global response and, therefore, a very large-scale alliance to be able to face it, each one of its dimensions. And ours is what it is and it can be much more. From this perspective, the willingness to work precisely to face the causes of the absolute conviction that more than anything we do is enough, has it all, all, all. I repeat and repeat that if in this case more can be done, there is no doubt that we will do them and that, in fact, many of them are already being done. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-02-22-3001.221.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Thank you all very much. And they suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
