ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.1.0	The session begins. Mr. Carrizosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.2.0	On a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.3.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.4.0	It seems that the Junts pel Si i CUP political parties have invited quite a few guests to the sessions of this plenary, which I do not know if, in addition, they have been added to other guests of other bodies. And the case is that these guests were shouting loud, full-lung sounds in the hall of events, audibly throughout this Parliament, in favour of independence. I call on these people to abide by the minimum standards of coexistence, that respect democracy, that they do not make constitutional parliamentarians, that we are defending the Constitution and democracy, to be coerced into the way we can make our claims and the presentation of our ideas. We do not like Parliament to look like the seat of the Republican Left, or of the ANC, or of Junts for Yes. [[Greetings.]] I'm done. We have submitted a letter by Registry requesting that it be ensured that we can exercise our right without feeling coerced by the guests of those who today claim to declare independence illegally in Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.5.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've already been informed and given orders that you will respect and, therefore... all security measures, okay? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I mean, there has been a unanimous agreement of the Bureau, by unanimous agreement of the Bureau we have called for respect for order and respect for what we are doing in this Parliament; therefore, all security measures have already been taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.6.0	Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.7.0	Yes, Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.8.0	I hope, Madam President, that, if the least is changed, or if the guests in the rostrum show evidence of reprobation or approval towards what any of the speakers say, they will be called to order and expelled from the Chamber to ensure that we can discuss democratically in this legislative assembly and not as if it were an assembly held, I repeat, in Ómnium Cultural, in the ANC, in the CUPs or in one of their closed-door meetings. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.9.0	Mr. Carrizosa, I have no doubt that the public will behave correctly. And let's start... yes, Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.10.0	On a point of order, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.11.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.12.0	Simply to add to what Mr Carrizosa has said, an anecdote that perfectly reflects the sectarianism that is lived and that, unfortunately, you are practicing throughout this legislature. Our group has asked for the participation, in the rostrum or in other places of the Parliament, attached rooms, during the plenary session, several people. There have been two..., we have asked eight, and two have not been allowed in because they said they were not fit and, instead, they are allowed in seven hundred. What is that proportionality? What flagrant injustice. [[Greetings.]] And add one thing – add one thing – if it's okay to take care of me, because neither is that. [[Widow's remorse.]] Well, then let me..., let me stop, let me stop...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.13.0	No, I'm told it's not like that.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.14.0	Look, look, I'm going to add a question. When we were at the Spokesman's Meeting, you reported that you had asked, to the people who were in the room, screaming, to stop. They've yelled twice again. How do you interpret that? Do you not have the ability or the ability to tell them to abandon Parliament or to make drastic decisions about it, towards the groups that have driven the presence on a day like today, precisely? Do you imagine that all of us would be given to bring here two hundred, three hundred people and turn this into the taking of the Bastille? But what have you thought? [[Some applause.]] We ask you for a minimum of parliamentary decorum, even today, which is an extraordinarily sad day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.15.0	That's right, Mr. Fernández. Thank you very much. [[General debate on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia and its possible effects (continuation)]] [[255-00004/11]] General debate on the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution to Catalonia and its possible effects. In accordance with Rule 152.3 of the Rules of Procedure, for the defence of the motions for resolutions submitted, has the word, for a maximum time of two minutes, Mrs Carlos Carrizosa, in representation of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.16.0	Thank you. Today, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the public, ladies and gentlemen who are seeing us today through the media, today is a sad, dramatic day in Catalonia. Today is the day when the coup against our democracy established in 1978 with the promulgation of our Constitution is definitely being perpetrated. Today, in your motion for a resolution, you, which consists of several pages, proclaim the independent republic of Catalonia and say that you are putting into effect that Law of Transition which you, with traps, absolutely undemocratically, promulgated on 6 and 7 September in this Parliament. That law which you passed with night and lightness, that law which you did not allow us, the parliamentarians of this Parliament, to argue, to amend, that we were not given the necessary time limits, that our right to go to the Council of Guarantees Statutes, which you approved with 72 votes, which our own Statute of Catalonia says must be with 90 votes. Grossly illegal laws, which would not pass the filter, at all, nor the Council of Statutory Guarantees, did not pass, that of the lawyers of the Parliament, did not pass the filter of the lawyers of the Parliament, nor the Council of Statutory Guarantees. Of course, they do not pass it from the Constitutional Court, they do not pass any European filter, in European law; all the European institutions have pronounced themselves for respect for the constitutions of the Member States of the European Union. But is it that you are already considered outside Europe, that you do not even respect European standards? Do they not respect international standards, the UN standards? Those laws that you passed at night, with an electoral board appointed to your finger, which in the end has not counted or anything; that referendum, which was a shame, which was an absolute democratic shame for all, you claim to give it validity. And based on those laws, which were a legal bodrio without validity here, in Catalonia, without validity in Catalonia, without validity in Spain and without validity in the world, which called them supreme norms, impregnable by no one, you are like gods, there are no courts that can challenge the laws that you invent. How is it possible for them to seek independence on that path, against everything and against all and against more than half of the Catalan population? Look, you, with that PR, want to deprive the Catalans of the Spanish passport, and you do, as always, have had to do throughout this process, lying, because the truth cannot stand their way to the challenge and the confrontation and the lack of democracy. They did it by lying. And what do you say now? That has been caused by the application of article 155 of the Constitution, provokes this that we are doing today, you say that you are doing it to defend our institutions. It's a lie, our institutions have taken care of you, you have taken care of them. And do you intend to make us believe that this is happening here would have stopped with the dialogue that you treacherously kept having on your lips? Do you want us to believe that this is so? Look, Mr Puigdemont, you've always been an independentist, you've recognized him. His party, with Mr. Mas at the front, drafted, put a comedero to put his people there, collecting from the public treasury, that we all paid it, to make the report of the Council Counsellor of National Transition, with the former magistrate of the Constitutional Court, Viver i Pi-Sunyer. And you, this whole plan, it was already written, Mr. Puigdemont, it was already written. You presented yourselves with an election program that said you were declaring independence in eighteen months. If they were already saying so... Then they invented a referendum, because they did not dare and shook their legs, they invented a referendum that you said you had won in plebiscite elections that, as such plebiscite, lost them, because you took 48_per_cent of the votes. You're not even the majority; you lost them, those elections. But, despite everything, as Mr Mas-Colell recently acknowledged, you preferred to show that that was going forward, on September 27, when you lost your little plebiscite. The same goes for Mr Baños of the CUP: "We have lost the plebiscite. But you forced and went forward, just as you forced and went forward with that referendum simulation you invented. Therefore, you have followed a path that always began for independence, only for independence and for independence: Consell Alderman of National Transition, program of rupture in eighteen months, false and anti-democratic referendum, overstepping the rights of parliamentarians on days 6 and 7, lack of democracy in a legislative assembly of an autonomous community, absolutely ignoring the Constitutional Court and the will of the rest of the Spaniards, with whom we have built, all together since 1978, with the overwhelming vote of the Catalans, we have turned this Spain into one of the cleanest democracies of all Europe and younger. And you – you – after all this and to run over, now, to justify your populist, anti-democratic and totalitarian behavior, are you going to say now that this is because Ciutadans, the People's Party and the Socialist Party apply the Constitution in Catalonia? Are you going to have the little shame of telling us what that's about? Well, look, what you've achieved all this time is to break the cohabitation. You have gone by the hand of a party that puts up posters that say, 'check them out,' let us point out to those who disagree, in an absolutely undemocratic way. In their seats they have people who call the opposition a carrion, they have people who call the European leaders who have spoken about the application of the Constitution in Europe, and some of them, by the way, are making them look at the mobile and they don't hear me. And you, all of you. [[applause]] , all of you..., and I tell you..., when Citizens, after an election, can restore democracy in Catalonia, I say to you: you will be able to go to all the municipalities of Catalonia without being declared persona non grata, which is not happening to us. And do you know what it is to declare a person "ungrateful with his acquiescence and without you opposing? It involves expelling that of the community, because that is what you would like to do with us, with dissidents, expelling us from the community, because you distribute Catalan meat, distribute them, and forget that there are many people who are Catalan and who do not commune, and that Catalonia is very diverse and that many of these Catalans are peaceful and concerned in their homes and do not go to their mandate. [[the vice president of the Government and councillor of Economy and History leaves the escó to leave the Hall of Sessions]] a... – look, Mr. Junqueras, I was going to talk about you now – they're not going to be sent to you... [[The Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History leaves the Sessions Hall. Widow's remorse.]] All right, Mr. Junqueras can see he doesn't want to hear how he's economically ruined Catalonia, he can see he doesn't want to hear... [[applause]] He does not want to hear how in 2013 he called for a week to stop the Catalan economy to press Spain, and that the worse, the better. He doesn't want to hear it. They do not want to hear how a journalist of an average who in the rest of Spain will not know it but that all Catalans are paying without knowing what with public money subsidized by the Generalitat..., the journalist who says he is happy with the flight of companies and the tilda of « gang of mobsters, the flight of Catalan companies. And he says: "Who has noticed that the Box is gone? What does it matter? The better, the worse, the better, because that's how independence is achieved. Look, you have led us on this path to confrontation, to social confrontation. You have divided Catalan society into two, you have ruined Catalan society. You, Mr Puigdemont, will not pass into history... You will pass into history because you have ruined Catalonia economically, you will pass into history because you have divided Catalans, you will pass into history because you have loaded yourself with the institutions of Catalonia's self-government, but you will not pass into history because you have left Spain, you will not pass into history because you will not get it, neither you nor the deputies who accompany you. To finish..., I'm finishing now, because the clock hasn't started and I don't know what makes it right, or it's less time or more... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.17.0	Mr. Carrizosa, tea here.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.18.0	Yeah, but I got started later. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.19.0	So, better, I mean you have more time. [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.20.0	Well, then, I'm going to finish, then. [[Some applause.]] I'm finishing up, then. The mission of politics... yes, gentlemen, that you are today very happy dividing Catalonia, as you are doing, unconsciously. The mission of politics is to make people happy and promise them not unrealizable dreams, but to improve their day to day. Yesterday I mentioned the president of my group to that person who has been waiting for five months for a pacemaker, given the passiveness of the Health Commission, which has not met in recent months. And the other day we were in a tent and a gentleman was sending us a message and he was telling us that thanks to the work that has been done in Parliament a primary care centre in Tarragona and an elderly residence in Reus has been opened, and that thanks. That's the day-to-day work that improves the lives of Catalans, not this one that divides us. [[Greetings.]] You only promise an uncertain future, we want to promise the Catalans that the implementation of the Constitution has to be translated into elections that give the Catalans the floor, that we can democratically throw those who have ruined, divided and charged the institutions throughout Catalonia. Those elections have to stop this Brexit that Mr Puigdemont is taking us to. We're going to put the ballot boxes. The role this you have written [[the orator shows a departure of fulls to the chamber]] breaks the most sacred of people in Catalonia, breaks the coexistence, deprives them of their citizenship, pushes more than half of Catalans to be what they are, which is: Catalans, Spanish and European. With this role – with this role – you have left the Catalans who do not follow you, who are less than half, you have left you orphans of government. This role is worse than illegal laws, as they are..., it's illegal...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.21.0	Mr. Carrizosa, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.22.0	It's immoral, it's unethical. And that's why Citizens [[The orator rips him off.]] will not allow Spain to break [[applause]] We're not gonna let them divide us, we're not gonna let them ruin us, Mr. Puigdemont...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.23.0	Mr. Carrizosa...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.24.0	...and gentlemen of Junts for Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.25.0	...has run out of time. [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.26.0	Good afternoon, Mrs. Forcadell. President, deputies and deputies, good late also to whom today they pretend to constitute the republic. What republic? I don't know how you see it, those who qualify themselves from the legitimate representatives of Catalonia. Who are we, who are all these people here? Aren't we legitimate? What are the others? What a model of democracy! What a model of pluralism! What a country model! An intolerant country, sectarians and outcasts. What do you want to do today? A mistake for the institutions, for the people and for Catalonia. Catalonia, which was joined by families of workers and workers who came and came from all the roots. Families that, colza to colza, with whom they were already there, we have raised this country with our hands. People who cherish the land that has seen their children and their nets born. Workers who put all the illusion and effort into the education of their children, some children we were going to learn to speak Catalan at school, that at home there were few books and people from Catalan until TV3 arrived. This generation that, little or much, we've been moving forward. These families, mostly working class, lots of Spanish speakers. A generation that has witnessed in silence the tsunami of the past few years, that looked all the way through this slow rhetoric of the new country, of the structures of the state, of the "Spain in robbing us, of the hatred that they feel as much their own as their city, their city or their country. And also many of those born here who don't want to let the division and the confrontation get flushed out. We all don't want to choose. Catalans who rise too much of an hour – well of an hour, well of an hour – and who do not believe that Spain is a totalitarian state, even if we want to reform it, we want to improve it. Catalans who do not want to rob us of the Catalonia we have made among all, Catalans who do not like the disjuncts – Catalonia or Spain –, we prefer the copulatives – Catalonia and Spain. Actually, a lot of us aren't Spanish nationalists or Catalan nationalists, you know? Many of us have only been interested in breaking them down. And before the flags? In front of the flags we like the Jorge Drexler sings: "It is worth more any chimera/ than a piece of sad cloth. We respect the flags, but we don't think we should split up because of them. In fact, we didn't really think about this whole process until you started talking badly about the land of our parents. Maybe we didn't set ourselves up enough in the senate until they replaced it with the stellate, the flag of the new country, which is just a few, like everything you do: just for yourself, just for your own. They don't make us choose, they don't have a right. We also want peace and peace. And we'll defend the lady you're abandoning today. These years we have become aware of what they are doing: a strategy paid with the money of all to try to inoculate our hatred of the other lands of Spain, a strategy to generate division and fracture between families, between friends, between working companies. And all this, gentlemen, is deliberate. How irresponsible! What country do they want to build with those who store documents that dispel the strategy to provoke a phase of high economic and political instability as we are patenting and that come out in their papers? What country do they want to build? You're very aware of what they're doing today, because they've been preparing it for years. But are you aware of how many people, families, entrepreneurs, retirees are at these times, how they are at these times? Are they aware of the concern and concern that has settled in the color and in the head of the Catalans? Are you aware that 30 per cent of the rich has already escaped with the announcement? What's going to happen tomorrow, what's going to happen this late? How many more companies will leave our country, how many workers will condemn the poor? You're unconscious and we won't let you. Catalonia is a plural society and we want it to continue to feel it, and it will continue to feel it, despite you. Catalonia is all of us, and the generality is all of us. Today the socialists are on the side of people who don't understand political adventures that end in ships against the rocks. Today the Socialists are with those who, anxious, have left the house thinking they are living in a country with guarantees and democratic rights and will go back there without knowing what a bunch of irresponsible deputies would have done. Today the socialists represent those who believe in a global world... that is, interdependence reigns, and that there is no sense of creating a small state on the margins of everything, without any recognition, impoverishment, fracture and no future. Is that what they want for Catalonia? Is that what they want for the country they say they think so much? The socialists have left us behind because this doesn't get here. Because, all the smiles of the revolt, which you say, we have received insults from "anti-democratics to think differently. We've been painted by their party where they tell us that we're bewitched, expelled from local governments to work for our country, and the socialist mayors are told: "You give up your ideas or we're out of town. This is happening in Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] The ones we're working for today's dialect bridges, we're going to have to listen to the president of his group more insults, less; we're working until later on for the Catalonian dialogue and self-government and we're going to continue working for these goals. [[Greetings.]] They insist on doing banner politics, when society is asking for dialing bridges. You give lessons of catalanity and patriotism, when true patriotism is shown to be united and not separate. Did they listen well to what they say? Did they read what they're writing? I am not just a disclaimer for the institutions of this country; I am also a disclaimer for the art of politics, which is the construction of the common good. Today, with the culmination of the DUI, they blow it all up. Today, putting in the way of this legal monster named the Transitional Law, it destroys everything. President, today's harvest today's warning that we can move from hero to traitor in five minutes. For some, we are from our foundation. And if you think about your own, you think for a few minutes in all that we share time and space in this land, you wouldn't do what you're going to do today. We've tried to put a stop to the end, but he's preferred to stay with the pure, he's put us before the abyss, and now they're taking a step forward. Lords of PDECAT, Esquerra and CUP: not in our name. We have denounced until our mouths hurt the costs of placing institutions out of the law. You know that a minority, however large it may be, cannot impose itself on the majority. They've raised political rights, they've crushed our state of autonomy. To reform him, ninety votes; to bury him, seventy-two? We do not want the independence of Catalonia, even though it seems to us an ideal as legitimate and for the same channels as our federalism. Faced with these hard hours for Catalonia's citizens, Spain too, we want to underline that socialism has been, is and will always be in the defense of the state of law, coexistence, social justice, self-government and democratic institutions. Faced with the denial of politics and institutions that are all of us, we will continue to work because, as soon as possible, we will return the law to the institutions of our country and to give the view to the citizenry in some autonomous elections, we will continue to work to find a political agreement. Because, even though you have all the bridges, you know that this can only be solved with the dialogue, the negotiation and the pact; a pact that we want to be considered on the part of all citizens. No wish to apply the 155 of the Constitution, but to emphasize that it is not an article on the initiative of the State, is the consequence of a deliberate exit from legality. If you, President, the government and the majority of Parliament that supports you no longer accept constitutional and statutory legality, the application of 155 is inevitable. The mistake we're about to make as many as we'll pay for all the Catalans and all the Catalans. The announcements that we would not participate in the vote on Junts' resolutions for the Yes, that we would leave the hemisphere, so as not to make us responsible for this huge mistake that we are about to commit. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.27.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granados. Next is the words of Ms Marta Ribas, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.28.0	Good morning, or late morning, president, deputies, deputies, and especially the people you are today – sure, very much – are following us closely, and sure in many cases with for. I speak to them as representing many, many people who for decades fought for the self-government of Catalonia; to recover it, first, and to increase it, then. And that has always done so with the gaze that autonomy, sovereignty serve, above all, to improve the living conditions of the people, especially the most vulnerable. And that, therefore, by all means is the social cohesion, of each barri. I speak to you on behalf of our companies, our companies, who are also confronting each other today and facing 155 in the Senate, and who have done so with strength at the Congress, and in the places and streets of all Spain, when it is not always easy to do it, in the places and streets of all Spain. [[Greetings.]] I speak to them on behalf of parties and organizations that we were on October 1 defending the schools, that we made our streets on October 3 stopping the country and disbanded past claiming the freedom of the Jordis. In the name of these people whom I represent today, I say that today two great barbarities are being perpetrated. The first, Article 155, in the Senate, which seeks to overthrow the Catalan institutions and make a regression of rights and freedoms that will end up affecting the whole State – the whole State; an unworthy application of the Spanish Constitution that will impact on sovereignty, citizenship and the economy and, in change, will not resolve anything. But it's a big mistake – it's a big mistake – to respond to this barbarity with another barbarity. And that's what's happening here in the Parliament of Catalonia. We have told them and I repeat: they do not have democratic legitimacy to approve a unilateral declaration of independence. October 1st was a lot of things: a great mobilization, a disastrous and fatal and denouncing exhibition of police violence against the people, but not a reference; not a valid reference that gives a warrant. But it is that, above all, it is a hard mistake to plant the unilateral declaration of independence as the answer to 155. The DUI does not protect us and will not protect us from 155, all the contrary. What is needed is a front of broad social and political dimensions to face the consequences of 155 [[some applause]] and defend Catalan institutions. And with the DUI, what they're doing is getting bigger, precisely, this majority. Today in Parliament what we are proposing, what we are proposing, are proposals to offer solutions and to offer outings to sugar where they have brought us. Successes that show a clear rebuttal of Parliament to Article 155, but also to unilateral solutions, because they are not any solution; that they claim that repression and judicialization be halted; that they obviously demand the freedom of the Jordis. But we also propose that the effects of the... – that already have them – of partyism – partyism – and political chasm, in questioning the values of the masters, for example, of our schools, or in periling the survival of projects of social and youth entities, or in jeopardizing the economy and stability of our country. And we propose dialogue and spaces of vast majority and open debate of new mark constitute with the citizenry to speak to Catalonia from Catalonia, of the sobrieties, of all the sobrieties, but respecting that the territorial model, the model of state, we have to be able to decide in a referendum, in a true one, that still still pending. Together for the Yes and the UPC today, what they are proposing is to unilaterally deploy independence, and they are proposing to initiate a process that is a source of fact that Catalonia has already decided that we want to be independent. It is a process that is derived from a DUI. This is the great difference with us; we respect democracy always. And what it is that the citizenry can decide, all the citizenry of Catalonia, with guarantees, with a recognizable reference, that it can have real consequences, that we want it to be Catalonia, whatever it is, who decided the people. And that's still a hanging assignment. Today we have a déjà-vu, again abandon the claim of the referendum that has not yet been made. Let's hope the circle is back closed and we'll find each other again. We're still feeling it. With regard to the resolutions of the others, already the progress that has obviously been made that we are very – very – in agreement with, which is raised in some resolutions, especially in some of the Socialists – such as putting a stop to the 155 deployment, setting up a _dialeg table or calling for more support for the Barcelona Charter, for example. But the format of the House, and above all the current political situation, obliges us to vote on the proposals in bulk; this has led us, that there can be no debate on the matter, that is also the consequence of the current political situation. And so, I'm telling you, we'll vote not at all, because we don't agree with the unilateral proposals of Juntes for the Yes and the UPC, but not with all those who are today – with all those who are today – in the Senate they're liquidated our autonomy. [[Greetings.]] I don't want to end without talking to them from the heart either, because I am with an outraged person today; outraged at the People's Party and its nullity of dialogue; outraged at those who today have praised the Senate for nullifying an autonomy; outraged at the rulers who do not resolve the problems of citizenship, but who are dedicated to generating it or expanding it; outraged at the confusion, uncertainty, improvisation and surrealism in which they have converted the political and social environment into our country; outraged at the feeling that some – many, but some – were, with much power, the last weeks playing a game of chess, loaded with testosterone, where the Tableau was Catalonia [[applause]] And the peons, the citizenry; outraged with the effects that this game is having, and above all will have, in people's daily lives. And, as a sovereignist, I'm also very, very outraged, because today they make it easier for the end of the process to lose autonomy. When one cannot win the important thing is not to lose, and more when we are talking about our institutions and our self-government. There's been a lot of partyism and a little bit of eye-catching or country-watching, after all. And dol; dol a lot. It's about the citizen and it's about the deputy. I'm done. We all know that we have left our skins because this situation is resolved through the dialog, saving our self-government and allowing lives to advance in the will to hold more, which is ours, too. But he didn't make it. You have majorities in Parliament and the Senate trying to boost all the bridges that fall into the dialect. What we can guarantee is that our bridge remains firm, that we will not lose our commitment to defending democracy and the Catalan institutions at any time; but we will also work because the situation from now on is not transferred to the people, to the work centers, to the associations and entities and to their projects, nor to the environment and coexistence of our towns, cities and barrels. This is our commitment today to the city of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.29.0	Thank you very much, Mrs Ribas. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, on behalf of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.30.0	Thank you, President. On this black day for our democracy I will be allowed to build this intervention in two different blocks. The first, to answer the question that we all ask ourselves: how did we get here? And the second: what will we do to solve it? Last Tuesday President Montilla again referred in his appearance to the objective reasons for the Catalan disaffection. It's a respectable speech, well-meaning, but it's profoundly false. It referred to the judgment of the Statute. That sentence should not have been so traumatic when a few months later, and until September 2012, Convergence i Unió was voting for the PP all in favor of Congress, including labor reform. He usually talks about financing as well. President Montilla himself presented a well-intentioned financing model with Esquerra Republicana and Initiative in 2009. They announced it as the best in history, which should have been in force for twenty-five years. His members of Esquerra Republicana, showing the legendary loyalty that characterizes them, did not respect the twenty-five years, stayed in three months, which is what took them to say that it was a robbery. Financing, infrastructure, the Statute are debates, in modern societies and in prosperous societies, which can be held, where positions are legitimate. But, no, none of these debates intellectually justify the barbarity that has been committed here over the past five years. Here what has happened is that for five years you have taken the worst face of identity nationalism, the one that appeals to low passions, to selfishness, which deteriorates in an extraordinary way societies until that prosperous day. And here they've done it around three strategies. The first is that they have turned their separatist project into a populist project. Giovanni Sartori said – he knows that I like to quote what was the great enemy of populism – that to identify a populist project two elements must be identified: the story of the aggravation and utopian solutions. In this sense, his separatist project is a book populism. The account of the aggravation is evident: « Spain steals from us. Spain is of parasites, of pacifiers. They have repeated it to the point of satiety. Utopian solutions, magical thinking, of course, also: "Companies will not go away, they will fight to come. We'll tie the dogs to longanizas. We'll eat dessert ice cream every night. Reality has dramatically destroyed your account of magical thought, but it has allowed us at least one thing: now we know what you are like. They are willing to sacrifice a decade of employment, well-being and growth for pure fanaticism. Shame, shame, shame. That's what I should give them. [[Greetings.]] Two: manipulation of feelings in a perverse and exclusive way. All the satraps of history, all – it's a rather curious thing – before showing their true moral squandering they usually show themselves before public opinion as sentimental and curses. It's one thing... First they take a stand to the brave, without respecting international legality or national legality, and once they take that stand then they start talking about love, peace and dialogue. It is a perversity of velvet that must be recognized that it is very difficult to combat dialectically. It is Mr Puigdemont's dialogue: "I take the brave stand and then I ask for dialogue to consolidate the position, not to pull back, and I do so through blackmail wrapped in beautiful words. But if there's a real master in velvet perversity – now he's not going to leave with rosettes – it's Mr. Junqueras. Because you are responsible for all the anti-democratic trophies that were committed here on September 6 and 7, to destroy the Catalan economy. And what does Mr. Junqueras do when he has to bear the consequences of his actions? She starts crying. And she's crying so well. He behaves like that little brother who pinches you and just before returning you the pinch starts to cry. And your mother comes and mocks you, what you've done to the child. The child who pinches and cries is Mr. Junqueras. [[Some applause.]] Well, well, Mr. Junqueras, let's not swallow your crocodile tears. We know that they only want to manipulate the feelings of Catalan society. And I add it further, because that attitude is especially deplorable: we are willing to endure its endless and monocords perract; we are willing to endure its almost genetic predisposition to palace conspiracy; we are willing to endure its found, zigzagous, gloomy course; we are willing to endure that and much more; but, for God's sake, don't weep anymore – don't weep anymore. To adult life – to adult life – and to politics comes crying from home. Don't ever manipulate the feelings of Catalans again. It is outrageous and unacceptable. A little decency, a little shame. [[Greetings.]] Three: finally, stigmatization, cosification and exclusion of the political adversary. This is the worst, most dangerous of all. Look, for five years you've drawn up a list of alleged feces that don't allow for comparison in the history of humanity. At first they only included us, but it is that now neither the pointer is saved: Jordi Évole, facha; Isabel Coixet, facha; Serrat, facha; Sardà, facha; Rabell, facha; Coscubiela, facha; Arrimadas, facha; Iceta, facha; Macron, facha; Merkel, facha; Juncker, facha; Theresa May, facha; Mas-Colell, now facha; Enric Juliana, facha; since yesterday, Santi Vila, facha. [[Widow's remorse.]] One question, Mr. Puigdemont: Is there anyone on planet Earth or the Milky Way, except you and Mr. Nicolás Maduro, that is not fair? One, at least – one, at least? [[Greetings.]] In fact, you went yesterday for three_hours sharp and botifler. Does it not embarrass you to lead a political movement based on pointing out and excluding the one expressing the slightest discrepancy? Aren't you ashamed of yourself? Because he'd give it to me. How will we overcome this? Because we're gonna get over it. Since the double reconciliation, I'll talk about it later, and with more Spain. Yes, more Spain, because more Spain is more Catalonia, the Catalonia we have been proud of for centuries. Look, I'm going to explain to you in a minute and a half what Spain is, because you don't know it anyway, and among other things, because we're sick of them saying that Spain is dandruff, that it's cute, that it's "Spain or that it's a country of parasites, that's tired. Spain.......................................................................... through its Golden Century.................................................................................................................................................................................. What do you think? That's Spain. [[Some applause.]] From that extraordinary confluence emanates, in the plastic arts, Velázquez, Miró, Dalí, Picasso, Goya; in science, Monturiol, Isaac Peral, Severo Ochoa, Ramón and Cajal; in the letters, expressed through our four wonderful languages, Cervantes, Josep Pla, Ausiàs March, Lope de Vega, Rosalía de Castro; and from that very extraordinary cultural heritage that we all share, Spain is born today, one of the great democracies of the world, a true pillar of democratic Europe, as you have been reminded of all the great world leaders in recent days. No, friend, no, Spain is not dandruff, Spain is wonderful. And you know what? Precisely because Catalans are Spanish, it is even more so. That's Spain, in a minute and a half. [[Greetings.]] But Spain is something else. Spain is reconciliation, it has always been. And the double reconciliation of which my good friend and colleague Juan Milián speaks very often, and has written about it, consists in reconciliation, first, among all Catalans, although today, unfortunately, we are so divided, and then, the reconciliation of Catalans with the rest of the Spanish. It won't be easy. The damage they have inflicted on Catalan and Spanish society is tremendous, but we are going to get it and we are going to get it because we have done it together in the past. It will not be easy, but that task – and I want to solemnly transfer it as the spokesman of our parliamentary group and to convey the message to Catalan society and to the rest of Spanish society – the deputies of the popular group will devote our effort, our vocation, our tireless energy, our generosity when circumstances demand it, because there will be no more beautiful and beautiful task that we have to face in our lives. Visca Catalunya and live Spain. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.31.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.32.0	Well, thank you, President. First of all, on behalf of our parliamentary group we want to dedicate this intervention, this historic and solemn moment to the Jordis, Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart, which today symbolizes what we have suffered, suffer and suffer the repression of the Spanish State. Jordis, this is for you and we won't stop until we get you home. [[Perlongats applause.]] Today, in this Parliament...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.33.0	One moment..., one moment, Mr. Riera – one moment, Mr. Riera. I'm sure the audience watching the act will keep the shapes. They already know that there can be no public displays of consent, approval or reprobation. I'll let you know. Thank you. I can go on, Mr. Riera.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.34.0	Thank you, President. Today in this Parliament, representing the sovereignty of the Catalan people, we are prepared to make a historic passage. Since the legitimacy of the self-determination referendum of '1 October, in which most votes were in favour of Catalonia becoming an independent state in the form of a republic. And this Parliament, according to its Law of Referendum, can only proclaim it. This is the democratic mandate of our people expressed in the ballot box, and so close to assuming it. We have already enabled all possible democratic tools to refer to this decision: consultation, elections and referral. If others could not be enabled, it was due to the lack of political will of the State to provide it with one of its judicial orders. Therefore, the claim not to execute the popular mandate because it has not been legitimized by the legality of the State would mean assuming the democratic cares of the Spanish State as an insurmountable condition of our freedom. Today, assuming our full legal and political self-care, we are politically subject to self-determination and sovereign exercise, calling on the international right gathered in declarations, conventions and treaties in which the United Nations recognize and endorse the right of all peoples to self-determination. We note that the legal, political, statutory and constitutional framework are today a problem, as they do not offer democratic solutions to the political conflict between the Catalan countries and the Spanish State, and, in turn, we propose and affirm the new framework of the republic as a context for the expansion of civil, social and political rights that does not offer a democratic solution in the international concert. What we do today goes from the moon, from a long history of struggle and resistance. From the war of the Segadors of 1640 and from the siege of La Canadenca of 1919 to the Republic of 31st and its defense before the coup d'état francquista, and from the struggle for democracy that followed it until the referendum of 1st October and the general siege of 3rd October, that have led us to the step that today we are poised to do, passing through many and many struggles, in order to smooth social, civil and political rights in front of a state that is always despotic, and also of some Catalan oligarchies that have always opted for the status quo, to all, against the good people. Today we determine ourselves before the Spanish State and before the Catalan elites who preferred the Spanish tyranny before freedom and democracy in Catalonia. The Government of the Generality predicted a scene that did not occur, and that was based on the dialogue and negotiation with a more democratic Spanish state and with a less democratic and conservative European Union. This scene was even shared for the broad democratic framework that represented the National Referendum Pact. The tools that man had planned to manage the new republic in this frustrated context have remained outdated. Now we need to build a popular and institutional counterpower and build the republic in a context of democratic and non-violent struggle and resistance, and, tanmateix, with radical determination. The time of the people has arrived, without even structures of state, building republic from below, with the process constitute and with the social struggle of the joints, from the self-organisation, from the Catalan people's counterpower in front of the authoritarian power of the Spanish State. And for all this we ask, today, that the Parliament of Catalonia, assuming the results of the self-determination referendum of '1 October and in compliment of the Law of Referendum, voting on these motions for resolutions we propose, declare that Catalonia is an independent state in the form of a republic. And we urge the Government of the Generality, as well as the assemblies of our country, to carry out this mandate at all the effects established in the Law of National and Foundational Transition of the Republic. Since the CUP - Creed Constituent we believe that independence and that this true democratic revolution are today the best way to advance in the objectives of social and political transformation of the working class and of the popular classes in the way of the construction of a free society, feminist and socialist in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries. It is also the best way to honour the dignity and memory of those who preceded us in the struggle for the republic and against the fascism of the Catalan Countries, Spain and the world. It is the best way to build a new country for everyone, for everyone, without exclusions; a republic of crowded, of democratic and social refuges, with a vast and will hold for everyone who expects and desires a better world. For everyone, whatever your identity is and your origins are. And this step you know that the female deplete, with her head high [[applause]] Not on the knees, not on the subjects, but on the free people, not by. Or shared with tenderness and solidarity, which must be determination and courage. Today we begin the dismissal of the 78th Regime and the Bourbon monarchy in Catalonia, and we proclaim the Catalan Republic. Today's a happy day. Dirty the earth! [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.35.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Then there's the word Mr. Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.36.0	Thank you, President. President, Vice President, Members and Members, Councillors and Councillors... as you know, I do not have the power to formulate resolutions or statements to them, which I would have done if I had been able to do. I don't know if they had prospered, I think they didn't, they saw what happened with the papers I made on the Law of Referendum. Therefore, as long as I only have two minutes, briefly: to reiterate the shortcomings of the procedure initiated with the laws of reference and transitory; legal doubts, technical and legal fever and narrow parliamentary. It's something to consider at the time of the vote, and we'll consider it. But let us also cast the vote taking into account the vote cast for most of the three-million people who mobilized on October 1st; taking into account our seas, our Germans and our daughters, who were hit alone by the fact that they wanted to vote; taking into account the attack on freedom and Catalan institutions, which means the application of Article 155 of the Spanish Constitution, and taking into account the situation of two clearly peaceful social leaders in our country as they are in Jordi Sánchez and Jordi Cuixart. Today's vote is not a point and apart, it's a point and followed – we all know that. Nothing ended here, and, above all, it didn't end – it can't end – the dialog to get the best project and the widest possible for our country. We do not want to lose sight of it, we will not lose sight of it, and this is true for Catalonia as well as for the Spanish State, that the best indicator of the democratic quality of a country is the deal it gives to its minorities. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.37.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordó. The words "Mrs. Marta Rovira", in representation of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.38.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, well, in this debate, which began yesterday and which culminates now, many things have been talked about; it has been talked about how the dialogue is going. We, the dialog..., and I don't think anyone can deny that Catalonia has always offered lives of dialog; in fact, it practiced it, the dialog. But he always wanted to practice an open dialogue, a sincere dialogue, an honest dialogue, a dialogue that did not mean resignations of the vast majority of citizens of this country. And this dialog has given fruit many times: many political pacts, many, until today; it has given fruit even to a statutory process. An honest dialogue, a sincere dialogue, an open dialogue, a dialogue in terms of equality, a dialogue that respected democracy. He donated fruit. It has always given positive fruit, but it has lasted very little. It's been a long time because too often, too often, this dialog has culminated in agreements; these agreements have never been completed, never have they been completed. These agreements come from the dialog too often have been minor and mocked. Many times this dialog, which culminated in references, has been even squandered and settled by judicial institutions. This is the dialog that comes back to offer today: a dialog that is not addicted; a dialog that needs a democratic majority in our country; a dialog that forces a subtitling: "Come to the Congress of Deputies; a dialog that is not the same, that is not yours, that does not respect the democratic majority obtained at the polls. And this dialog every time is more addicted, now, when precisely at this point there is a democratic and legal majority in favor of independence. The dialog is so vicious that it doesn't exist, because above this dialog there is the unit of Spain – it's always above this dialog. It's a dialog that forces resignations, it's a dialog that implies subtly. In fact, the unit of Spain today is a political option that is excused for everything: to deny democracy, to intervene in Parliament, to cease government. On the other hand, we independents have a very different attitude. We do not want to impose independence on anyone; we have always supported it at the polls and democracy; we have presented ourselves to legal and democratic elections, and we have obtained a mandate. [[Greetings.]] The independenceists we have endorsed our political option at the polls – 27 September – and we won. [[Widow's remorse.]] And we have a majority political agreement, majority in the chamber...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.39.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.40.0	...to be implemented. And we put her back in the polls on October 1st. This is our dialect, this is our concept of democracy: democracy must always be exercised by the citizens. Our political option never has to be over the same democracy or the same dialect, as it happens at these times with the unit of the Spanish State, that is, the proposals that come from the Unionists. Miri, they said yesterday: "In this legislature nothing has been said more than about the monotheme. No, many things have been discussed and many projects approved that are absolutely necessary and essential for our country. And these projects have always been blocked politically by a majority that is not in this chamber, but is in the Government, the Congress of Deputies and the Senate; a political majority that blocks us and suspects the social progress that is taking place in this chamber. Every social progress is blocked politically by a majority that does not represent the citizens of this country, all of them. [[Greetings.]] Look, nobody talked about what the experts are alerting about yesterday; the experts are alerting them to push another time the light bill and to lie down in the winter. And it's an alert that we're supposed to be debating here. [[remorse of the voice]] , that you should plant. Because this Parliament has approved to fight the poor energy; this Parliament has worked to pay a fair light bill, because the business people are competitive, because it is not a good thing that in the last six years the business people in this country have seen the light bill increased by 40_per_cent. This – this – because it is not a gift..., do you know how we have to do it to get out of this political blockade? So, we're forced to build our own country, our own state, that takes refuge from this oligopolistic state that forces citizens and entrepreneurs to pay one of the world's most dearest bills of the light. That's why we're here – that's why we're here. [[Voice remorse and applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.41.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.42.0	That's why. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.43.0	Quiet!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.44.0	And do you know what happened to these instruments that allow us to work against the energy poverty that we approved with a progressive political majority in this Parliament? That you blocked it in the Spanish Congress, blocked it in the State, as you always do – as you always do. And today they pass..., today they do another thing: they move from the subsequent political blockade using the Constitutional Court, the prosecution and the courts, from this political blockade that they have exercised, to the clearly direct intervention, to an aberration – absolutely – democratic, to the intervention of this Parliament and to the cessation of democratically elected institutions. Now the political blockade does not serve them, now they say: "Surely, the one we want to erase is all part of the chamber, and we will decide for all the citizens. I don't need them to vagrate the Spanish Congress to block this political majority. I don't think I'm going to vagrate the Constitutional Court any more. You today are directly involved in the democratic institutions of our country. And if this is approved, we're not forty years old. And we have to keep it very present. That's why women today don't do it. Mirin, we – we – only wanted to vote. And we wanted everyone voted, absolutely everyone. Mrs. Granados, because you vote all over the country. And that calls for 80 percent of our country. We have put the ballot boxes for everyone – for everyone – and everyone has had the opportunity to express what he thought to the ballot boxes. Until yesterday you... you should be ashamed to come here to talk about 155, because they use..., they have acted as they always do; they have acted as they always do to see that in Madrid their parties and their companies..., they have seen that in Madrid their parties and their companies have nothing to do with Catalonia. You come here, make some very kind speeches, but while Ciutadans is there, the PSOE and the PP are approving what they approve. And, as it makes them so ashamed, you did not speak of it yesterday, of this Article 155, did not speak of it; as always: you here give a face and then politically block the adventures that this Parliament approves. You can talk about Llavaneres, Mrs. Arrimadas. I've made a call to Llavaneres, and I've told them there are other ways to prove political discrepancy, certainly, yes. The same way I made this call, I'd ask you to do so too. [[Widow's remorse.]] Miri, two years ago...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.45.0	Please; be quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.46.0	...for two years now, some Members of Parliament who hold the majority of this Parliament are also trying to democratically pull out the initiatives we represent, which have given us and asked us the citizens of this country, but we cannot; we cannot by a constant blockade of the opposition, that when the typical instruments of parliamentary blockade that they make, two months ago, it is an indignity: thousands of people investigated, seven hundred mayors investigated, the Bureau and the Government sought and required, more than a thousand wounds for the Spanish police on October 1, high offices and public servants detained and imputed, escorts to private homes, enterprises and professional depatches without guarantees, citations of the Polish Government's ban on civil affairs, declarations of a political assembly, declarations of a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a political party, a Please, Mrs. Arrimadas – Mrs. Arrimadas –, ask the country police not to follow us any further. We don't want them to follow us; we want to – we want to, we want to – exercise our rights. [[Greetings.]] I don't want them taking pictures of me when I leave home to accompany my daughter to school. I don't want them to follow me down the street. I want to be able to exercise my rights according to what I think. [[Voice remorse and loud applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.47.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.48.0	I... [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.49.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.50.0	...I asked all the governors and the mayors of the Republican Left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.51.0	Mr. De Paramo... Mrs. Rovira, please. Mr. De Paramo, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr De Paramo, you have already spoken, you have already exercised your parliamentary right; now another group is exercising it. Please, respect him. Mrs. Rovira, I can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.52.0	I'm talking about political persecution for what I think it is. And he asks you to do what I did: ask the mayors and governors of the Republican Left, and share it with the rest of the democratic political parties, that we don't have to declare people not grateful. I'm done. Always remember – always –: before all this, today we are here to fulfill the mandate of '1 October. On October 1, we did not only win a self-determination referendum, we also protected the rights of expression, assembly, information and the right to political pluralism; that is, the basic rights of democracy. And we won the right that the institutions of our country are at the height of this dignity, of so much dignity. Sovereignty is already of the people, as it should always have been. And it is our job, from the legitimate representatives gathered here, to embody this sovereignty to the institutions, strong and flexible at once, that protect the rights and deepen in all and every freedom of everyone. The rights that were made real on October 1 now have to be made law, they have to be made right, they have to be converted into a democratic conversation, they have to be converted into consensus and guarantees. The citizens of Catalonia have guaranteed us the country, and now it is our job to guarantee them this state, this society, this plural and peaceful coexistence, because Catalonia can no longer be ruled without the permission of its citizens and today we start a new path that can only be made from this backward fortress. The thousands of prospects that form our country, which are many and very plural, must fall into this determination to build a better country than we are, and every step that comes is from this shared determination that we must be able to move forward. Tough times come, not to be fooled, tense moments come, but we have no choice, we don't have it. The inability of the State to adapt to the social demands of Catalonia, to the willingness to have an adult, civilized conversation, is also the inability to adapt to the time we live, which is and must be a time of poverty and democracy. It will not be easy, it will not be free, and we know it; it will not be one day for another. We have the talent of the whole country, we have all the peaceful culture that we have made alive these years, all of it. But we know we have talent, we know we have determination, we know we have civil society and civil society in this society, we know we have a network of complicity, solidarity and cooperation. We'll be warmed up by this. And we also need to speak clearly and learn the responsibilities that being a state also entails. And we know that there are a lot of people in Catalonia who don't want independence, you know, or you don't see this strategy clearly, you know that, too. And it is essential that your eyes are escorted, that they are incorporated into the country's main stronghold, in the process they constitute. Pluralism is not only an undeniable fact, it is also an essential and necessary part of progress, of all progress. That is why we need a much more robust democratic culture, we need a much more mature, more demanding democratic culture, and we need to create conditions for conversation and debate, the debate of the process is, if not limited, without subordination, if possible. Today, unfortunately, this debate is not. Today's opinions, preferences, ambitions are alibied, threatened by the state. It's imperative for us to build this society, a society where this doesn't happen, where we don't...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.53.0	Mrs. Rovira...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.54.0	... – I'm finished, Madam President – not now, but never passes what is happening. Building a state, as we propose to do, means that the power of the state can never be over the power of the people, as is happening, neither from consensus, nor from disagreements, nor from coexistence. It is urgent for us to create a free area of repression and therefore to take the decisions we want to take on the future of our country, and that is said and can only be said to constitute a process for the Catalan Republic. I'm done. Remember – Remember... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, but I've been interrupted a few times, too. Remember: we have witnessed the first row of a unique spectacle, a cultural revolution. We've lost it. A man, a woman who only has a child in the hands of power, but a woman or a man who knows the risks and is responsible...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.55.0	Mrs. Rovira, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.56.0	...is a free man. Today we are founding a new country on these principles and on this dignity. Do it. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.57.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.58.0	Thank you, Madam President, for a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.59.0	Say, Madam President. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.60.0	Because of the gravity of what's going to happen...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.61.0	Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.62.0	President, thank you. Not at the moment, but [[applause]] everything will come – everything will come. All right, all right. Because of the gravity of what is going to happen in this chamber and because the President of the Generalitat, today has again not given his face and not wanting to dialogue with the presidents of the opposition groups, as leader of the opposition, as representative of 740,000 Catalans, I ask you please..., as it has been flexible – and I understand – with the times of the interveners, I ask you for a short period of time to be able to position us, at least, the presidents of the parliamentary groups. Since the president of the Generalitat did not want to face the face, he did not want to dialogue and did not want to open the turn. [[Some applause. Widow's remorse. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.63.0	Mrs. Upstairs, the debate is filed and it's two minutes per group and I've been..., I haven't looked at time with any group; with your neither – with your neither. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Now, if you want, I can give you three minutes for allusions, because... because you've heard it. That's what I can give him.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.64.0	Jo... – let us continue on the point of order – allow me, really, to object to you not being able to give a speech to the presidents of the parliamentary groups at a time when you are going to declare independence! Please...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.65.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, it's in the Rules, it's taxed. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.66.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Wait. Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.67.0	Mr. Castle, quiet's, huh? , tranquil·litzi's, who do not want me to give you any color attack.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.68.0	Madam President, at a time when you are going to boost Catalonia's autonomy statute, the Spanish Constitution and the founding principles of the European Union, as is the rule of law [[remorse of the voice]] allow me to doubt your interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, Madam President. [[Some applause.]] I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.69.0	It seems to me... I can doubt what you want, Mrs. Arrimadas, but I repeat it, if you want to have three minutes for allusions, because you've been greeted. And more than that, because it doesn't allow, the debate is closed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.70.0	Can I do my surgery from the rostrum?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.71.0	Three minutes, Mrs. Rimadas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.72.0	Thank you, Madam President. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] "Exaggerated, anti-Catalans, fachas, agrarians, that's what many people who are sitting here today have called us, for years, for saying that what is happening today was going to happen in Catalonia, for a long time. [[Greetings.]] Nationalism can only reach a place, which is "the worst, the best, which is the clash between Catalans, because Mrs Rovira – the Mrs Rovira who referred to me in her speech – has referred to situations that we are unfortunately suffering in Catalonia because of the social shock that you have caused. With your policy of shock, not only institutional, not only political, but social, which is what you have brought to Catalonia. They've had plenty of opportunities to stop it and avoid it, but they didn't want to. And I tell you one thing, Mrs. Rovira, I don't know if you understand very well what separation of powers is, what is an opposition leader or the chief of police or judges. But are you comparing me to making a call to your councillors of Llavaneres with whom I call the investigating judge of the court number 13 of Catalonia? Or the chief of police? But do you know what democracy is all about? With your intervention, you have just shown us that you have no respect, not to say knowledge, for what the functioning of a democracy is. That I have to call the police or the judges to get someone out of jail? But did you really just ask me that, as leader of the opposition in Catalonia? [[Greetings.]] But do you understand what you are saying? What you are producing is an unprecedented shock, an insult to the blood, sweat and tears of many of our grandparents and parents who fought for democracy, who fought to reconcile citizens. By the way, it is an insult to the reprisals of Francoism, whose maximum exponents have said, in recent days, that it is a veritable aberration to compare Spanish democracy with the Franco regime; it is an aberration. And I tell you more, do you know who doesn't consider the prisoners, Mr. Cuixart and Mr. Jordi Sànchez, to be political prisoners? His own lawyers in the pleading that they submitted to the judge who, in thirty-six pages, did not say they were political prisoners; they did not say they were political prisoners. This situation is regrettable and we are doing a lot of damage between us, a lot. But of course, there are parties here that are trying to stop what and that are trying to bring together society and you want to separate us between us. You're not going to get this to happen, I want you to understand, I don't know if anyone has any hope that Catalonia is really going to be an independent state, I know not, because you're still in fiction. But what they have just committed is the biggest mistake of Catalonia's democracy. It is an attack, not only on our institutions or our Statute, on Spanish democracy. It is an attack on the European Union, on the founding values of the European Union. That is why you do not have any support, Mr Puigdemont, that is why you do not have one, and you will see, after this session, the support that comes from Europe. And finally and finally, Madam President, we are going to get out of this and I want to address the Catalans who are seeing with absolute amazement what you are doing. Go out and vote en masse in the upcoming elections to regain our coexistence, our institutions, common sense and the future of our children. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.73.0	[[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] The debate is closed, in accordance with Rule 152 of the Rules of Procedure. The sequence is known, I have given it three minutes, according to Article 85, for allusions, because you have heard it, but the debate is taxed and everyone knows it, I knew it all before I did it. So, I guess I can't say... I'm sorry, huh? Mr. Iceta, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.74.0	President, you are right, there is a sequence of the debate agreed at the Board of Spokesmen and, therefore, I do not intend to discuss its authority, but I believe that the day when independence is declared in the Parliament of Catalonia, it might be worth it if the parliamentary groups, the group presidents, for a very short time, could take the word, but I leave it to their discretion. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.75.0	Mr. Iceta, the groups have done it, they've all talked to each other in time... I've been... no, I haven't watched the time, everyone has spoken the time they wanted, everyone. Mr. García Albiol, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.76.0	Yes, thank you, Madam President. I will not insist on the arguments to which you refer, because it is true, but I would also ask that, as on other occasions, and normally to favor this part of the plenary room. [[the orator assigns the left sector of the hemicicle]] , the Rules, has been able to interpret it, so that today we find ourselves in front of a plethora of the transcendence of which is being raised here, but we believe that it would be a remarkable fact that the presidents of the groups can express..., as at the last message to the conjunct of the Cambra and the Catalan people. Make one thing clear – that in the end I don't know whether you will give us the word or not, Mrs Forcadell –, if here is the vote... [[Widow's remorse.]] I conclude: if there is a vote on the resolutions of Juntes for the Yes and the CUP, the People's Party Group will leave this Chamber, so that we will not participate in the democratic state, which puts at risk the democracy and coexistence of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.77.0	Listen, sir... to see, we will proceed to the vote, because you know perfectly well that today are voting motions for resolutions; you could have asked the Board of Spokesmen to do so in another way, you could have agreed. It didn't happen. Therefore, we shall now proceed to the vote. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] There are no precedents, so, then... [[Widow's remorse.]] After the debate, we shall proceed to the vote on the motions for resolutions submitted by the different parliamentary groups according to the order of entry into the General Register of Parliament, in accordance with Rule 152.2. We shall begin, first of all, with the motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. As there is no separate motion for a vote, we shall jointly vote on the three motions for resolutions. We vote on the three proposals jointly by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The vote begins. The motions for resolutions tabled for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group were rejected by 52 votes to 83 with no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the motions for resolutions tabled by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. As the separate vote on motion for resolution No 3 has been called for, we shall vote first on motions for resolution Nos 1 and 2, together, and then vote on resolution No 3. The vote begins, 1 and 2. [[Widow's remorse.]] I have a technical problem. [[Pause.]] The motions for resolutions 1 and 2 tabled for the Socialist Parliamentary Group were rejected by 16 votes to 119 with no abstentions. We can't continue voting because the screen is left blank. [[Strong remorse of the eyes. Pause.]] Many thanks, all controlled – all controlled. We shall now proceed to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's motion for a resolution No 3, and the vote will begin. Motion for a resolution No 3 was rejected by 52 votes to 83, with no abstentions. Next..., we will now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia. We will also vote on the three proposals jointly. The vote begins. The motions for resolutions tabled for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia have been rejected by 52 votes to 83 with no abstentions. We will now vote on the motions for resolutions tabled for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. As the separate vote on motion for a resolution No 3 has also been called for, we shall vote on proposals 1 and 2 together in the first place. The vote begins. Proposals 1 and 2 were rejected by 11 votes in favour, 123 against and 1 abstention. We will continue to vote on Proposal No. 3. The vote begins. Proposal No 3 was rejected by 27 votes to 107, with 1 abstention. One moment. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I would like to inform you that, as you know, the approval of this motion for a resolution, which will be voted on further, according to the warning given to us by the Secretary General and the Major, may be affected by the interlocutors of the Constitutional Court. I'll give you that warning before we proceed to the vote. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Tell me, Mr. Torrent. [[The Members of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group and the Socialist Parliamentary Group leave the Sessions Hall. Removed from voice and shouts: "Visca Catalunya! Visca Espanya!]] Mr. Torrent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.78.0	Yes, Madam President, for a point of order and to try to return to the normality of this Ple. [[Pause.]] Admit to Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, which regulates special votes, our group would like to ask for the transcendence of the motions for resolutions which will be voted all the time, which, especially the first, the first presented for Junts for the Yes and the UPC, can be voted by vote and in the ballot box. And, to the extent that this was possible, we propose that it be possible to debate in the plenary, in the measure that this was possible – I said –, that it is possible to switch the order of votes, to make it easier. And, therefore, the first motion for a resolution by Junts for the Yes and the UPC can be voted on later and first vote on the second with normality. That is to say, this proposal made..., by vote by vote and in the ballot box, refers to the motion for resolution No. 1 of Junts for the Yes and the UPC, which, in any case, should be voted on later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.79.0	We'll have to vote on this proposal you made, Mr. Torrent. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes..., Mr. Rodriguez..., yes, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.80.0	To expose our position in relation to the petition, brave petition, that has just formulated the spokesman of the group of Junts for the Yes. In the sense that the voting act is the only one and the vote on the motions for resolutions has begun, and what cannot be done is to change the voting system from the motions for resolutions to the vote. [[Some applause.]] And, therefore, it is absolutely wrong– it is absolutely wrong– to put a change in the voting system at these heights. If they were for the responsibilities they could assume with the exercise of the vote, they should have predicted it beforehand. [[Someone said, "Bravo! Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.81.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.82.0	To fix the position with regard to this petition.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.83.0	To fix the position, do you see the Faristol, Mr. Coscubiela?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.84.0	Yes, yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.85.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.86.0	Before, a while ago, Mrs. Inés Arrimadas had this treatment; but, moreover, the Rules say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.87.0	You haven't heard from him, Mr. Coscubala.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.88.0	But it's a matter of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.89.0	You can't... – can't –, can't use Article 85. You do... - you do, you do.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.90.0	Thank you. I believe, Mrs Rovira, that the Madam President has sufficient powers as to why you do not go around constantly indicating what you have to do. Thank you, Madam President. Miri, the secret vote is provided for in this Rules, in a Rules that you dynamated on September 6th and 7th. But today, in a situation that some of you consider epic and others consider catastrophic, because of the consequences that, in terms of loss of self-government, infancy of the country and risks to social cohesion can cause, today – today – it is not possible for people not to assume their responsibility. I don't think anyone has the right to take responsibility for their secret vote. The decision that he is about to take and adopt will have some consequences that forces everyone to give their face before their fellow citizens. It's not a waste... [[Funnel veils]] It's not a waste that a decision like this, which is based on a supposed reference that it wasn't done, because what it was done was a mobilization, a reference that doesn't have a mandate, that it's neither legal nor legitimate; a mandate that you expand, plus, here...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.91.0	Mr. Coscubiela, it seems like he's already..., huh? That's enough.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.92.0	I'm done... I'm done, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.93.0	Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.94.0	I haven't exhausted the three minutes the Rules say I have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.95.0	Yes, but you haven't been told; to Mrs. Arrimadas, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.96.0	I'm fixing the position, Madam President. Please, for a moment, we are discussing the issue of Catalonia's independence. If you can't have the flexibility to let me finish, maybe we'll all finish, you first, excuse me. Can I continue?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.97.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. I know he doesn't like what he's listening to, but I have the responsibility to say it. Today it is not a waste that, before this situation, you intend to hide behind the secret vote. You must give your face before the citizens of Catalonia, because the decision that you will take today will have consequences on millions of citizens, and I believe that the citizens of Catalonia have right to know exactly what each vote is. For the last time, you apologize, huh? , it's not a waste – it's not a waste – friend Albert Botran, who yesterday denounced the dark of dispatches and today posts for the dark of the secret vote. It is not strange, until we are used to feeling Zaratrusta in this Parliament: "good Catalans and bad Catalans, good democrats and bad democrats. Today we have heard that there are dark pains and dark good. I'm sorry, but that's how we don't build a country, that's how you get it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Okay. For the petition you made to me, Mr. Torrent, it is necessary to make it two groups or a five-part of the deputies. It is voted because the House will rise, and therefore we will vote for it. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes... yes, yes, yes. [[Anna Gabriel and Sabaté ask to speak.]] Mrs. Gabriel... [[See for yourself and a few applause.]] Em diuen: « Article 97 for the most part... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Rule 71 of the Rules says, that the House will rise. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Mrs. Gabriel, why...? [[Widow's remorse.]] It's... Article 71 says that the Plea will be raised and, according to Article 77, if it decides... [[Widow's remorse.]] Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.100.0	To explain the vote of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. You know – and for whom I don't know today will be the occasion – that our political culture is very far from secret ballots. In fact, he has never exercised them, we have never asked for them and in the constitutions of the assemblies, which is where we have our main trajectory, they are neither part nor part of the investiture sessions of mayors and mayors. For this reason, there is a parliamentary group that has asked if we would support them in this secret vote and we would like to explain it and we need to explain why we would do it. And we'll do it for anti-repressive political culture, not theory, but practice. We've been working on anti-repressive matters for many years, we've known about arrests, escorts, torture and arrests. And today there are two men in prison, of whom they are advancing, and today there are threats of criminal disputes of more than thirty years in prison of worthy and honest people.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.101.0	Ms. Gabriel, it's not a vote explanation – it's not a vote explanation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.102.0	And, before that, we can do nothing but support a path of voting that is far from our political culture.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.103.0	...so, so...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.104.0	But today, for the sake of exception, we need to give it support.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.105.0	So... [[some applause]] We'll vote whether it's a secret ballot or not. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] He asked... two groups have asked for a secret vote, so we will proceed to the secret vote. [[Xavier García Albiol asks to speak.]] Mr. García Albiol, you've already asked for it. Mr Santi Rodriguez has spoken. Say it. You spoke, too.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.106.0	Madam President, let's see something. We're close to a vote. This vote is no different and has nothing to do with the two or three that have occurred before; therefore, the criteria must be a single criterion. And I don't understand how you want to proclaim independence if you don't have the noses to give your face at the time of voting. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] What independence will they proclaim if they don't have noses? If they have him for...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.107.0	Sir...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.108.0	...they've got him for..., they're afraid of him...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.109.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.110.0	...to Spanish legality, what independence will they proclaim?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.111.0	Mr. García Albiol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.112.0	If they hide like cowards. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.113.0	Mr García Albiol, we shall proceed to the vote because it is legitimate. We shall therefore proceed to the vote. We vote if this vote is done in a secret way. The vote begins. [[The deputies of the People's Parliamentary Group leave the Session Hall.]] The secret vote was adopted by 73 votes to 8, with no abstentions. So now we have to go find the urn so that we can proceed to the vote. But now we're voting. We will vote on the joint motion for a resolution by Junts for the Yes and the CUP, number 2, and then, when we arrive at the ballot box, we will vote on number 1. We shall therefore vote on resolution No. 2. The vote begins. The proposal was adopted by 71 votes to 8, with 3 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] We're waiting for the urn to arrive. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] We're waiting for the urn to arrive, Mr. Torrent. Yes, say so.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.114.0	Yes, in any case, and while the ballot box, which I see now above, and which is able to organize the logistics of this vote, we would ask you that, bearing in mind the transcendence and interest of the motion for a resolution that we will vote on at these times, we would ask you that, from the statement of this – that is to say, from the statement of this motion for a resolution that we will vote on – I read the part that goes from "by virtue of and until the end of this statement: "before it is possible to vote. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.115.0	Okay. "By virtue of everything that has just been said, we democratic representatives of the people of Catalonia, in the free exercise of the right of self-determination, and in accordance with the mandate to reject the citizens of Catalonia, We constitute the Catalan Republic, as it is independent and will rise, from the right, democratic and social. We have the entry into force of the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic. We start the process as a democratic, citizen-based, cross-cutting, participatory and binding process. We affirm the will to open negotiations with the Spanish State, without preconditions, to establish a cooperation regime for the benefit of both parties. Negotiations should, as a matter of necessity, be in a low level of equality. We have in the knowledge of the international community and the authorities of the European Union the constitution of the Catalan Republic and the proposal for negotiations with the Spanish State. We urge the international community and the authorities of the European Union to intervene to stop the violation of ongoing civil and political rights, and to follow the negotiating process with the Spanish State and be witnesses to it. We express the will to build a European project that strengthens the social and democratic rights of the citizenry, as well as the commitment to continue to apply, without a solution of continuity and unilaterally, the norms of legal order of the European Union and of the order of the Spanish State and of the Catalan autonomous that transpose this regulation. We say that Catalonia has the clear will to integrate as quickly as possible into the international community. The new State is committed to respecting the international obligations currently applicable in its territory and to continuing to be part of the international treaties of which the Kingdom of Spain is a party. We call on the state and international organisations to recognize the Catalan Republic as independent and it will rise. We urge the Government of the Generality to take the necessary measures to make possible the full realization of this declaration of independence and of the forecasts of the Law of Legal and Foundational Transition of the Republic. We call on all the citizens of the Catalan Republic to make us worthy of the freedom we have given ourselves and to build a state that translates collective inspirations into action and conduct. We assume the mandate of the people of Catalonia expressed in the self-determination referendum of October 1st and declare that Catalonia is an independent state in the form of a republic. And we will continue to vote for the resolution of this motion for a resolution. [[Pause.]] So, now we're going to vote for cry. The first secretary will be screaming... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] No, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't. [[Pause.]] I did it by alphabetical order; if it looks good, we'll do it... if it's by absentia, we'll do it by alphabetical order. So, the secretary... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.116.0	I'll call all the deputies, the ones who are there and the ones who aren't. [[The first secretary shouts in alphabetical order to the deputies because they have paper in the ballot box.]] [[The first secretary calls in alphabetical order the members of the government because they have paper in the ballot box.]] [[The first secretary shouts, one by one, the members of the Bureau because they have paper in the ballot box.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-10-27-4402.117.0	Let's do the countdown. Secretary Nuet, can you help us with the recount? [[Pause.]] [[It's going to the polls.]] The resolution of the statement by the representatives of Parliament was adopted by 70 votes to 10, with 2 votes in favour. [[Strong applause and perlongats. The chamber, dempeus, sings Els Segadors. Crits of "Visca Catalunya!]] Thank you all very much. The session's up.
