ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Motion following the question to the Government on the action of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature]] [[302-00178/11]] The twenty-three point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the question to the Government on the action of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it, has the word Mr. Fernando de Páramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.2.0	Well, thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor Turull, deputies, deputies. Before we begin – allow me, Madam President – we want to make a recollection message, with the accident that we have known this morning; also thank the emergency service for its work, and after a message, also, from souls to families, to the wounded, and that is recovered when before better. And, therefore, let's make this little introduction. Well, we present this motion following an inquiry where we ask for something very simple, very easy, a single point in the motion, which is the call for elections; an election call that pursues an objective, the only goal that pursues an election call in democracy, which is, in addition to citizens voting, in this case change to a government. And we justify it in three points, three points which we understand justify that we have reached a limit situation in Catalonia, that we have reached a situation whose only democratic way out is to go to the ballot boxes, but to the genuine ballot boxes, to the constitutional ones, to the democratic ones. First, the inaction of the Government. We have had a season of inaction, in which many things have remained, many solutions to the real problems of Catalans, in the drawer, in the same drawer where I imagine the law of disconnection will also be. For in that drawer where the law of disconnection is, many reforms have also remained pending. We could list them all, in three_minutes they will understand that there is no time, but, of course, it surprises: no law to fight corruption, absolutely nothing; tax cuts, absolutely nothing; support for the self-employed, absolutely nothing; free textbooks, absolutely nothing. And so an endless list of policies that have remained in the drawer, because there was always something more important than citizens, which was the monotheme. The second point is an unprecedented government crisis that we are living in Catalonia. We believe that we have reached a limit, too, from this point of view. A crisis in which independent councillors who are quick to doubt are literally thrown out of the government. More than Junts for Yes..., you are no longer Junts or Pel Yes. They are in a situation where Junqueras, in which Esquerra, instead of being an ally in the fight against corruption, has become the neck of the process, its best partner. And the truth is that we have to acknowledge to Convergence the merit of having convinced Junqueras that corruption should be dealt with. And I think that's something that you should recognize, because I imagine it won't have been easy. Well, I believe that, in fact, it has been easy, because Mr Junqueras did not put in them a condition, nor a condition to fight against corruption, absolutely not a condition, and what he does, as I say, is to cover up Convergence's corruption, 3 percent, papers in a drawer, absolutely everything. The third point that we believe we need to call elections is because you are not only skipping the laws, you are saying it every day – I imagine that you already don't care – but also because the most serious thing is that you are doing it against most Catalans. Remember this phrase if one day they have the courage to sign the summons decree, remember this phrase if one day they have the courage to process the laws for rupture: everything they are doing is doing against most Catalans [[remorse of the voice]] , which we want to remain Spanish, Catalan and European. I'd ask for some respect, President, if possible, to finish the intervention... [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Thank you. I know you're a little more nervous about the account, 'cause maybe you don't repeat on the lists, but I'd ask you for a little silence. [[Some applause.]] As I told you, if you ever dare to sign the decree, as I said, if you ever dare to make decisions, remember that they will be doing it from behind to most Catalans, remember that they will be doing it from behind to most Catalans, that yes, they feel and we feel Catalans, Spanish and European. Therefore, the only democratic exit we have at the moment is the call for an election; elections which are the only ones that seek to change government, which is to throw them democratically out of government; elections with which we want to replace them, we want to replace them. Why? Because they have been mismanagement of the Generalitat for too long, because they have shown that they do not want to regenerate themselves, because they have shown that they do not want to fight corruption, because they have shown that they want to skip the laws every day and because they have shown that they want to do things on their backs and silence the majority of Catalans, that we feel and that we want to remain Catalan, Spanish and European. For all that, we ask Mr Puigdemont to do Catalonia one last favor. I already know that we are in the last stage of Mr Puigdemont, I know that we are in the middle of an operation out of the government, I know that we are at a time when Puigdemont lives his last days as President of the Generalitat, and we ask him to do one last favor to Catalonia : to call elections to go to the polls for real, to go out and win them, to end thirty years of corrupt convergence and to win in the polls where democratic battles are won. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.3.0	Next... [[The applause continues.]] Thank you, Mr. De Paramo. The words of Mrs Eva Granados, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.4.0	Thank you, President. Also, from the Socialist Parliamentary Group, address a message to those people who have been involved in this accident, users of public transport, and also to support public servers who are helping to overcome this situation. We haven't made any papers in this young man. We think she's a young lady who may be embarrassed, because in the end she has the ability to call elections, she's the president, with a summons decree, and not a parliament of Catalonia. And we haven't made any papers, but we'll pick it up, because we also agree in the diagnosis that Catalonia needs elections, autonomous elections. It would seem that today is the last day..., we are clear that it is the session period, the last day, too, of an ordinary plethora, and perhaps, at last, the last ordinary plethora of this legislature. We also consider that we are in an environment of end-of-cycle, point-of-inflection. This inquiry was made by Mr De Páramo to the Lord Munté, who is no longer there; she has been replaced by Mr Turull, who divides the staff between hyperventilates and typhismists. I don't know if we pose in one or the other. In any case, if the typhismists mean to sail for the self-government of our home, to sail for the guarantee of the laws and the guarantee in the processes, therefore, we pose here. We are in front of a government in permanent crisis, said the president of my group; for what it seems, a government that is willing to place our institutions outside the law, and also a government that has committed itself to throwing a plan of government, that it has not to be agreed, that it is the one that presented President Puigdemont here, and that this balance is also clearly insufficient, a balance in which the government is clearly suspicious. And a government, too, is unable to carry laws, here, of content; a government that loses and loses votes – sure that, if we add up all the votes that have been lost in this legislature, they are more than all the democratic governments of this country have lost in all the legislatures. And also a government that does not read to Parliament, because it has governing partners with those who do not share a country model, because it is clear that there are different country models and between its parliamentary partners even more; a situation of exceptionality that we see when, in this plenary, when the Climate Change Law is approved, there is no expectation, there are not many advisors listening to the parliamentary debate, but it does seem that when it comes to the Regulation, it is when these expectations and headlines are generated. I would like, in the time I have left, to reflect and say that at some point we will have to think of what Catalonia should be when the process is over. And the socialists like to talk more about the model than about the process, because while we are carrying these five years of exhaustion we are not making the reforms that they touch, not about the country, and it is obvious that, with a government that first agreed with the People's Party, we need to remember, a government that after – Convergence and Union – agreed with the Republican Left, and that now these two parties, with the CUP, so they want to bring us to place the institutions out of the law, but when it comes to fiscal reforms, when there are proposals for an increase in taxes, then the Republican Left Government and the PDECAT have no problem with negotiating with the People's Party, so there are no more resources. And this is the situation we have in our country. There is at this time a government that has fixed everything in the process, a process that has arisen conflict. And at these times we're all on the lookout for entry into this law, which will be suspended, because the Board of State Guarantees has told us that they don't have the skills to do what they want to do. Finally, I also want to say, to the Lords of Ciutadans, a little coherence, also, because Mr De Páramo, when he questioned the Councilwoman Munté, spoke of public policies, but later he agreed with the People's Party a tax reform that leaves us with less resources to make these public policies. Talk about zero-three, talk about text books, but with these tax reforms we'll have less resources for the people who need it the most. Talk about corruption, but we don't know if Ciutadans, to the Congress of Deputies, will pick up the proposal because Mariano Rajoy will appear in the Plenary of the Congress of Deputies to talk about the corruption that affects his party. In any case, a mischievous young woman. We know that the president is the only one who can call elections. But the Socialist Party, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, we believe that it is an end of the cycle, that we are in a conflict and a government that wants to put institutions out of the law, and therefore we will gather this young man. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.5.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Granados. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.6.0	Thank you very much, President. Councillor, Members, Members, well, we share a little the melancholy feeling that the speakers who have preceded me, in the sense that we are, indeed, before an exhausted legislature. We, in this case, are abstaining, not because we do not share many things about the diagnosis and the statements that have been made, but simply because, in fact, we are already engaged in a new electoral contest, we are in the prolegoms of this electoral contest and the only thing left to decide is in which political scenes, after '1 October, this contest will take place. Because it is obvious that the legislature is exhausted, and in this sense the motion proposed to us by Ciutadans affirms an indisputable reality. We've been in a legislature that's been dominated by an initial false settlement, a settlement that, far from being led, has been aggravating in the course of time. In fact, as a plebiscite in favor of independence, the elections of 27 September, we have said, and we have repeated it many times, they gave a majority of exemptions to the party in favour of independence but not a majority of votes or enough social support. The whole legislature, in fact, has been marked so far, and it is still standing, because of the contradiction between..., a majority who, even if not having the social base that supported his speech and his proposal, wanted to do as he did, as if he did. Tothom recalls the famous resolution that marked the legislature, on November 9, 2015, proclaiming the principle of disconnection with Spain and the solemn disobedience of the Constitutional Court. That solemn announcement did not prevent the finances of the Generalitat from continuing to burden the FLA, nor that the Government presented a lot of resources to the Constitutional Court; perfectly legitimate resources, many times; more resources than you read, because, of the forty-five projects announced, very few have come to an end: one of them, survived, before the challenge of a whole series of articles of the Law 24/2015, of residential emergence, and another, the guaranteed income of citizenship, which has cost years and breads to achieve and on which will heat a vigilant novel, because the social problems have not been the characteristic battling of this Government. Just remember the plenary on poverty which was celebrated at the initiative of the Socialist Party and our parliamentary group; the unsuccessful debates around the tax policy of the Generalitat, with the obstinate rejection by the Government of introducing a more redistributive tax policy into the autonomic trams; just remembering the negligent bargaining will of the assumptions or the fact that Mr Junqueras is no longer, not so alone, making assumptions for 2018. When he saw that it was impossible to support the report of the express disconnection, he recovered the object of the reference; a proposal that we, as we know, have always defended, but that the Government raise as something absolutely empty of democratic content, because the call of October 1 does not meet the requirements of a consultation with guarantees and which can be recognized. It is, therefore, a proposal which, along the lines of uniting Catalan society, divides it, which confronts, at last, with them, the supporters of a major self-government and a full national recognition of Catalonia. In fact, it is presented this date as an ultimatum not only respecting the Rajoy government, but the same Catalan society. The government, doing this, has subdued the institutions and the same government to an intolerable tension, and has reached the government's expulsion that we have experienced these last few days. We have, therefore, a failed government and president, who survive themselves in a runaway leading to irresponsible. And it's true, all this can only be resolved in the polls, with a new election that allows you to set up a new majority and another government. We would want a progressive government, and that's what we expect. In these moments, however, and in the extremely limited framework of the debate that can be produced around a young person, the demand made does not have the possibility to prosper and can, more quickly, be a toast to the sun or a missed occasion. On the contrary, and that is what we would like to point out, we have ahead of us, or we should have ahead of us – perhaps it is more accurate to say so – in September, an irrevocable debate on general policy. I do not know whether we will have this general policy debate or whether our wish will be as illusory as the motion of the House itself, because in the last speech of President Puigdemont I believe that many of us have had the impression that it was a typical report of the end of the legislature, in which he presents an inventory, and probably could have concluded: "We, collect the tools, and the last, that turn off the light. Because this was the end of the reign that presided over President Puigdemont's speech. In this sense, we understand the reasonings that have been expressed and that are the foundation of the motion, but we will abstain, in hope, and demand this debate in good and in good form, with the time and parliamentary rigour that is running out and that we want and demand that it is produced in September. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.7.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.8.0	All right, thank you, President. First, obviously, to convey our best wishes to the wounds of today's accident and their families, and obviously, also, thanks and gratitude to the public servants who are working hours of the day in the accident. And in a very telegraphic way, first of all, to say that we will gather the young man. The legislature is finished, it is a legislature that does not have elections that the same summonses had qualified as plebiscites, that is to say, it had to count votes and not ignore, were extraordinary. Like they lost their votes, then they were back to being conventional autonomic elections and they continued with the same agenda, as well as losing the plebiscite. This was obviously not going to end well, because the agenda of the groups gathering the Government is not the same, on the contrary, it does not have any type of coincidence, and it is, indeed, a legislature that has not had any type of success in managing, in social policy, in economic policy and, therefore, it has ended once and for all, and they also know it. Therefore, we will gather the young man. And finally, in an extraordinarily cordial way, as Mrs. Granados already knows of ''I appreciate that I have it, but I would receive it the Ceregumil, that natural medicine for memory, because the Artur Mas began his singleness not with the recollection of the Popular Party, but with the recollection at the investiture of the Socialist Party. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.9.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Fernández. Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.10.0	Yes, hello, very good morning. Obviously, a motion for a motion from Ciutadans to make some autonomous elections, on the part of the CUP - Crida Constituent can only be answered by saying that, for us, the real exercise of democratic radicality is to make a reference. A few autonomous elections now that would only support the status that, as a minimum, a majority of this country has right to question. But, beyond that, this morning, and while we are certainly following with concern the news of the train accident, the spokesman, president and leader of the delegation of the State of Ciutadans in Catalonia, the Mrs. Arrimadas, was really revealing to us what is behind the reference and who is the real concern. She said: "We would never be in favour of a reference of which we do not share the result. Nor would we want a reference to NATO, we would not want a reference to the European Union, because we do not share the result that it could come out of it. Therefore, the real question of funds is this: Citizens are not interested, in democracy if this answer so that they do not share. The rights of minorities that you claim, the democracy that you claim, are only willing to use it when it satisfies your interests, those of IBEX 35. And we are here to satisfy the interests of the majority of the people. Just add that Mr.Rabell seems to us that every day he's doing more merit, perhaps, because he's giving her the Princess of Asturies award. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.11.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Next, has the words of Mr Albert Batet, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Sí... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.12.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members and Members, first of all, also on behalf of the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, to bring our call to the people injured by the train accident today at the station of France and a thank you to all the people who are contributing, therefore, to improve their state and, ultimately, therefore, to help the victims of this accident. Ladies and gentlemen of Ciutadans, we shall vote against the proposal to call an election to Parliament. If you want to call for autonomous elections in Catalonia, start campaigning so that ‘do not win the referendum. If that's the case, they'll call for autonomous elections. Otherwise, of course, Catalonia will be an independent state. [[Greetings.]] Mrs. Arrimadas today in Catalonia Radio made a statement – it's not literally what I'm saying, but the context was this – saying: "We don't agree with any reference because we don't agree with independence. Man, that's pretty democratic, all of it. The report that the reference has the option of 'yes' and has the option of 'no', and I recommend that they campaign for 'no' and that they let the citizens be the ones who adultly triage the future of our country. Presenting a motion to Parliament to demand that elections be called denotes a double ignorance. The first is to take him to the President of the Generalitat de Catalunya with the power to call elections. The Parliament can do many things, many things, but not call an election; this, for you, is only the decision of the President. The second is not to hear or not to want to hear about the political process that our country has seen. Allow me to give you a little rest that may refresh our memory and help us to understand why there will be a reference to Catalonia on October 1st. It has been many years, since, that there exists the Generalitat of Catalonia. In fact, President Puigdemont is the one hundred and thirty President of the Generality; it is not surprising to remember it. At the length of history, the country has experienced moments of freedom, moments of more or less self-government, and even times of persecution and annihilation of institutions, civil rights, language and culture. That same hemicicles where we are today and where some of the rivers have been taped for forty years. With the arrival of President Tarradellas, ahead of the approval of the Spanish Constitution, the Generalitat confirmed its historical continuity as the institution of self-government of Catalans and Catalans. Then came the constitutional debate, totally conditioned by the recent Franco dictatorship. The adoption of the Constitution opened a new stage of self-government in which Catalonia played its part, not only to rebuild the country, but to help the State to be more modern, more democratic and more European. No one could deny, or deny today, the ingenious work that is fire at this stage during the governments of Convergence and Union to the Generality, together with the attendance and the effort of the hundreds of Catalan assemblies. And when the seams of our own self-government have already faded, and we have made strides to take better care of our people and our territories, it is proposed that many of you ask today: a new pact with the State. The 2006 Statute was a new pact with the State. Do I remember? Remember: « Pasqual, will I respect the Statute that comes out of the Parliament of Catalonia? So, everybody knows how this ended. In 2010 twelve members appointed by the Congress of Deputies, many of them with the expired mandate, fulminated the State approved by the Courts and, most importantly, approved by the citizens and citizens of Catalonia in a referendum. And at this point, the pact was broken. You didn't vote in the State referendum? They're going to vote yes or they're going to vote no. But, in the absence of a vote, at that moment the twelve gentlemen, representing the power of the State, passed through the arch of triumph their vote, their decision and that which had been decided by the people of Catalonia. It is just that at this time a great majority of Catalans and Catalans are protagonists in a peaceful, democratic and sustained revolution that they ask us all: they asked the governments of the President but they should also ask you; a democratic revolution to vote, to decide freely our future, to self-governance us, to hold the instruments that the State systematically denies us and to be able to serve the citizens and territories of Catalonia better. That's why we're voting not for your young lady, because we want to make a reference and not for an election to Parliament, because we want to settle in the ballot box what you and your friends from the Constitutional Court have carried, because we want Catalans and Catalans to speak and decide freely which country they want for their children: a modern, plural European state, in favor of their people or to follow a community that is less autonomous for a state that doesn't hesitate to use the keys to destroy who likes to plant their faces.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.13.0	Mr. Battle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.14.0	We're very clear about this. Ladies and gentlemen of the Unionist parties, we will find ourselves in the campaign by referring calmly to the arguments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.15.0	Mr. Battle, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.16.0	Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.17.0	Thank you, Mr. Battle. Once the debate is over, we are calling for a vote. Mr. Rabell, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.18.0	For contradictions, President, and for allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.19.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.20.0	No, tell Mrs. Gabriel: I don't know if I'll ever get any prizes that I can honor, what I can say is that I belong to a tradition of left-wings that discuss arguments and don't disqualify people. [[voice remorse and applause]] A tradition from time to time... [[voice remorse and applause persists]] Please... [[Someone says, "You're going to break the table.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.21.0	Easy, huh? - Don't worry, huh? I don't know if I ever...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.22.0	...I have always recognized myself in a tradition of the Catalan lefts represented by Andreu Nin, who was the victim precisely of those who introduced the methods of the Inquisition into the debates of the lefts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.23.0	Mr De Paramo, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.24.0	Yes, by allusions of Mrs. Granados. Well, before I say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.25.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.26.0	Yes, before I say that another parliamentary group can be applauded, nothing happens. Don't get so nervous. Mrs Granados, you are not very consistent with the subject of the referendum because you have municipalities where you defend the referendum and then here you do not defend it. But in what you are very consistent is that you do not want to lower taxes to the milleurists: neither in the Congress of Deputies nor in the Parliament of Catalonia. Do you know who has lowered taxes and the IRPF to the milleurists? Not the Spanish Socialist Workers Party, but Citizens. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.27.0	Mrs. Granados, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.28.0	To answer to Mr. De Paramo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.29.0	References..............................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.30.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.31.0	For allusions. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.32.0	Mr De Páramo, here in the end the political situation in Catalonia and the conflict that lives with Spain can be divided into three sides: the immovilistas, where I put it to you and the People's Party; those who want to break the law, and those who try to solve it. [[Greetings and strong remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.33.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.34.0	For direct allusions of Mr. Batalla and Mrs. Gabriel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.35.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.36.0	Thank you for giving me the opportunity to participate in a motion in which I did not intervene, and three things. We do not defend the referendum exactly as you spent a year doing, denying the referendum, because it was supposedly already done. I guess at that time you weren't democrats, you gave yourself a fart in the head, take it into account. [[Greetings.]] The second thing. You're getting more and more alone. It is this Chamber, this part of the Chamber that represents less Catalans than the four groups we represent to the opposition that will approve the change of the Rules and the Referendum Act. And finally, Mrs Gabriel, referring, the Democrats, where we see ourselves is not in the street and with threats, the Democrats where we see ourselves is in the polls of the elections, and there we wait for them. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.37.0	We'll proceed to vote on the motion. The vote begins. The motion on the action of the Government of the Eleventh Legislature was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 69 against and 10 abstentions. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into external action]] [[302-00179/11]] The next item on the agenda is the following question to the Government on external action, presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose it has the word Mr. Juan Milián. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please, as always, ask them to leave in a hurry and in silence, because we have to continue with the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.38.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, Members, Members of Parliament, before they arrive, would also convey solidarity with the injuries caused by the train accident, the lives of their families and thanks to the emergency services. The external action of the current Government of the Generality has failed. It's an objective fact: one looks at the Junts for the Yes program and sees that it has not completed the electoral promises, which are basically summed up in the international recognition, in divided_months, of Catalonia's independence. It is clear that no government has supported the independence process, as neither has the European Union nor the United Nations, despite all the public resources that have been engaged in this endeavour. Only timid support has been provided for democratic policies that are not much more than recommanable; support for Finnish or Italian Eurosceptics, or for a North American policy that, after meeting with Marine Le Pen and Carles Puigdemont, went to the United States Congress to ask about the existence of aliens. In other words, international support for the process is limited to policies that do not believe in Europe and policies that believe in Martians. The generality had never spent so much on outside action and had never managed so little. In fact, the only one who is succeeding, the only one who is succeeding in this Government, is to seriously harm the image of the Catalan institutions and to harm the interests of the majority of Catalans, damaging the image of the Catalan institutions as the Juntes per el Si deputies have now done by leaving this Parliament. Every time Mr. Puigdemont tells the foreign press that the law will be dropped, it's an argument in favour of those who compete with Catalonia to attract businesses, attract investments or attract theirs from the European Medicines Agency. The People's Party presents a motion that if it is approved substantially the external action of the Generality; we would put it to the service of the Catalan economic promotion, of our culture, of the knowledge exchange and added value; we would make it more efficient, more transparent and to the service of all Catalans. In this sense I would like to stress that we want to put in value in this motion the collaboration of the Government of Spain with the Generality and the Assembly of Barcelona in favor of the candidacy of this capital to accommodate its of the European Medicines Agency; we believe that this is the way. I would now like to greet and welcome representatives of Venezuelan associations, the Alliance for Freedom of Venezuela or the Association of Pensioners and Retirees of Venezuela in Catalonia, among others. [[Greetings.]] At the beginning of the week, speaking to one of you, I told him that perhaps this week we would give you a joy in the Parliament of Catalonia, and if nothing is twisted it seems that we will give him three joys, three small joys. These are insignificant joys compared to the pain and suffering that Venezuelans have suffered for years, but especially in recent months, since the Government of Nicolás Maduro has lost its shame and no longer conceals its systematic violation of human rights. In this regard, we call on the Parliament of Catalonia to express its utmost concern and condemnation of the violations of human rights by the Venezuelan regime. Secondly, we call on this House to show its utmost solidarity with all those people imprisoned for political reasons and we call on the Government of Venezuela for their immediate release. And finally, a point that you do not know the emotion that would cause me to be approved, and I think it is the most important point and for which you have fought so much these months, these years. There are thousands of Venezuelans who are also Catalans and who suffer the consequences of a failed political and economic system, not only from the distance, but also in their own flesh. I refer, in particular, to all those pensioners who, after decades of struggle and work, have been suffering for more than twenty months from the non-payment of their pensions by the Maduro regime; people who are living a real tragedy, not in Caracas anymore, but here in Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain, Europe. We were able to verify this at the appearance of Pejucat, who accompanies us today and to whom some of those who will speak today in this motion did not dignify themselves to attend. But today I believe that Parliament will approve this proposal from the People's Party that asks the Generalitat to put in place the necessary measures so that, as long as the non-payment of pensions to pensioners from Venezuela who reside in Catalonia persists, those affected can access social assistance services and systems. Their battle has been long and I believe that today, at last, the Parliament has listened to them. Let's hope the Generalitat does. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.39.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. To defend the papers presented, Mr Ferran Pedret of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.40.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, also a greeting to the people who accompany us from the public gallery or to those who may be following this debate through the media offered by Parliament. The People's Parliamentary Group is proposing to us a motion subsequent to the question which it made in the field of external action of the Government of Catalonia which contains aspects, let us say, which answer to different questions, to questions which are quite different, in the field of external action, right? , and therefore I will not say that it is of tailor's rank, because certainly within the field of external action there could be many more things, but it is a determined selection that the People's Parliamentary Group respects this external action of the Generality. We must tell you, first of all, that we regret that it has not been possible to incorporate the points that our parliamentary group had made to its representative. In the first place, and for what it does to concern, which we share, for the situation of extreme tension, of violence, of violation of rights that is produced in Venice, we tried to incorporate a text that seemed to be more appropriate to the reality of the facts than the one originally contained in the text. So, you guys, I don't know if you're dealing, with any other stuff, or, let's just say, doing a technical correction, you left a mention in the text of the Venice situation that seems right to me, huh? It speaks of the Parliament of Catalonia expressing its greatest concern and condemnation of violations of the human rights of Venice. Indeed, observers of all kinds, organizations that go beyond human rights, but also international observers, third states and others, note that there is a situation of violation of rights in Venice, but alert, not only on the part of those who have the greatest responsibility, obviously, that they are the institutional actors: we have to say, and that this is also taken into account – because sometimes the information that above Venice has a remarkable bliss – that there have also been assassinations of people who are supporters of the Venetian government, who in some cases have produced themselves in a tumultuous and especially cruel way, such as shooting people who were found alive at the time that this happened. It is to say that, in the same way that there have been assassinations of opposition supporters and that there are actually entrepreneurs of opposition supporters or capers, there is also a situation, let's say, of political violence against government supporters; a situation that I think would have to worry enormously, right? After that, we also asked him a question, but this perhaps, let us say, in the current context is less relevant, because, since he spoke of the general foreign action of the Government of Catalonia, we pretended that the Parliament of Catalonia expressed its utmost solidarity with all prisoners for political reasons, for the world, because there are no prisoners, for political reasons and for the conscience of the world, and that their immediate release is therefore demanded at all times, right? Well, you and your group didn't want to incorporate this perspective, because they wanted to talk specifically about Venice. The truth is that both Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch talk about the existence of prisoners of conscience and political prisoners. Therefore, in the case of Venice, and we, in this case, as in all the others – and we hope that it will also be the attitude of its parliamentary group – demand the release of those people who are considered political prisoners or prisoners of conscience. But in all cases. And then there's a couple of questions that you've raised about the resources that the Government of the Generalitat has to allocate to external action, and it's centered, as they have done in other motions, on issues such as the promotion of the Catalan economy, tourism, too, it's true, it now includes culture, the knowledge exchange, the added value... I think they always have a very related perspective to the economic promotion, that it's not like the Generalitat doesn't have to do with its external delegations, but it seems to me that the Law of External Action provides for a broader scope of action, that we share, in what we say, the diffusion of the social and political reality of Catalonia has to do with the example that it can do, and that it has to do with the example that it can do, and that it can do with the example of the people of Catalonia. And, therefore, here we shall abstain. As we will also abstain from the point where you are calling for greater transparency of actions and expenses due to completion by government delegations abroad, not because we disagree with this, but because they say that it must be the same way that it is done before the Foreign Agents Registration Act, which is a specific regulation of the United States of America, originating in year 38, and that we believe that it does not fit, nor by reason of the subjects to be controlled, nor by reason, let us say to ourselves, of its mechanisms, with which we can do here. But, go on, let's say, we ask for a separate vote, president – profit to do it – of points 1.a, 1.b and 1.f, eh? , that set the points on which we would abstain. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. The words of Ms. Susana Beltrán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.42.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members..., thanks in particular to the Member Milián, who has brought us this motion on the rights and freedoms of all Venezuelans; from our group, our support and solidarity. We are very happy that Junts pel Yes and the People's Party have agreed that all those pensioners we had the opportunity to hear in attendance not long ago in this Parliament can receive social assistance from Catalonia; we are very happy. For this reason alone, this motion was worth it. Now, it is also a motion that takes stock of what this legislature is about, and there we are much more critical. We have been in Parliament for almost two years, and my question would be: does it not seem strange to you that, in two years, or in almost two years, you have not appeared to explain what delegations or those responsible for delegations abroad are doing? Two years; two years who have not been worthy to explain their actions. And it's not because you haven't come to Barcelona, and I'll set you an example, as others could, right? The delegate of the Austrian delegation was in an act, a few months ago, of Republican Left, and it is not because it seems to us bad that they go to acts of Republican Left, but because we believe that they should also come to this Parliament to explain their management, simply – simply – and simply. We too from my party ask for access to information, to the public agenda of all these delegates, to tell us what they are doing on behalf of all Catalans. And I must say – and I also say this as an example – that by comparing the information that the Generalitat of Catalonia gave us, right? , on the activities, for example, of the delegation of Catalonia in the United States, we must think that in January and February they did not go to work, because there is no meeting of the leaders of the delegation of Catalonia in the United States. Instead, taking the American law, the FARA law, huh? , which therefore obliges to publicize the activities, there is evidence that in February 2017 there were eleven meetings of delegates, of officials of the Catalan delegation in the United States, congressmen, with Congress staff, etc., eleven meetings, when here, official documentation, there is no record of any meeting. In the same way that in this American register FARA it is stated that in March there were six meetings, in the official documentation given to us by the Generalitat it is stated that there were three meetings, but these three meetings are not the same, do not coincide with the six meetings that are in the American register. So it's about nine in total, but there could be more. I mean, you guys compare. Both are official documentation, both have been provided by the Generalitat de Catalunya, one where it is reported that in January and February they did not meet, huh? , is from the Catalan delegation to the Citizens' Group, and this is the American registry, where there have been many more meetings [[some applause]] about what they're telling us. Nor do you want to explain in these two years the external action plans, a plan that ends, the Morocco plan, and that you know how the last cancelled trip of the Catalan delegation ended. Or the 2015-2018 External Action Plan, which is halfway there, and they didn't want to appear to explain. Or the Japan 2016-2019 plan, where practically most of the activities are carried out by Casa Asia, which is in a very serious economic situation, eh? , and they do not want to approve or do not want to approve in the budgets the amendments that we ask for Casa Asia, so that they can continue; nor do they want to give explanations to this effect. What is the most serious thing for my group? For the fact that we are denied or hidden information. I think that is indirectly or directly deceiving all the citizens of Catalonia. It's very serious. I don't know how many times, counselor, I've been protected. I do not tell you to leave, but I do tell you to go on holiday, rest; think about what the control action of this Parliament is. Your advice, rather than a transparency advice, seems to be the advice of a dark and dark night, and to Members who want access to information we have to go to English law, don't we? , access to information, to American law...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.43.0	Mrs Beltrán, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.44.0	... or – and I finish – Google's tracker. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.45.0	Thank you, Mrs Beltran. The words of Mr. Jordi Sendra, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.46.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillor... Gentlemen of the People's Party, you with this motion come together more and more each time to the parliamentary group of the Catalan Civil Society, and not just because they are « very Spanish and « very » Spanish but because each time they like to make motions of this style poti-poti, all fruits, touch everything. And the truth is, after the unqualified speech of his spokesman in control of the government, I was quick to drop them and go on vacation. But it is true that there are things about this young man that were to be said and that there was to be no written conscience. And that's why we submitted papers and that's why we started a negotiation with the People's Party. Yes, it's true that you've done a little bit like that guy who goes to the main party ball and wants to dance with everyone, and in the end, to want to dance with everyone, it's more lonely than one. And he got them off the hook, didn't he? Because it is true that there are fears that he has negotiated them with us and that he has traded them with us, and there are others who have wanted to dance with someone else and in the end he will be left alone because he will not win the points. Getting into the subject of the young person, in point 1a, where he was talking about allocating the resources of external action to culture, economic promotion, knowledge interaction... It's obvious that that's what this is about. It's just that we don't agree on this point. It is obvious that the resources of external action are useful for this. That's why every time we have more foreign investment; that's why every time our businesses are more internationalized; that's why every time more tourists come. This is also why Catalonia is the country invited to the Smithsonian Folklife Festival, the most important annual cultural event in the capital of the United States. And it's obvious that this is all happening, too, because of the good external action of the Government of Catalonia. And I also have to tell you that it's true that the government also has an obligation to explain what's going on. And, therefore, I, at this point, when you speak of knowledge interaction, I understand that information is knowledge, and that the Government of Catalonia interacts with any country in the world that has an interest in knowing what is happening politically in this country of ours... so, do it, have the obligation to do it and will continue to do so. In paragraph 1b, in paragraph 1b, in which you ask for the issue of transparency, we reassure you in what we have presented: that the law of transparency be applied, that the law 19/2014 be applied, transparency, access to information and good governance, in the field of external action. It was as easy as that, to apply the law of transparency. You wanted to dance with Ciutadans, and therefore, we would vote not at this point, just as we would vote not at the 1a point that you have accepted papers. In point c, it is obvious that now as the resolution of the topic of the European Medicines Agency is also very much about the collaboration of all the institutions that have something to say, and therefore it seems to us already well that it is keeping this point of continuing to work with the Government of Spain, with the Barcelona Assembly, with the other social and economic agents, so that Barcelona follows its own of the European Medicines Agency. So, at this point c, all of our support. Point d: do not use data from the Catalan and Catalan external resident registry for purposes not foreseen by the law. It's just that there's no doubt about it, it's that the law that works in the Catalan and Catalan Foreign Resident Register is the law of the Catalan overseas community, and it's obvious that it's going to strictly complement what this law says in relation to the registry. And, therefore, we have no problem giving support to this point. Also, in relation to the House of Asia, you had the occasion..., we presented them with a message in which we said: « Escort, they have to present the plan of viability; we study the plan of viability and according to this – depending on this – we can make decisions. And you didn't want it, and so I don't know what's going to happen to this point. In relation to the jury..., to the Catalonia International Prize, Mr. Lula da Silva, we have already told you that it is not the government that gives prizes, but that it is a jury, and that, therefore, the possibility of changing its resolutions should be transferred to this jury. And about Venice, yes we are concerned– yes we are concerned–; that is why we have sought consent. Respect for the human rights of Veneçuela? Everything. But in Catalonia too. Because the first human right is the right to self-determination and you trepitgen barroerously every day. Express solidarity and claim the release of political prisoners in Venice? Yes, of course; but solidarity also with those political convictions for having placed the ballot box on 9-N or for claiming to debate independence; solidarity and rehabilitation. Dialogue and settlement of the political conflict? Yes, in Venice and Catalonia too, because you in Catalonia do not want it, the dialect, because you have nothing to offer. And, therefore, they cannot applaud the Venice referendum and fight for land, sea and air and subsoil against the Catalonian one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.47.0	Mr. Sendra, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.48.0	Thank you; thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.49.0	Thank you, Mr. Sendra. Next, to fix his position, has the word Joan Josep Nuet, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.50.0	Thank you, President. If the People's Party has a bit of shame, before talking about corruption in Brazil or Venice it's good for the hands; the brute hands of the most corrupt party in Europe, the brute hands of filling envelopes that Mr. Mariano Rajoy has collected – I don't know if the members of the People's Party who sit in this room have also participated in this operation, it would be good if they explained it to us. [[remorse of voice and some applause]] – the crude hands of the People's Party of Workers in Genoa, its of the People's Party in Madrid, and the crude hands of paying election campaigns millionaires with which they won elections with lies and corruption, PP election campaigns paid with our money and which they made win illegally elections, I do not know if you elect in Catalonia that they gave them the message that at this time there are rich deputies and deputies of the People's Party. [[Greetings.]] If the People's Party had a bit of shame, only a little, at the time of talking about human rights and filling its mouth with human rights, it would remember the trio of the Azores; the trio of the Azores that participated in the war of Iraq, millions and millions of dead people, with a decision by José María Aznar. Why don't they put the weapons of mass destruction on this young man, too? It would have been fun, in this young man who sweeps down the streets with mermaids and wants to start some parliamentary group. You should remember and put in this motion that José María Aznar would have to appear before the International Criminal Tribunal for war crimes, and that he is a murder that should be tried. Why don't you write this on this young man? Maybe we should've voted for this point, Mr. Congressman. The same Aznar, I would like to recall, what a lobbyist he was before Muhammad al-Gaddafi, representing Spanish businesses; that is, changing a substantial commission. Obviously, these things aren't there at all. Maybe we should've voted in favour of those points. And, look, I have to tell you that I'm deeply disappointed with the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes, because, comrade Sendra, you can't go to the Civil Guard in the morning and later vote on the People's Party's motions. This is incoherence, absolute incoherence! [[Greetings.]] And I have to tell the deputies of Junts for Yes, friends and friends, that, when they press the green button of yes, they remember that they are voting with the People's Party, with the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party, which is mocking the competitions in external action of the State of Catalonia. Recordin, when they hold the yes button of the People's Party movement, that this party ridicules the external action adviser of the Government of Catalonia, its Government, my Government. Remember when you press the yes button of some of the points of this motion that you have managed to make because you pass us all a little more sweet than the People's Party makes cheap demagogic with the pocket of delegations and delegates of the Government of Catalonia abroad, and that, after you vote yes, you will continue to make the same demagogic, because the monster does not feed it, honourable Members..., is said enough. And that's yes or no; just like October 1. But now they have to vote no to the People's Party motion, because it is incompatible with voting yes October 1. Remember that, deputies and deputies. And record, at the time of voting the green button of the People's Party Movement, of some points that have come from this People's Party Movement, that the People's Party frivolizes with the vote of the Catalans who see it foreign and manipulates the concept of the hundreds of Catalans residing abroad. When you press the yes button at a few points of this Popular Party movement, friends and friends of Junts for the Yes, think about all of this. And, as my mother says, if anyone understands them, I'll buy them. Thank you very much. [[Crits of "Very good! The applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.51.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Nuet. Next is the words of Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidature Group - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.52.0	Well, good morning, and thank you, President. We, the Lords and Lords of the People's Party, will vote against your motion. And do you know why we're doing this, Mr. Milián? Because after his step for this phrasing I have to paraphrase what Commander Chavez said to the United Nations, when he touched him talking to Mr. Bush. And I must also tell you, Mr. Milián, that here it smells like sulfur. Listen to me. [[Give me the applause.]] For what it does to the external action of the Catalan Government, we can in any case question the limitations, the abst, all too often self-limited, from our point of view. And we would wish for more initiative, disobedience and joy. But no matter how we share it, ladies and gentlemen of the People's Party, the questions you're making about it, we won't add to the fear you're making of this young man. For what he does to Venice, what is really at stake at these moments is the main oilfield on the planet and whether this oilfield should be in the hands of the Venetian popular classes or whether it should be in the hands of the Venetian oligarchies, the United States and the big oil companies. And that's why the current Venetian opposition, Mr. Milián, has his own in Washington's political command, and that's why his military command is at the head of the southern part of the North American army, that's why, and with the complicity of Colombian paramilitarism, of the State of Israel, of the foundation of Mr. José María Aznar, among other actors of the extreme international right, and of the transnationals of oil. What is at stake is the Venetian national sovereignty and the anti-imperialist struggle in the conjunct of the Americas. And we in this conflict are where we are, and we are obviously not in the same banner as you, but in that of national and popular sovereignty and, therefore, in the process they constitute, which has a very important tape on the very 30th with the election of a constituent assembly. Certainly, you and Citizens know that you have recently given support to a plebiscite not provided for in the Venetian Constitution. [[remorse of the voice]] , considered not legal for the Venetian government, and, in change...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.53.0	He forgives – he forgives –, deputy. Excuse me. The public has to keep quiet, please. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can I...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.54.0	Thank you, President. I, in change...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.55.0	Always – always.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.56.0	...you and the Ciutadans Group object to the election of an assembly are indeed provided for in the Venetian Constitution and convened for the government of Venice. I hope that, consistently, as much as everyone else, this will seriously reconsider their position for what it does to the Catalan reference of '1 October. And finally, for what he does to President Lula's National Prize, this prize was awarded, as I recall, in recognition of his struggle for democracy and social justice in Brazil, recognized internationally, and as recognition to which he collectively represented, in some moments of great historical change in Brazil, in favor of the popular classes. For us the reasons for which the prize was paid are still valid. And in any case, gentlemen of the PP, if you want to talk about withdrawing prizes and decorations, start for Mr. Juan Carlos I, for Mr. Samaranch, for Mr. Galindo – for the commander Galindo – or for Mr. Martín Villa, and for so many fascists, criminals and corrupts guarded for his rule. Let's start with all these, which they have to work with. While they don't, they don't have democratic credibility. Thank you, President. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.57.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. To pronounce on the exams, has the word Mr. Juan Milián.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.58.0	Thank you, President. Well, Mr. Sendra has criticized me for having spoken to all those who have submitted papers; I understand his overworked intervention, I threatened him, he was talking to me about you; I don't want to hurt him, I thank him for his dialogue and he's already here. Also thank Congresswoman Beltrán. It has enriched the text, with transparency conditions, and it also helps us to regain the strength of an institution as valuable for Catalonia as the House of Asia. We have accepted the 4 Junts for the Yes for what it does to the withdrawal of the International Prize from Catalonia to the sentence for corruption Lula da Silva. As we have said, we have traded the Juntes papers for the Yes that they refer to Venice and, therefore, we believe that the experience of the socialist papers is sufficiently well integrated. Mr. Nuet made one... he was as enterprising as the day he gave the skeleton to the Venetian retirees when they came to Parliament to talk about his pain and his suffering. [[Some applause.]] You shouted a lot. He cried a lot, but he didn't cry enough to silence the pain of these people. I didn't talk about shame. [[Some applause.]] With regard to the intervention of the UPC, we regret that it has been positioned, as Catalonia has done, it is Pot, against the weakest and against those who suffer violations of human rights. But I am happy: today, at least in this Parliament, loses the total caste and wins the Venetian people. Above all, these retired massacres win for the utopia of Maduro, of the CUP i Catalunya Yes it is Pot. You lose the CUP and you win the freedom, you lose the CUP and, therefore, you win the democracy. They like to point out the differences between us and you. Here is – here is – the difference: while the People's Party condemns all dictatorships and all violations of past and present human rights, the CUP is selective and sub bonique words, sometimes pronounced in low view, do not only justify collecting the most fierce atrocities against the defenceless people of Venice. You will continue in your moral superiority cloud giving lessons from democracy to wrong and right, but from now on it will be clear, if it wasn't already, that they're not just cynics, but that they're moving for incontestable interests. From now on, the lessons of the CUP will go through one ear and out through the other. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.59.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Once the debate is over we call for a vote. Mr. Sendra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.60.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.61.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.62.0	Yeah. Dear friend Nuet – and I say it because I have it in a lot of "appreciate, you know – we do not have the exclusivity, I do not have it, to agree with the PP. You do it every day, they did it yesterday, they did it before yesterday, and they did it on Tuesday. Therefore, I do not accuse us of agreeing with the PP when you repeatedly do. And second, maybe you don't, but, listen, from your group that you don't come to me with any lessons about October 1; as a matter of fact, you don't come to me with lessons about October 1 until you've stood up unconditionally and stopped making the sound as you're doing up to now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.63.0	Mr. Salellas, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.64.0	For a point of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.65.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.66.0	Because, despite the fact that the cameras and microphones didn't catch the words, MP Milián, when he went to the place where we found the MPs and MPs of the Popular Unity Candidature, he told us that our political position was a "fucking shame." [[Widow's remorse.]] And we think that this is not an appropriate language for either Parliament or the Member. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.67.0	Thank you, Mr. Benet. Why ask me the word, Mr. Nuet? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet, and please – quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.68.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.69.0	Quiet, and please. [[Pause.]] Thirty seconds, Mr. Nuet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.70.0	Thank you, President. Friend Sendra, you're also a friend, with things to eat you don't play. If you want to make pacts with the PP as you did in this young man, the questions that October 1st help you vote. That's not the way, buddy. This is not the way, friends and friends. The PP winged him, to defeat him [[remorse of the voice]] There's no bridge. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.71.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet. Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.72.0	For a point of order.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.73.0	Say it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.74.0	I would like to ask you, Mr Nuet, if it is possible that you withdraw the expression that you have served in relation to the envelope. And I'll tell you one thing; look, you have to have one thing in front of you, and I'll make it clear to you: as much as I say, 99 percent of the public charges that the People's Party of Catalonia has, 99, live, in most cases, in its municipalities, wards, persecuted by people like you. [[remorse of the voice]] , insults, and have never had the privilege of being a person like you, who is at the Bureau of the Congress, here at the Bureau of the Parliament of Catalonia, nor will they have the half of the dignity that hold the ranks of the People's Party of Catalonia, never liquefied clearly. And please ask him to drop the charges he's made. [[Someone says: "Very good! Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.75.0	Mr. Sendra, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.76.0	For a separate vote, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.77.0	Separate vote. All right. [[Widow's remorse.]] All right, Mr. Sendra. How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.78.0	Vote separate from all subpoints of point 1.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.79.0	Point one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.80.0	All point 1 shall be voted separately, subpoint by subpoint. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.81.0	Before they had also called for a separate vote on points 1a, 1.b and 1.f, which had been asked by Mr Pedret. Can these three points be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] No, no, They cannot vote together. All right, then. And points 1a and 1.b, are there any of those points that can be voted together? [[Pause.]] No, no, All right. Mr. Sendra, did you tell me any points...? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. We'll start the vote. We shall vote in the first place on point 1.a. The vote begins. Point 1.a_has been approved by 96 votes to 19, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.b. The vote begins. The 1.b_point was rejected by 36 votes to 80, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.b bis. The vote begins. Point 1.b bis was rejected by 52 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.c. The vote begins. The 1.c_point was approved by 113 votes in favour, 19 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1.d. The vote begins. The 1.d_point was approved by 112 votes in favour, 20 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on point 1. The vote begins. Point 1.e_has been rejected by 51 votes in favour, 80 against and 1 abstention. Then we'll vote on point 1.f. The vote begins. Point 1.f was approved by 97 votes to 34, with 1 abstention. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Foreign Action Committee was approved by 113 votes to 19, with no abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Proposed legislation of the Tax Code of Catalonia and approval of first, second and third books, relating to the Tax Administration of the Government of Catalonia]] [[202-00039/11]] The next item is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy on the proposal for a law of the Tax Code of Catalonia and for the approval of first, second and third books relating to the Tax Administration of the Government of Catalonia. According to Rule 121 of the Rules of Procedure, Member Maria Senserrich, who is a madwoman appointed as rapporteur, has the words. [[Pause.]] Deputy, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.82.0	President, Members, Members, to excuse, first of all, the members of the Government, because, as you can understand, the circumstances of today are a convulsed hair and they all have..., they must therefore serve the country in their conditions as members of the Government, and as they have excused themselves in my person as rapporteur, because they come in function that vagina may intervene in this plenary, and the demands, therefore, that they have this good will to hear the circumstances. Allow me to greet the secretary of Hisenda, Mr. Lluís Salvado, the director general of Tributes and the director of the tax agency and all his team, who also have today a very prominent paper in the work we have done. And, well, why... what are we doing today? So, basically, we're done, we're going to approve the Tax Code Law. As you know, on July 29, practically one year ago, Junts for the Yes and the CUP - Cry Constituent we entered the Register the initial text, here, to the Parliament of Catalonia, and October 2016 we had the debate to the totality. From then on, we have worked in ponència, with comparisons and with more than one hundred and fifty items, until today's day; jobs that have been possible for many people. And allow me in these minutes as rapporteur to do all the graces, without entering, as I do, in opinions that I will in any case express in my return as Deputy of Junts for the Yes. To thank the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Creed It is that, while the differences, we share a common objective, that is to complete the mandate of 27 September, and after many meetings, hours and lots of work, has made it possible to complete with our compromise. To thank, obviously, the Department of the Hisenda of the Government, with the secretary of Hisenda in the lead, with all his team, the facilities, the availability of all and each of his members at all times, as well as allow me to concretely in Mr. David Camps and Montserrat Bernades, who are the representatives of the department here, in Parliament. Give thanks to the parliamentary services, especially to the electorate, Mr Ferran Domínguez, and to the manager Àngel Zardoya, and obviously also to the deputies– Members of Parliament, because we were all lords– that we composed this question of the Tax Code: Alicia Romero, of the Socialist Party ; Àngels Martínez, of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, and Eulàlia Reguant, of the CUP ; women with conviction, with whom we have shared hours and hours of much debate, reflections and that, from my point of view, in my paper as rapporteur, I have tried to work from the personal and institutional respect that I correspond to, all the differences that obviously are and will be, because that is what Parliament is about. I thank them very much for their patience and their ability to work. And last but not least, thank my parliamentary group, the Junts for the Yes Group, first of all Councillor Turull, for their confidence in honouring me with the responsibility of representing my parliamentary group for a country law. Give thanks to all the Members of my group, all of them, but allow me to especially the Carmina Castellví and Rogent Torrent, travel companies on the economic issues of this legislature, as well as the Jordi Font, advisor of our group. Thank you all for always being there, because one of the things that happens to make a law of this transcendence is to listen, to debate, to negotiate, to agree, surely not all that we want or that you want, but we have always worked from respect, education, giving our face at all times. And, despite everything you've been through, I have firm conviction and satisfaction with the job well done. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.83.0	Thank you very much, Congresswoman. The parliamentary groups will also intervene to defend the reserved items and the items that follow the advice of the Board of State Guarantees. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans, Mr Antonio Espinosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.84.0	Thank you, Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, very good morning. As you know, the position of Citizens is contrary to this proposition of law. The fundamental reason is that we are faced with a tax code that does not intend to order the tax system of Catalonia and improve the service of citizens, it does not intend this; its purpose, on the contrary, is to be an instrument at the service of secession. This tax code that you want to pass today is framed in which you have called it ‘the laws of disconnection,' it is framed in your illegal and grievous laws of disconnection; coduce and illegality that go hand in hand in this tax code and are present from the very beginning of your pregnancy. They agree that, at first, the Government and its support groups tried to process the proposal through one of those joint presentations in which they wanted to involve all parliamentary groups. You wanted to force us to participate in legislative initiatives in which we did not want to be. Naturally, we submitted amparo to the Constitutional Court and we were right, and all the joint submissions were annulled. But the misconceptions did not end then, they arrive until today, and it has had to be the Conseil de Garanties Statutàries himself who tells him. The opinion of the Council of State Guarantees has given us reason in three fundamental respects: one, the Tax Agency of Catalonia can exercise the tax powers conferred on it by the Constitution and the Statute; two, there is a single legal system for the whole of Spain and in which the Tax Agency of Catalonia is integrated; and three, the Vice-President, Mr Junqueras, cannot prevent the fundamental right of access to the public service on an equal footing with all citizens; it cannot be prevented that any citizen has the right to object to entering the Tax Agency of Catalonia, as the Government and the groups supporting him wanted; it cannot be claimed that they can only do what certain officials of the Generalitat can do. You want to turn the Catalan Tax Agency into a private stop, reserved for independenceists, but the Guarantee Council has told you that you cannot do that. And now they amend themselves to continue trying, they pretend that instead of covering the positions of the Technical Centre of Tax Managers through a free and open opposition, their functions are performed by officials of the Generalitat Management Centre through a simple authorization of the director of the Tax Agency of Catalonia. Look, citizens deserve those who review their statements to know what they're doing and what it's about. And, therefore, they deserve those who have entered their jobs to have done so through free opposition, where on equal terms they have demonstrated their capacity and merit. You are willing to sacrifice the quality and effectiveness of tax services for your haste and your independence dream, and the citizens of Catalonia do not deserve it and should know it. The Council of State Guarantees has also drawn their colors for the absolute ignorance that makes of the norm..., of the system of sources and the division of competition. It is so gross – so gross – the breach and so obvious the competitive excess that shows the clear that we are faced with another provocation to the rule of law and a deception to the citizens. What else can be sought and claimed when it is obvious that the tax system must be unique, unified and coordinated? What else can be sought when it is obvious that only the State can dictate interpretative rules for assigned taxes? What else can be sought when the constitutional and statutory lace that this law must have is dispensed with? Ladies and gentlemen, this law aims to build a hyperstructure consisting of collegiate bodies, tax council, institute d'estudis, etc., which is frankly apparatusy and costly for a collection of own and assigned taxes which, after all, does not reach the 4,000_million_of_euro. I will tell you plainly: this in my land is called « having a lot of bread..., or « putting a lot of bread and little ham. From our parliamentary group we will not tire of saying that the citizens of Catalonia do not need an agency and tax legislation at the service of independence, but at the service of taxpayers. The citizens of Catalonia do not need a state tax structure, they already have it and it is called AEAT, State Tax Administration Agency. In Citizens we bet for a close collaboration and coordination of the Tax Agency of Catalonia with the state agency, and of this with the rest of the states, especially the European Union. It is therefore not a question of replacing state legislation and the tax agency of the State with Catalan legislation and the Catalan Tax Agency; it is a question of coordinating legislation, agencies and efforts to provide better service to citizens in a more effective and efficient manner. We agree on a resizing of the tax agency, for better management of own and assigned taxes and for more effective combating of fraud. But in reality you do not want that; you intend to supplant the state agency and create one of its so-called state structures. If they could do so, though fortunately they could not, they would do so even by losing efficiency and worsening management. Look, the only realistic approach is to advance fiscal integration between the State Tax Administration and the autonomous to achieve coordination, to take advantage of economies of scale and to make a more efficient and effective system. But, deputies of Junts pel Yes and the CUP, do not count on us to create their secessionist tax agency, which, uncoordinated by the state agency and the Europeans, would know nothing or could do with the defrauders who take their money to Andorra, or would be unable to charge an execution of a debt when the taxpayer has his assets in Aragon, for example. In Citizens we are not going to lose a minute, not a minute, in establishing a hacienda that puts the objective of secession ahead of the objective of better service and cooperation with the taxpayer. In Citizens we will always work for a tax system based on cooperation and trust in the citizen, which has as one of its pillars intelligent taxation and which, supported by new technologies, improves the services to the taxpayer, as well as the transparency and effectiveness of the tax administration. In Citizens we will work for a model based on the best international experiences and practices, such as Sweden, in the State Tax Administration and the Autonomous Communities. In Citizens we want a modern tax administration, where there is more transparency, more responsibility; a tax administration that encourages voluntary compliance with tax obligations and increases legal certainty. In short, in Citizens we want a tax administration for the benefit of all Catalans and Spanish, but not only for the benefit of separatists. I want to end by wishing all Members a good holiday, and for the separatist Members a very special wish: to relax, to make their haste appear, to know that the haste is not good, especially if it is like yours, to go nowhere. Thank you very much. And I'll see you soon. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.85.0	Thank you very much, honourable Member. Next, on behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Ms.Alícia Romero has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.86.0	Thank you, President. Bon dia, deputies and deputies. I can't say any vice president or counselors, because it seems that this important law doesn't interest people... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, I don't know where they are, sir... I don't know where they are. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Ah, all of them? [[Pause.]] All of it. It's got to be that, it's got to be all there. Well, then, all right. I hope they're costing the victims at a difficult time. In any case, today... – there are a few Members, too; I don't know if it's that everyone is there–, in any case, today it turned out that we approved an important law; a law, for us, misnamed the Catalonia tax code, a proposal of law that presented us... [[Widow's remorse.]] It didn't take me any time, did it? , Vice-President. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.87.0	Mrs Romero, I was right. It's already on.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.88.0	Could you please ask some Members to stop talking to me? Because I'm in the middle of something. Listen, I can make whatever complaints you want. If I'm wrong, I'll apologize. But please, stop talking to me, because I'm intervening. It's just that, in the end, in this Parliament, such strange things happen... really, huh? In Fi, the one who said...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.89.0	Congresswoman, I hope you don't freak out, huh? I can't admit that, can I? That strange things happen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.90.0	Well, I'm not saying that for you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.91.0	Things happen in all parliaments.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.92.0	Well, I'm not saying that for you. I was telling you what I was going through. Anyway, today it seems... [[Pause.]] I'm waiting for time. Today it seems that we are debating and voting, I suppose, what we say is that the wrong name is Catalonia's Tax Code, a proposal of law introduced to us by the parliamentary groups of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, and that we would like it before entering the debate, putting a little in context and making a little memory. Mirin, the Law 3/2015, of March 11, of fiscal and financial measures, approved, in its twenty-i-dosena provision, an element in which it was asked to approve a plate director of the Tax Administration of Catalonia. In five months, this board of directors had to be made. This board of directors was asked, therefore, that a possible assumption of new functions and tax competitions is prepared and that a tax proposal from Catalonia should be included. This provision, obviously, was, therefore, declared unconstitutional by the Constitutional Court and, therefore, without effect. He said: "A plan that is not simply aimed at restructuring or modernising the current tax administration in Catalonia, but precisely to provide this administration with all the means to assume and manage powers that this autonomous community does not have. After the elections of 2015 – because this was just before the elections – a resolution was adopted, the 1/XI of the Catalan Parliament, on the policy process in Catalonia as a result of the results of 27 September, results for which the majority did not..., it is said, it did not get more than 50_per_cent to make the supposed independence, as some supporters of independence do not only say but also said the President of the Generality. In this resolution it was said that in thirty days three laws of disconnection, which were the laws of the constituent process, of social security and that of the public record, were to be dealt with. It has also declared unconstitutional and null and void this resolution. And, thirdly, in the substance of the debate to the totality of this bill's proposal, presented for these two groups that I have already named, one of the speakers said: "We are talking about the ability to recapitulate our own taxes and also the willingness to equip us with tools to redefine them in all that is necessary because we obey the function and mandate that we assign them. The Catalonian Parliament considers it appropriate to start the process of dealing with the laws of the process as social security and public history, and this is the part of the way we jointly build. There are three chronological elements, three elements that obviously mark which is the law that we are debating and voting today. Given these antecedents that this proposal of the Law presented to us, we might think that it was inherited from those intentions, seen these elements; now, it is also true that there was a significant delay, because it is said that in thirty days they would present it and they have spent almost two years, and in these two years, a change of route, because it turns out that now we will make a reference, another reference, to know what the people of Catalonia want, but while we have already made structures of being without having listened to the people. All folded, very democratic. In short, it is also true that, despite this, the proposing parliamentary groups have also said on various occasions that what we are debating and voting today is a purely autonomous proposal, that they are strictly seeking to develop the Statute of Autonomy and that, therefore, they cannot be concerned; in fact, without mentioning the Statute of Autonomy, and therefore to generate this certain ambiguity in the public political discourse that both groups make. So, as I said, despite the suspicions that we may have, the origins of this proposal and the siren songs, and above all the contradictions that these two parliamentary groups have clearly presented to us – which also shows, for another group, very little courage on their part – the Socialist Group studied the proposal of the law, gave recollection to the beginning of the parliamentary process and, therefore, we have been working. You will say: "Why? So, miri, we're going to analyze it. Do we need a tax code for Catalonia? So, honestly, we don't think so. To modify the tax agency, to create new tax instruments, we believe that it is not a tax code. We believe that it's a very adventurous thing that only shows that you need, therefore, to strengthen your willingness to go ahead with the process. But I say to them: to build a new country, if that's what you want – that I don't share it –, you just have to do things right and do them better than we did them. If not, honestly, who did you hear, all that you want to do? And it doesn't seem like that's too much to believe. The second serious question: do we need a tax law on Catalonia? So, yes, it's possible. In this sense, we might agree. And why? Home, then, according to our parent, so that we can fully develop the powers that are attached to us by the Constitution and above all by the Statute, and that I must say that the government of the best and the government of disconnection have not developed in these seven years. We've been down for seven years and now we're correcting it, with presses, as always, we're going to develop everything that allows us to the Statue, and it seems more, for which I'll also explain later. Therefore, it did have a tax law or a tax law of Catalonia that you developed this agency, the abilities that our Statute gives us. The Socialist Group therefore took part in the debate – said Mrs Senserrich – and worked and entered two issues, namely, a number of important and considerable ones. Because, if there is one thing that is unquestionable, I believe, is that the Socialist Group, and the Socialist Party in concrete, normally works to help build a country, to add and to try to improve the conditions of our citizens. They proved it yesterday with the Trade Law, the Climate Change Law, and we also wanted to do it in this Tax Code Law. We cannot say, for this reason, the same of other groups, honestly; other groups that did not participate in the posence, other groups that did not do a single thing, other groups that did not want to debate, that did not want to reflect, that did not want to be there to sum up and to build. Now yes; to profit from the political conflict, therefore, they are. The views of the Socialist Group, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the two-pointers, the The first was to increase or generate a legal security that we believed did not exist in this Law of the Tax Code, a legal security that would give the citizen beyond the conflict of power and institutional conflict. The second was to strengthen the tax agency as an instrument of advice and information to the citizen, from proximity and decentralisation, bearing in mind that the agency will internalize all processes in relation to the management of the transferred taxes, which until now the liquidating offices. And, thirdly, to fight against a certain interference that we see with the creation of fiscal intermediaries and the composition of the Fiscal Council, where we believe that these figures should not be..., or, in any case, should be more opposed to other profiles. So I'm going into the three-way explanation. For what it does to legal certainty, look, one of the elements that for us the most grinyola in the whole law, obviously, is this, and it's the motive for which we obviously, therefore, have presented..., we asked the Council for Statutory Guarantees, because you make it clear to us if that was the case. In many cases, throughout the legal text, reference is made not only to the Constitution but also to the Statute, but, in change, it is about the constitutionality block, which we don't know much about. It seems, in the end, as constantly happens to you, that in the morning they want to disconnect, in the late hours they want to obey, and the law does not cease to be an absolute confusion towards the citizen, who does not know who will attend to his hour of paying his tax obligations, in such a key element for the citizen. And I will set an example of confusion, which is this announcement made by the government that it will be possible to pay state taxes through the tax agency, as if now competition was ours. That is to say, the confusion that you are making on this subject is constant, and I need to clarify it so as not to confuse the citizens. Look, I'm just going to quote a few sentences from the report by the Board of State Guarantees giving us reason, for one thing, for the lack of legal certainty of this law. Says: "The State holds the original power to establish taxes, there can be no doubt that the determination of the sources of the right in this sector of the order corresponds exclusively to the State. He said: "It happens, however, that, as we have already advanced, Article 111-4 is not limited to literally projecting in the Tax Code the font system provided for in the General Tax Law, but instead, like the earlier constitutionality block, of substantively competitive significance, which can be frequent in the legal and even political discourse, but is completely inappropriate of a legal norm. I would say to the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes, "Do you have lawyers? And to the government: "They looked at each other well, did they? Because, of course, the State Guarantee Board in this sense is very strong. Look, we're making a law, not a political speech, not a book. A law is a rule; a law regulates, and it must be exquisite with language and text. In any case, in your case or not, of legal advisers, which I suppose they have, and in this case they must not have reviewed this proposal of law, the Board of Guarantees has been very clear. The Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, which together we have made subsequent statements, we have tried to resolve, obviously, this element of the fonts of the right incorporating a theme that explains it. It seems that you, therefore, do not do the same, do not follow the recommendations of the Statutory Guarantee Board, and what they do is delete the article from the fonts of the right, as if these privates are already completing the rule. So, look, it's funny, honestly, that you end up doing the same thing as the People's Party. I don't know if they've looked at it, but the People's Party does exactly the same as you do, which is to delete the article from the right fonts. It must be that you agree a lot in tax matters, or it must be, the CUP and the CUP, that the extreme points are being touched. The case is that the Council of State Guarantees is very clear: it is not legally safe enough to touch some things, that we, from the Socialist Group and the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, we have tried to improve. The second element in relation to our discussions was to strengthen the tax agency. We asked for more dependence on the government, which is more aligned with its objectives, a program contract to establish the relationship, more role of the unions... Miri, a very small, simple example, « silly, if they want: training plan; we asked that the training plan of the workers is done together with the same workers, so who better knows which training they need. Ah, no, so that's not what they let us do; they put it with the information of the workers. Home, thank you; yes, the web will also be able to look at it. I, frankly, look, from Convergence or the PDECAT, could imagine it; from Esquerra, I think that, at these heights of the film, too; but from the CUP, frankly, no. I sincerely believe – and to Mrs. Regant I have once said – that the process has taken away everything and that they have forgotten some principles in this law. And it's hard for me, because in the debate we can agree, but then, at the time of writing it and seeing it materialized, no. In relation to workers and access to public office, we proposed to remove some additional provisions that spoke about the exclusivity of access to public office in some places of work only for the generality to function. The Constitutional Court has already annulled this, but it is the same here as they are coughed up saying, "Let's go back there, see if that's the case. And the Board of State Guarantees says, escort, that access to public office must respect the principle of equality and, therefore, that must be so. So, all right, we eliminate it, in the case of the State Guarantee Board, as we have done with the initial exams. And what are you doing? Surprisingly, huh? Because they have the ability, at least to me, to surprise me... They set a trap, and they say that, temporarily, until 2024 – finally, we'll see where we're all folded – they enable the General Administration management units to do the functions of the Technical Tax Manager units. Man! , it's mind-blowing, honestly. It is very surprising the ability of you to cheat on the lonely. It's true that only with a few things; with others I suppose they don't dare, in the case of inspectors, etc., right? But it's really surprising the ability you have to have this innovative element. The other element that we criticise very much, in the field of tax agency, is that we believe a lack of advice that we will give from the agency. You create the figure or give it much precedence to the figure of the tax advisor because it is the person who advises the city. In fact, they have forced us to remove or not accept the message because the city's agency, with this term. I suppose what you want is that now, from now on, the tax advisors are doing it, privatizing this clear service of the Tax Administration. In fact, when one looks at the origins and still goes further, so you see that this figure of the fiscal intermediaries creates it a report of Durán-Sindreu, which entrusts him with Artur Mas and Joan Iglesias. I mean, anyway, a lot of anti-capitalist this one doesn't seem to be; rather the contrary: a liberal law marked by the principles of Artur Mas. And now, here, the tax council; they create a tax council, which could... legitimately, in which we could agree, but they incorporate these intermediaries, these tax advisors. We think it's making the wolf keep the sheep. And besides, they don't let us incorporate other components like economic social agents, who think they'd have all the paper and sense that they were here. In the ho they can share. We don't understand how some of the groups that subscribe to this proposal share it, as is the case with the UPC, and I've said it many times to Mrs. Reguant, the process takes everything away. I know it's hard, 'cause we think this tax council isn't exactly what it should be. In short, a code that we believe is not coded; a law that claims one thing, but it shows another, that it is not brave, that privatizes the services of the Administration, that incorporates a figure of tax advisors in tasks that we say are not close to them and that has more liberal law than anti-capitalist law. Finally, I, only to finish, President, say that we have tried to do everything that has been at our hands, that it has been a pleasure to work with the deputies, with Angels Castells, with whom we have shared ideology, let us say it, and princes, also with Eulàlia Reguant, that it has also been a pleasure to know and work with her, and especially the Maria Senserrich. You know, Maria, it's a pleasure to work with you; I think you're a great congresswoman, you do the very easy work we're doing on the other side, and I know yours hasn't been easy, you haven't been more comfortable with it, but I think you've gone out with the job, you've been straightened out, organized. You have to say that I, of all the pieces of law that I have been, that there are a few, this has been the best, although we have not been able to pass a law, which is what I would have liked. Anyway, thanks to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.93.0	Mrs. Romero, it's been a long time, hasn't it?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.94.0	...the deputies. Good morning.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.95.0	I know. Thank you. [[Greetings.]] Next, the words of Mrs Àngels Martínez, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.96.0	Good morning. They'll let me, before we start, two mentions. The first, regretting the accident this morning, and especially because many of these accidents are easily avoidable and are often due to conditions... I don't want to advance much less events, but to work conditions that are really hard, and attach themselves to work accidents, which, unfortunately, are growing in our country and sometimes affect the users of the services, in this case, public ones. And second, it's the day... – which, moreover, can only be done in this intervention – today is World Hepatitis Day C. And I mention it in this Parliament because one of the demands that precisely affected people make, as you know, is to be able to have access to the generics, and they are deprived, and in many cases they have to be able to have access to the non-generic medication when they have reached a high degree of progress of the malalty because there is, they say, not enough funding for the public hysenda to pay for the medication for everyone. It was also empty, and it seemed to me that on a subject that, even if it was not, so, much more globally, it was taxing, it was to be present, and remember this World Hepatitis C Day. And one time I said that, it's my turn to naturally gratify the work that has been done on the ponència. To thank Mary – to Mary Senserrich –, to Eulàlia, to Alicia, very much, for the help she has given us; to the illiterate, she also had a patience..., and it was especially enriching her way of helping us. But I'm also making a complaint. I think– well, we think– that this is such an important issue that we should regret that there was no pre-emptive debate, that we should have impregnated all and each of the facets of this code: what taxation we want for Catalonia and what instruments are, therefore, more adequate, whether or not they are in this code, that they should strengthen fairness and a fairer distribution, so that they make the equal opportunity possible; a taxation that, moreover, was also environmental, and a taxation that was held in front of genera biaxes. This debate, this debate, this deepening of these ideas has not been given and, then, it gives me the impression that it does – do not go into it – that, as much as we approve of this code, in this country and with these new instruments will continue to pass what is happening now, to what any Democrat says: "No, no, but it is clear that he has to pay more taxes who have more. Yeah, okay, he has to pay more taxes than he has, but that's not what happens – that's not what happens – and with these instruments that are not approved now – nor will it – unfortunately, nor will it happen. I'm afraid I've got a few questions. Look, from the start I would say that this code has an origin that comes together..., and I wouldn't want to joke about it today, but finally, it reminds us of Florenci's views, that sometimes it's better to reject the benefits of inventory, to think that we could have done all these thoughts and talked about these media and these instruments again. Because if Mrs. Romero said that she had presented the noise and the noise or more – she did not say how many they had accepted it – we, modestly, presented more or less the half of it, but they did not accept any of it. And I mean they didn't accept one of the other things because they did accept words and concepts that I'm going to say at some point. But, of course, one of the points, one of the doubts that I see is whether... – which I still believe – it is that if the issue of fiscal choice, for example, which has been accepted, can really be fought and restrained by the instruments that have been accepted. And finally there's a theme that's cool, that's bottom line, that's the focus of the relationship between the tax system and the taxpayers. That is to say, there were two – and he saw the pose – positions completely opposed. One, which was the original question of wanting to be a prosecutor friendly, is to say, it is from where the contributor has a climate of satisfaction and is well found with the tax system, therefore, which contributes, and the other, as well as some of the techniques that came to us, where they say: "No, no, it is proven and, moreover, it has not only been studied by the practitioners, that when there is a contribution, a sufficient compliment in the tax system, in the tax system, is when there are public services, good and public services enough to enable people to be content and satisfied and that it is worth paying taxes. It is to say, in short, that I have been given the impression sometimes that it is ugly, and more when we were, as Mrs. Senserrich said very well, four women from there, it is that they have perhaps taken us for a sewing workshop and have given us a Mexican bar of these enormous ones that do not pass through the door, that come or come to the Rambles and that lay, from all angles, under the Barcelona record, and more so under the'made in Taiwan', and that they have said to us: "Well, from this Mexican bar try to make a bar or try to make it, perhaps more agree with the mentality of the Lord Counselor, a frigi cap. No, no, There's not a bar or a frigid hat out, it's still a species of strange thing going between a culture that's not ours and some results that frankly don't satisfy me. We understand that sovereignty does not reside only in speeches, it does not reside in an absolute way in speeches and magnificent full routes, but it must be sustained every day in the matter of taxation. And that the configuration of various organizations, for example, the Institute of Tax Studies, in which I believe that all four people that we were going to be, ladies, that we were going to be on the stand, we were going to be very excited about this institute, did not just get over..., among other things because when we were going to say: "This institute of study should be basically concrete in inequalities and it should be a species of observer, of signal marker, of seeing as Gini's index is deviated, as Gini's index each time tends more to inequalities, as, on the other hand, is not corrected, for example, territorial inequalities. So, it was answered, with much discretion, but it was answered that as the Institute of Fiscal Studies was made, formed by great specialists, academics, etc., on the subject, they would not take advantage of what they say they should do. How can they not take what they have to do, if the Parliament tells them so? And of course, it costs me a lot of times to hear. And also one of the remaining doubts is the degree between this attempt to agree on everything, especially through the Tax Code, and the need to control fraud, evasion and tax evasion. And I tell them why: because when we want to import certain mechanisms here we need to know who we are, where we are, where we live, what judgments are being seen, and know that this is not Borgen. Borgen is seen on television. Norway and Denmark's tax culture is on television: it is not exactly among us. As the professor used to say with Mr. Bel: we always end up having a..., we seem to be paying at the level of Sweden, but we have some services that remind us more of Morocco. Except for the toilet, sometimes this happens. Well, therefore, this new impetus in the development of the tax agency we believe must also be heard or should also be heard in this sense of improving redistribution, of making fully satisfactory and sufficient financing of public services, but we doubt it, for the very composition of the tax council. And tell them what it would be like. Well, you can find it, but it would define, the tax council, as a body of legal personality with the capacity to act on such fundamental aspects as the better quality of the standards that must regulate taxation, disseminate results achieved, actively participate in the definition of strategies – also those that must be applied to reduce tax fraud – and promote good practices. And it seems to me, sometimes, that I don't know if the tax council will actually do this or what is being done – and this has already started to say a little bit about Alicia – it's about making a market reserve, because one of the items in which Catalonia Yes it is possible..., in which I personally put special emphasis on it, which is to say: "Well, let's say it the way it is – and let's let it go so that it can help – but it's clear that the taxpayer's relationship or contribution to the tax agency won't necessarily take place through private intermediaries, either. And of course, that's not what you can get in your doubts about respect. I remember the words of Xavi Casanovas, of the Platform for a Fair, Environmental and Solidary Taxation, in which he said that they in principle had nothing against the collaboration between the private and public sectors, but that, in change, they did have to object when the public sector became subsidiary of the private sector, as it went, or as it went or as it went with this tax council. And, besides, it ended up saying, and it couldn't be any other way, when the writing of the subject deals with companies like PricewaterhouseCoopers, etc. And also from Gestha we are told that, man, there was a good possibility for this code, and it was that, really, if it was working together, it could save exactly who the tax gap is, to what extent it is possible..., to open up more possibilities to detect the fraud. But also at this point it has to be recognized that tradition and culture is not exactly where these bodies like Austràlia are deployed, which I don't know how it is, but yes, Sweden, which I think is not the case. So it is not, I think, to sacrifice this principle of neutrality that should be held in taxation in favour of private intermediaries, and I think it is; that one thing is interpretation and aid in understanding, if it is to be, and the other thing is to bring the professional sector dedicated to tax advice to a certain clientele to create a cordial agreement that goes against the hope that it is backward in our laws, that each person has the obligation to contribute and the old administration to fight against any mechanism of tax evasion or avoidance. We do not believe that the objective of the Fiscal Council is to reduce conflict. We think that the Fiscal Council has come to guard the henhouse, and in this sense we also think that the Administration must have much more resources than it needs to be able to develop the social policies that fall and need from the fiscal point of view more actively. In this context, we think that the Fiscal Council and its strategy cannot help to develop it and will not help in any way, not only that there is a progressive fiscal redistribution, medium-environmentally fairer and unbelievably generous, but also in favour of people with fewer resources. For us, fighting against equal opportunities and tax fraud is fundamental, and because all the people who need drugs and the necessary health care, education or whatever they have. We really think these instruments will help. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.97.0	Thank you, Mrs. Martinez. The words "Mr. Santi Rodríguez", of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to say a very special thank you to Mr Nuet – I don't know if he is – after the speech we heard a few minutes ago about this same Faristol, to allow us to speak and to allow us to reflect 350,000 Catalans who, according to him, should not have rights. So, I repeat this very special thank you and that what we have heard today I think it puts a lot in evidence which is the concept of democracy that Mr Nuet has, which I assure you is extraordinarily different from what we may have from other Catalans. We come to expose our position with regard to this proposed law on the Tax Code. We'll do something that's not usual, that's to do rapporteurs, too. I do not want to usurp the function of Mrs Senserrich, who has made her report since she was appointed rapporteur of the petition, but I believe that this report must be completed with the full account of the story she brings us in this proposed law of the Tax Code. Mrs Romero has already done it synthetically, but they will allow me to complete it too, because there has been some step that Mrs Romero has not come to her head or she has not expressed or jumped, and I think that she is extraordinarily uplifting. And I'll pay you back, not in 2015 – I'll do it again – but I'll pay you back in 2013. What happens in 2013? So, it turns out that there is a council member of the national transition who prepares reports and that, between these reports, number 2 refers to the design of the independent tax administration of Catalonia. And I don't quote it because yes, I quote precisely from this report of the Council Counsellor for the National Transition because, if you look at each other, you see that it says exactly what is then translated into the Tax Code Law Proposal that we are debating today. Possibly, when someone referred to the sources of the Catalan tax law, he could not cite the reports of the Adviser to the National Transition, but perhaps indirectly there should be a reference. Indeed, after December 2013, we move on to the March of 2015, when the law accompanying the assumptions appears an additional provision, this, the twenty-i-dosena, which is the object of appeals to the Constitutional Court, which instructs the Government to prepare a board of directors of the Tax Administration – and I add it to the independent Catalonia, its independent Catalonia. It is, of course, annulled by the Constitutional Court in July 2016. Let's move on to November 2015 – Mrs Romero has also mentioned this – in Resolution 1/XI of this Parliament, where her 5th departure, therefore, says to initiate the processing of what has been called ‘the laws of disconnection, among them that of public history, from which without any doubt this Tax Code is an important substantial part. Resolution 1/XI, of November 2015, annulled the 1st of September of the same 2015 by judgment of the Constitutional Court. Let's move on to February-March 2016, where we unilaterally create joint positions; believe, the two major groups and with the opposition of the four groups that do not form part of the independent majority of the Parliament, create a joint position that they must want to use as an alibi to say that these legislative proposals are a thing of the whole Parliament, when in reality it is nothing more than a proposal on the part of the Parliament, and on the part of the independentist of the Parliament. The creation of this joint stand was also annulled by the Constitutional Court on September 2016, but more so with the concrete expression that they had violated, with the creation of this joint stand, the rights of the groups in this Parliament that obviously do not share the need to make a joint stand. In this particular report, which, therefore, was omitted, on October 2016, the groups that give support to the Government – that is, the CUP and Juntes for the Yes – present the proposed tax code law dient, protesting, expressing: « Listen to me, this is the proposal of the law fruit of the joint ponència. But, as usual, from what they say to the one they do... there is absolutely nothing to see, and what they said was the result of the joint ponència turns out that they do not materialize it as the result of the joint ponència, but that they make it serve a law proposal at the initiative of two parliamentary groups, that it is as legitimate as it is in any other way, and that even legitimate is the discrepancy. But I believe that this does make clear what the basis is, which is the whole process, which has a common denominator, which is the lie and which is the deception. And that's not a very clear example. As I said, the law is mimetic, exactly – change some of the words of the organizations that believe with this very law – to the very same thing that the Advisor Council designed for the National Transition. And, therefore, our group, seen these precedents, did not want to participate in the ponència that was to work on this bill's proposal. And we didn't want to do it because we understood that it was a law that was part of its political strategy, part of its political relationship, part of its objective of bringing Catalonia to this separation; we didn't want to collaborate. Because, in addition, we should have understood that what has happened to other parliamentary groups has passed them, so that they present papers, try to contribute, try to improve the law, and they are rejected all on the ground, because the important thing is not that they say the papers presented by parliamentary groups, but that for some it is that important that they are the parliamentary groups that present the papers. That said, they will allow me to ask myself, in a rhetorical way – not because they answer me, because the answer we already know –.... is that when some people talk about the right to decide I don't know what they're talking about, because some people decide it before they make references, before they make plebiscite choices... They fix themselves if they have that law that we're talking about today is a law that already has its origin in September 2013, and it has implemented a little enough. [[Widow's remorse.]] If I may..., the sound behind the ear distracts my concentration.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.99.0	Excuse me, Congressman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.100.0	Thank you, President. These are the fundamental arguments of the report, huh? And it's the steps the rapporteur has taken, because she doesn't match it – I get it, huh? – it corresponds to quote them. But, besides, let me also talk to you about what the law says and the opinion we have about it, about the same law, right? It is a law that calls for an excessive tax administration, with a whole bunch of bodies, not just..., or so, the tax agency, the Board of Tributes as well as the Economic and Administrative Court, the Tax Council, the research institute, the same Directorate General of Tributes, that some are already there and function in a certain way, but well, what ends up is to systematize and, from our point of view, to create an excessive tax system by, one, the competitions there are; two, by the taxes they manage... And so, as far as it's too much, it's easy to venture – and we haven't talked about assumptions and when we've talked about tax agency assumptions – that more will be inefficient, because, like, it's a bigger tool than it really needs to manage what to manage, sure it'll end up being an inefficient tool. But, besides, it's a law that ignores the fonts of the right. Not all of them, huh? because, as I said, it refers to some right-wing sources, in principle, non-existent, and that the Board of State Guarantees already says to them: "Listen to me, this is not possible, or" is not viable, is it not? But, of course, he doesn't talk about the Constitution, the Statute, or the Spanish tax law. Not directly speaking, because indirectly what this Tax Code Law does is to translate into Catalan the same tax principles that are already established in Spanish tax legislation, using a legal technique that is to mimic aspects that are already in other legislation and that, more than clarifying absolutely anything, to which it can contribute is to confuse the people who are subject to this legislation. Therefore, we also highlight this aspect. It is also unknown – and this is a tax code law – the different type of taxes that we have at this time in Catalonia, and that they are not few, but they are like at least four, varied and with applications, many times, with shared regulations with the State. But, of course, like here, what they claim is to disconnect from everything and ignore absolutely everything that refers to Spain, so there is no reference. Well, October 2nd will continue to have good taxes in Catalonia, partially yielded taxes, totally yielded taxes and taxes from the State. Finally, it is a law that you say – and it is its main argument, which is expressed especially in the preamble, with strong emphasis in the preamble – that what it claims is to give legal certainty, when in reality everything it does is all the contrary. I believe that the Council of State Guarantees serves an expression in the sense that this law is creating confusion in its interpretation. That is to say, all contrary to what is said to be their object – to generate legal certainty – this law is precisely the opposite. Finally, I think the surest way to try to define this law that you approve of a part of the hemicicle today is that this isn't a law; this that you approve today is a political speech, but this can't be a law. I believe that with the arguments that you have heard me have already been made to the idea of what is and what will be the position of our group in voting for this proposal of the law. Thank you, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Then there is the word, in the name of the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed, Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.102.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. There's no surprise in the speeches for now, and I don't think there'll be any surprises now, do you? But I did, in some of the things that have been said, or I wanted to remember a little something that was the object. I believe that the Socialist Party Member has recovered some of my words. And I would say that apart from saying this, we said that the object of the law ended up being more limited than we would like to ourselves..., and we said it here itself, not just outside, on the road, but it ended up developing skills that had never developed since 2007, that created some new bodies, some that are obviously questionable, or that are matizable, better or adaptable, and others that we believe are a certain certainty and that, moreover, some of the fellows have said it and some of the fellows that I believe that, with at least, Catalonia Yes, it is possible, Socialist Party and we ourselves, listen more, as can be representatives of the Platform for a Fair Prosecutor or representatives of the Syndicate Management. In the background, it was trying to establish the normal framework around which the Catalan heritage is to be regulated – the Catalan heritage, in the current framework, assuming that it is a _frame to overcome and that we expect to overcome in short, some as at least –; where do we define the structure or the carcass, right? , which is the one that should gather all the follow-up of laws and fiscal measures to develop later, this, moreover, also, in the words of Xavier Casanovas, of the Fair Taxation Platform, which said it the day it appeared. And what's one of the uncertainties...? And I don't think anyone has yet put it on the table, and I think I can claim it as one of the positive elements, that it's the creation of the Institute of Fiscal Studies, as an organization that, for a lot of people, I think, is very important, for the study and deepening of possibilities and limitations in fiscal matters that we have and will have in a global world, where we need to know deeply what's going on outside and what we can do, starting from the idea that at these times we are experiencing an excessive tax dumping – or simply being a tax dumping already is attacked in itself – between different countries, that makes us, for example, like the Spanish State, where we give away the money, if we are in the same? , EUR 20,000_million per sub-unit, half, from which it was allocated in 2007. And this has to be seen, too, with this tax dumping existing in the European Union, and not just in the European Union. That's why, isn't it? , a tax institute that can help or needs to work to implement policies that actually vacate to avoid fraud, elusion, dumping, that vacate to improve the redistribution of the tax system, with a view to genera, taking into account the environmental impact, however, it does remain, in a certain way, to the law, taking into account that taxation can never be a means of attracting foreign investment, and that also remains clear, because it ends up generating dynamics of..., or still, career dynamics towards the precipice, direct, right? And that's what's there. I, for that matter, didn't I? , an institute of tax studies that we need to be able to implement from now on, that we need to work because instead of subcontracting the tax gap study, the face of this public body. We have improved, because yes, this year we are studying the tax gap, but it turns out that subcontracting to a foundation where the bosses end up being the first to look for a way to avoid tax; therefore, a little confusion. But well, from here we can start working. But beyond that..., and Mrs Romero refers to the 2015 debate, where she was and I wasn't, but on the one hand, in the participation that we did on the modification of the Tax Agency Law, we are already talking about state structures, they understand that it's not just about the Catalan history, but there are many more state structures that we should be discussing. But in this case, we had a few reptes, a few reptes that we thought were going to cling to full economic sovereignty and that today we are still a long way away, aren't we? At that time – and it doesn't differ in mass 2015 of 2017 – we argued that the Generalitat only had and has powers to manage the taxes it has created, that is to say, the proper tax names, and those that it has entrusted to it or that it gives way to the Spanish State. But, of the taxes that are propitious, many, in fact, are charged the Spanish State; between the canon and many others, we have seen how the Spanish State has made the banner of the permanent denial of the sovereignty of this people over its future and its destiny, carrying taxes. But more than that, right? , in these skills you have, taxes sold to the State are used to being low level recaptors. It may be recalled that they are also low-level recaptator because there are those who have systematically refused to make a tax reform where these divestments, such as those of assets, improve recaptancy in those margins that we have so far had as the Generality, because it is then who manages part of these entries that has refused to increase the recaptancy, denying to increase the tax on assets, inheritances, transfers of assets, etc., right? That there was also a clear will to limit ourselves here because we did not want to address this. Therefore, in the first X-ray, in this case, in which you have to see competitions, we see that we are far from full economic sovereignty and a real fiscal democracy. In fact, it is all right now that, in this process of incorporating the task done by the liquidating offices, we can begin as a minimum to recapitulate or the agency will begin to directly recapitulate the inheritance tax and capital transfers, which until now, moreover, was not directly recapitulated and did so by means of intermediaries that, moreover, no? They were outsourced. And in this sense we have always said that we celebrated that at least at some point and at some point this government internalized or started to really strengthen the public sector, also in this sense. So, until now, in the background, the Catalan tax agency is very little, to the extreme that it does not even exercise the powers recognized by the state's legality, this legality that we have to celebrate as much or pose so much in the center, but that it does not allow things afterwards. Therefore, this is the scenario from which we took part at the beginning of the legislature, which was a starting point for us to start building a key structure to build a new democratic state, a public service of quality or a new common institution as well as taxation to be able to govern and self-determine us and to be able to manage the taxes we pay among all of us. And two years ago we were, as a minimum, four goals, with the logic of preparation and laying the solid foundations and democratic foundations of this future that will come and come in short. One, to be able to collect all the taxes that Catalans and Catalans pay; here we have advanced a little. After, then, we have or have all the necessary staff; we take a little step to the trompics, but we go taking steps and with this law that we will approve today, we advance a little more, despite the fact that there is someone who disagrees with this. A third, which is controversial and has been controversial throughout the legislature, a hundred of the taxpayers, because, in order to govern ourselves, in order to be able to recapitulate and redistribute Catalan and Catalan taxes, is necessary, was and is an urgent and necessary task to create a basis of taxpayer data that allows effective management of the obligations and fiscal commitments of each of us. That's what we said here on June 2015 and we're still saying it and defending it. And we said a fourth, a fourth repte, a fourth objective, that was necessary and that we believe to be far away and that someone might think that he does not have to see with a tax code or with a history, but there is a lot to see, that it is the creation of the Catalan central bank and a public bank, key fish for two reasons: because it ends up being fundamental in order to be able to centralize the tax payments of the taxpayers to have a public bank, a tool, in this sense, public, and it is also fundamental in order to be able to issue public debt and not depend on or not to pass permits of other public debt destined to cover temporarily the difference between the recovery of what would be obtained under normal conditions. And here, in this quarter point, the Catalan central bank and the public bank, the last legislature was approved, this also approved, the adaptation and approval of the ICF to obtain the bank file. Years ago it was approved, this is July 2017, and, after asking parliamentary questions, we still don't get the answer from where we are. It is necessary to have a public bank, it is necessary to have a public bank now, but it is necessary to have a public bank when we follow the republic; it is necessary to have a Catalan central bank when we follow the republic, and, beyond an interview with Mr. Guillem López Casasnovas in Vilaweb where I said that I had already seen the bill of creation of the Catalan central bank, and no one else has seen it here, it would be good to know if we have all these tools. And in this Parliament we have tried to make a debate about public banking, a debate where few people have participated, where many of the representatives that the parliamentary groups have proposed have not come because they have not wanted and that ultimately remained in some conclusions that we have only presented the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes and some others of the CUP - Constituent Creed. We understand that either everyone agrees with Junts' findings for the Yes or that the public bank does not interest them. If you agree with the conclusions of the CUP - Call Constituent, tomorrow we begin the revolution, no problem. But, finally, we also think that we should reflect on this idea of disconnection laws, because, certainly, I've already told the beginning, this law is a little short, it's only left in the carcass, and for months there has been a few disconnection laws that have a magical relationship and maybe it's not so much. And, in this sense, it would also be good if we explained things as we are. We, from the first moment on, heard that there was a full road to which we added, despite the fact that at some points we didn't just see it the same way. The time has passed, we have a law or a tax code that frames the carcass, but that does not address that absolutely necessary debate, I need it that we have and that we have to start, if not now, like very late October 2, all that would be better if we started it already, from now on, or had started it a year and a half ago, which was what would have been desirable. It's about the debate about the model, the debate that will let us know if what we approve today is or is not. It is the debate about this tax model, which we believe must be a much more innovative model, under a new social and economic paradigm and under a new tax pedagogy, because we believe that taxes are to be paid, and that taxes..., or because of the taxes on people's living conditions; on public health, public education, benefits; on living conditions and the ability to keep lives worthy or not. And, therefore, this debate is absolutely essential. I call a new model with a real redistributive anime, with a real progressive scale, not like now; a scale that is..., or a fiscal model that is much more direct and that is much more just, if we understand that this one we have now is just. Because in the background the debate that is raised in this country respects how democracy will be for the generations that will also come to talk about the two great contradictions that we are currently living, two great fundamental contradictions, and it will have to solve them: one, how to govern and self-governance our people, and another, how to redistribute wealth, putting people at the center, starting from the idea that at these times twenty-four people accumulate, in wealth, all the presupposition of the Generality of Catalonia. So it's obvious that we have a redistribution problem. And I'll end up just laying on the table that, curiously, and to break some things down, in this ponència, economic ponència, ponència that I had to see with economic questions, we were all women. Perhaps so, although we are not voting for the same now, it has been easier to work and reach agreements and disagreements in a word, in an agreed way and understand the differences in each of them. Four gifts in one piece: we should do no more of these. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.103.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. The words of Mrs Maria Senserrich, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.104.0	Thank you, President. Vice-President, Members, Members, as I said before, to the beginning, today we start the last parliamentary process, despite the fact that the weights to some – despite the weights to some – and we will approve the Tax Code. Approval of the code we have the foundations of a state structure – yes, they have felt it well: the foundations of a state structure – and today we have the names and surnames of the organizations that have to set up what the Tax Administration is. A tax administration that is the indispensable instrument because the tax system works well, is the first piece we need. And yes, the tax system is what is known as a state structure. Because now I'll tell you a little secret, and it's that in Catalonia, of history, we already have one. I don't know if I know, or some wouldn't know. What's going on is that we want to manage it, obviously; we don't have to, that's why. Why do we want to do this? So, because we want to be able to guarantee the public services that the citizens of Catalonia deserve, you serve quality public services, to be able to meet the basic needs of the most vulnerable people, and because we want a country that, yes, generates wealth in order to be able to redistribute it. That's why we want a Catalan heritage that we can manage from Catalonia. And that's what makes a normal country. Because we are now subject to a Spanish government threatening us via FLA, it attacks the basic services of the citizens of Catalonia, whether or not you are independent – because when you talk about this they also attack you – and in a bold way it plays with the money of the citizens. And so these people fill their mouths and say they protect our money. They're the ones who pay the political police, they're the ones who rent planes to Switzerland to get false evidence to pursue policies for their ideology. These are the ones who manage our money. We are not complicit in a Spanish government that believes that the rule of law and democracy are prohibitions, keystrokes and persecution of those we think are different. We believe in people, think what they think. Otherwise, Mirin Junts for the Yes. Together for Yes we think differently many times, yes, and we don't, but we have a common goal, and it's that we're serving the people. And a town that said enough. Because we, the deputies of Junts for the Yes, are a great instrument for the Catalans, who want democracy, who want a state of law, who want justice of truth. And yes, today we lay the foundations of a state structure. Because we believe that the tax system is serving the citizens, not the keychains. Because this tax system must govern the assumptions that must guarantee the services that a state must provide. Why Together for Yes we want a tax system where it contributes to the center of everything: trust, cooperation, simplification, accompanying the tax system, and in concrete terms its organizations, it is an essential fact to have a modern society, fair, open, advanced and with opportunities. Because, while the organizational model for some is a system designed and directed towards the same system, with difficult lack of control, with lack of follow-up and analysis, we want an organizational model, and planting, which goes beyond "one, large and free; yes, it goes beyond "one, large and free. Because the model we are planting is a model that puts the person, as I said, at the center of the system and in line with what the Government of the Generality is already doing with the new information system; that, I recall, some, less than fifteen days ago, put in doubt an information system at the center of the person, who you serve to the citizens. It's just that they may not be clear that taxes are in the service of citizens, and the tax system must be in the service of citizens. And with the Law of the Tax Code that we will approve and the work of the Generality we will work to have all the best instruments. The law we pass today, as you know, is a tax code format. None of them did, but I think it's very valuable why we do it this way and what is the difference in model they have in the Spanish government. Why do we do this with a code format, like the Civil Code, that we are already used to in Catalonia? So, because it allows us to strengthen legal certainty, to have regulatory coherence, strict order and systematization of the tax law, and it allows us to be open and adaptable; it maximizes transparency and simplicity. This means an orderly, understanding and up-to-date legislation; it goes, equal, equal, that what they have to the Spanish government, which is complex, beige, difficult to know what is there. With this format of codes we facilitate understanding and accessibility to the tax law. It is a clear, clear example of what we do for people. Now, to those who have put it in doubt – because it has put itself in doubt this way to legislate – it may already be good for them that there are complex norms, that the citizens do not have access or that, if they have access to it, they have many, many doubts. Because when some people fill their mouths with transparency they see that the first transparency is to legislate in an understandable and accessible way; it is the first. So we have to understand that what we approve here in Parliament, and all parliaments, is what the citizens will have to complete. And that's why we can't legislate the scenario of reality. That is why the creation of the Tax Council, yes, and the creation of the Tax Research Institute and Tax Studies, too, is essential. A tax council that is a consulting and advisory body. And since the first moment this has been; not a single comma has been changed from this part of the text. A fiscal council that its president we triarem here to Parliament; the Parliament, the representatives of the people. A fiscal council that will be composed of six voices designated by the Government, a government that sorts the Parliament – certainly some not so much as others, but that are the fruit of the Parliament; four vowels representing the local tax administrations of Catalonia, that sort out the citizens, and six vowels representing the professional colleges, six; four vowels, with exclusive dedication, of the academic field, that we sort out in the Parliament, and the person responsible for the prevention and reduction plans and programs of the tax fraud of the tax agency, as well as two vowels representing social entities of recognized trajectory in the field of promoting fiscal awareness. Honestly, have some of you stopped to think about what they say about reality? They want people to believe they're not. I can only think of two things: either they didn't want to read well, or they have bad intentions. Why of the twenty-five people I've made now, five we sort them here, five; four, to the local world; yes, to the government – a government, I repeat, eh? , sorted for this Parliament –; more than one official who does not have an elected office or is political, and two social entities. And you put the letter to the cell for six representatives of professional colleges, that is, 25_per_cent. First, they question the colleges, and second, they say they'll all manipulate it. They're the ones we call here to compare, they're the ones we're listening to! I, in fact, do not know if they tend the decency of going to see them later and explaining to them that they do not trust them, professional colleges. In fact, the Board of State Guarantees has not given you the reason in which you insisted on this fact. That's why you don't say anything, absolutely nothing. I don't know why it bothers them that we make a law for people. What they may prefer is legislative chaos, which until now has been used to by the Spanish State, which is quite inconsistent. I'll tell you why: they don't want professional colleges, but in change, they endorse chaotic legislation that gives more work to tax advisors. What are we staying at? Do we want a clear, simple, understanding law for everyone? Yeah. Tax advisors, more work, less work, legislative chaos? No, it doesn't. Our layout is not transparent. It's as important an instrument as the tax system, and we can't give the scale to different actors. We don't have to fool ourselves that in the world, obviously there are tax advisors; surely this room is full, and many have devoted themselves to it. And the best way to do that is with transparency, creating a tax council that is a public, open and transparent body. Because we cannot make it clear that to reality there is one thing that is said to be the private sector and one thing that is said to be the public sector. And doing so clearly also means demanding a code of good practices from tax advisors, which is what we're putting up with this law. And this must allow more transparency and recognition to those who do it well. I, those who don't, Isha's saying they don't do it well. And it is also important that for the Fiscal Council there is also a tax research and tax study institute. What do you allow us to do? So, an infinity of things. In fact, I'm happy because everyone spoke well; some had doubts about the beginning, but now everyone speaks well. Well, I mean, we've moved on in a little bit. In fact, it will do a very important thing, which is to technically advise the Parliament of Catalonia and the Government of the Generality in the development of fiscal policy. In fact, I have had endless conversations with prestigious economists from my parliamentary group, who always tell me: "We do not understand how Parliament can legislate without an economic memory. I mean, we demand everything from the government, and more, and memories – and it's okay, huh? , and I already like it that way– but, in change, we can make proposals for the law without an economic memory, we don't ask any responsibilities..., and already is. It's not serious – it's not serious. [[Greetings.]] The group's economists. [[The joker laughs.]] And that's what I think we all share, plus, I'm sure. If we have an instrument that can help us, which is the institute, let's use it. And that's not squeezing, that's creating institutions that are needed for the country. And with the code we also reinforce the autonomy of the tax agency and the fight against tax fraud. Because fraud is the expression of the great weakness of the tax system, and that we can't afford. That's why we're strengthening the agency, so you can fight the tax fraud. Because, look, I've felt authentic... well, he's been right, but I've heard some barbarity, haven't I? From the citizens they say that "new technologies are needed, when fifteen days ago they say that no, that they did not want Espriu, that they want to have an information system like Gaudí, which is from the year 1999 – remember that I explained to them? They say we have to reflect on international models, but at the same time they tell us that what we plant today is apparatus. So, look, a discovery: the best international models have tax advice, have institute, have agency and have these instruments that we plant. And the Maria Senserrich, deputy for Junts, did not say yes: the world's best tax policy experts say so. So, make it clear that it's what they want, because we don't understand them too much. And be calm: we don't count with you; I know very hard, we don't count. And yes, maybe some Members need a vacation, a few more than others, because I think the vice president is here listening, the president is here listening, and I asked for a skin of benevolence before the members of the government were in a delicate situation for the country. I've only asked for benevolence, a little bit. Now they're here; don't worry, they're out of the loop and I'll inform them of their views regarding the tax code. But here they are and they are at our side. And, look, Congresswoman Àngels Martínez has done a reflection of what model we want... we invite her, and we know that she will participate firmly... because it's the second part of the tax code. Now we're just laying the foundations, as did the Regunant Member. It is the instrument that must allow us to make the model we want. And we are very clear that you will be there. I know it wasn't easy either. Maybe that's why we've heard company, the two of us, with the rest of the deputies who've been there on the stand. We haven't had it easy, all four of us, yes. But we did a good thing, which is talking, listening and making decisions. And, my dear, to Mr. Rodriguez, I know very hard, but do you know what's going on? That you say that we have not accepted absolutely anything. Miri, eighty-eight trading and accepting items; sixty-four, no. If that's not said dialog, "negotiate, "agree, I don't know. Maybe it's that you have another style that we don't share. Because while we're trying to do good girly things here, so there are ministers who use fiscal data with political use and nothing happens. And if you don't, I don't think they're asking us, I'm asking Ex-Minister Soria. Because those who want to list [[some applause]] Those who want to list are the Spanish government. And you have to decide if you want to be complicit in this. We're not complicit in it, no, because while pursuing Catalan policies for their ideology or now chasing government charges to do something that's said a web... my mother! To make a web we have people who are questioning them, who still don't know who or why or how, that maybe someone will have to explain to us, but we don't want to be accomplices on the second side of the keyboards. Because we've kept a tax code that we've made sure that the shapes and shapes were correct, very correct, with the firm conviction to complete what we committed to a few months ago. We've done it, we'll do it. And I am convinced and firmly convinced that on October 1st we will do so and the country will be able to vote freely. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.105.0	Thank you, Mrs. Senserrich. Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mr Espinosa, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.106.0	Yes, Madam President, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.107.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.108.0	Well, simply to tell Mrs. Senserrich that we appreciate the technology and the implementation of technology in the tax system, but naturally appropriate to the ability they have to manage taxes, i.e. not excessive. Similarly, we also do not want a disproportionate organic structure based on the same. Therefore, there is no contradiction. We bet on a logically modern system and a European system, but – but – let us take into account what we really have skills and what we are really going to manage. That's it, just that. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-28-4004.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Spiny. [[Long break.]] First of all, we will vote on the reserved items for the parliamentary groups. We shall vote on the opinions of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot; numbers 101, 120 and 155. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 35 votes to 73, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on issues number 46, 85 and 89. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Then we will vote for the slogan of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, number 1. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. We then vote on items 92, 103 and 132. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 26 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the Socialist Parliamentary Group's proposals. Vote items 2, 15, 34, 60, 61, 64, 65, 66, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 76, 77, 78, 102, 108, 118, 122, 134, 136, 137, 140, 141, 154 and 158. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 82, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 41, 82, 111 and 144. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the number 40 and 150 items. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 35 votes in favour, 98 against and no abstentions. We will then vote on the items 8, 12, 13, 18, 27, 29, 35, 37, 45, 48, 54, 83, 84, 86, 87, 88, 91 and 143. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 82 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 28. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 26 votes to 73, with 34 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 74th. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 73, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 73. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 35 votes to 73, with 25 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the nominations of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crida Constituent. Let's vote on exams number 104 and 106. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 9 votes in favour, 124 against and no abstentions. We shall now vote on the documents following the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees. We vote for the following statements submitted for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes number 4, 5, 6 and 10; for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia numbers 2, 3 and 4; for the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans numbers 6, 7 and 8, and for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot numbers 7, 8 and 9. The vote begins. The papers were approved by 124 votes in favour, 9 against and no abstentions. We are now voting for the subsequent papers presented for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes and Parliamentary Group of the People's Party of Catalonia number 1; the number 1 of Junts for the Yes and the number 1 of the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. The vote begins. The statements were approved by 98 votes to 26, with 9 abstentions. We now vote on the issue of the Parliamentary Group Together for the Yes, number 2. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 69 votes to 60, with 4 abstentions. We are voting now on the issue of the Parliamentary Group Together for the Yes, number 3. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 62, with 4 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the item number 7. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 62, with 4 abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 8. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 62, with 4 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the number nine item. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 67 votes to 62, with 4 abstentions. We now vote on the subsequent papers submitted by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Vote for exams 1, 2, 3, 9, 10, 11 and 12. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 25 votes in favour, 108 against and no abstentions. Let's vote now on items 4 and 5. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 82, with 26 abstentions. We will then vote on the papers presented for the Socialist Parliamentary Group and for the Catalonia Parliamentary Group Yes, it is Pot, numbers 1, 2, 3 and 6. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 51 votes in favour, 81 against and no abstentions. Let's vote now on items 4 and 5. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 26 votes to 81, with 25 abstentions. We will now vote on the text of the joint. We vote on Articles 321-1 to 324-1, and the final disposition according to the third book. The vote begins. The articles were approved by 97 votes to 36, with no abstentions. We now vote on the rest of the text of the opinion. The vote begins. The Law Proposal of the Tax Code of Catalonia [[applause]] and approval of the first, second and third books, relating to the Tax Administration of the Government of Catalonia, has been approved by 71 votes in favour, 62 against and no abstentions. [[Strong applause and perlongats.]] Like it's the last day, I want to thank everyone and all the work and dedication. Many thanks to what they have helped me, to what I have done easily, thank you very much. And thank you so much for making it difficult for me, because they helped me work hard, and I'm sure you helped me do better. Therefore, thank you very much to all of you, and that you have a very good holiday. [[Greetings.]] The session's up.
