ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.1.0	It's part of the session. Very good morning to all of you. [[Ask the Government about the agreement to reduce the transfer of the Ter]] [[310-00268/11]] First question to the Government, on the agreement to reduce the transfer of the Ter, formulated for Mr Jordi Munell, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.2.0	Good morning, President. Honourable Counselor... we didn't feel it, did we? [[The timer laughs.]] All right. Honourable Counsellor Rull, good morning. Members of Parliament, in this case we will talk about the rio ter. The solidarity of the river Ter towards the area of Barcelona and the metropolitan area has increased for several decades, almost five decades, and has allowed water supply to the metropolitan region. It certainly helps in a quality and in a vital quantity indispensable for the economic development and support of an important part of the country, also of the economy of the country, and on this part – important – metropolitan. But this continued transfer has also had an environmental impact on the Ter's basin that has made it impossible until now to absolve a good ecological state. In September 2016 – on the 2nd, concretely – was constituted the Taula del Ter, widely and historically claimed, a space – this institutional table – of dialect, participated for local administrations, users and entities of the territory, integrated by the Generalitat de Catalunya, the Juntament de Girona, the Consorci del Ter, the Junta Central d'Users d'Aigües del Baix Ter, the Centre d'Estudis dels Rius Mediterranis, the Group de Defensa del Ter, the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona, the Consorci de la Costa Brava and the platform of the civil society Aigua es Vida. One of the measures taken for the Table of the Third, of the first, was to constitute two technical tables, integrated by technical profiles and experts in the field, in order to bring rigour and data that allow the members of the Table to analyze and deepen in these situations. The first table analyzed the measures aimed at reducing the extraction of Ter's tails; the second one analyzed the management in situations of equal. The two prisons met during thirteen work meetings, and worked to develop a full, realistic and ambitious route. A few days ago an agreement was reached between the government and the entities of the territory. These actions have also set a timetable for the return of the Ter's cabal and the reduction of the dependence of the metropolitan area on this transfer, which will be settled in various temporal phases. Honourable Counselor, what are these main features and the terms of this agreement that we could call historic for the territory?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.3.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Munell. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.4.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Member; Madam President... Indeed, we are talking about an agreement that we could qualify as a historical agreement. It is historical in the measure that we plan to return things to their place, in the sense that the Ter has been of immense solidarity, extraordinary, exaggerated, if I may, in relation to the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona. In fact, this transfer, which exceeds any reasonable limit, was only understandable under a piece of legislation at a time of lack of democratic freedoms – we are talking about a Francoist law. What is the basic element on which this agreement is based? A new governance based on trust. And that's why we wanted to set up this Table of the Third, and that's why we wanted all the actors to do it, and we put technical data on the table. In this table there is also the Metropolitan Area of Barcelona – this was very relevant. And, on concrete technical data, we have established a full path that is plausible, that does not follow gesticulation, that does not follow a mere declaration of principles, but three concrete scenes, with investments perfectly guided and perfectly fixed in a concrete way. We are talking about a 50_percent reduction in Ter's contribution to Barcelona in two years, with these three scenes: a first scener, until 2022, in which the contribution of one hundred and sixty-six cubic hectometres would be reduced to one hundred and forty cubic hectometres; a second scener, until 2027, in which the reduction would arrive at ninety-six cubic hectometres a year, and a third stager, from 2027, in which it is not transvasary more than 30_percent of the unpacked water. That means we've managed to transfer up to 70 percent of the unpacked water, and we're moving from 70 to 30. How do we do that? Using new technologies. The technological innovation helps us extraordinarily, which means desalinization, which means water regeneration with the Prat regeneration plant – new water – and, for another band, the best use of water comes from the Llobregat, with the best of potability plants. These are all elements. On the 2nd day we solemnly sign this agreement. We will do it in Girona, under the presidency of President Carles Puigdemont, to give him this character of a historic agreement, for the benefit of the people of the country and environmental sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.5.0	Second question to the Government... [[Ask the Government about its actions in relation to the 2030 Agenda]] [[310-00269/11]] ...on his actions in relation to the 2030 Agenda, presented by Mr David Rodríguez, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.6.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Councillor, on September 25, 2015, the United Nations General Assembly approved the resolution to transform our world, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which marks a new agenda for action for the international community in the run-up to 2030, and which has nothing to do with the merger of two previous parallel processes: the objectives for the development of the millennium, starting with the Millennium Declaration, to put an end to the world's poor by the year 2000, and the 2012 Rio de Janeiro World Conference on Sustainable Development, where the document "The future we want, which sets global social and environmental priorities" was adopted. As stated in the 3/2016 Report of the Advisor to the Sustainable Development of Catalonia, the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development takes the view that all actors assume and implement it in the context of action. As you know, the agenda is based on five fundamental premises: the sense of urgency, in order to face the challenges and threats that affect sustainable development on a global scale; the transformative potential of the agenda respects the current stages that condition the sustainability of the planet; its global and universal character, which means that it must be applicable to all countries, starting, however, from the differences currently existing in each of them; the indivisible character of the objective dissipation that integrates it, and ultimately, the balance between the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development. In its statement, the General Assembly of the United Nations calls for ambitious national responses to implement the 2030 Agenda. We know that the Government of Catalonia is working intensively to set up an ambitious and viable framework to apply it to our home safely before the Spanish Government, which, as Minister Dastis informed the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Congress of Deputies last March, does not anticipate its assessment of its degree of compliment, from the agenda, by United Nations until the year 2019. In this march, the week of July 10-14, you and some members of your Department travelled to New York to explain what the Government of Catalonia is doing in relation to the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. Could you give us a short brushstroke of the main activities that the government is due to the deployment of the 2030 Agenda? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.7.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rodriguez. Reply by Mr. Raül Romeva, Counsellor of External Affairs, Institutional Relations and Transparency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.8.0	Thank you very much, President. Thank you very much, Congressman. Good morning. Indeed, as you have rightly pointed out, this is a compromise of United Nations, it is a task that the year 2015 the Assembly assumed in the form of 2030 Agenda, and therefore a task that United Nations does to the state. From the perspective of the Government of the Generalitat, and not only of the Government, but of the country, of the whole of the country, there is at these times an absolutely extraordinary availability and capacity to develop this task. And, obviously, what we did a few days ago various people in the department – I also had the honor of participating in it – was to present this compromise. In fact, the commitment on the part of the Government of Catalonia has already begun through the Department of Foreign Affairs, and in particular the Council Counsellor of Sustainable Development, when it drew up that report that you have outlined, named "The 2030 Agenda: Transforming Catalonia, Improving the World. This was the basis from which we started working from a multi-disciplinary and, in the case of the Government, interdepartmental perspective. It is the absolutely necessary way of working in order to be able to complete with the objectives that set the agenda, and, above all, in the framework of the five great spheres that lie ahead: people, planet, prosperity, poverty and, obviously, access to justice. This is what has allowed us, also, to work later on in the elaboration of an interdepartmental council, an interdepartmental committee, and a technical committee that has developed priorities in the six areas that at these times are the most important or the most priority, and this is the basis of what is the national plan, which includes 126 strands and 750 commitments from the Government to develop, in the legislative framework of the Catalan law, precisely these requests, these petitions that are made in the field of the United Nations. All this we have done, obviously, in a time absolutely – I think – very laudable. Therefore, there has been a direct and participatory involvement of all the departments that I believe need to put into value, because, as you have well stated, this is an approach that has an unquestionable global dimension. We are doing a job of the government, but also of the country, which puts us at the forefront of the countries and states that at these times lead this debate, and which, indeed, must also allow us – as the Climate Change Law itself will do – to place us in the global debate of these issues with the will, the ability and the vocation to lead and above all to be present, with you personally, in all these spheres and in all these debates. Therefore, the work that has been done, as always in these cases, is a lot, but it is also obvious – and that is why we are asking ourselves – that is a lot that still needs to be done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.9.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the government about its tourism strategy]] [[310-00270/11]] Third question to the Government, on its strategy in relation to tourism, formulated by Mr. Jordi Orobig, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.10.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. MPs, MPs, Councillor Vila, Catalunya is a country where the industrial sector has a very important specific fish, but also the tourism sector is transcendent. I understand that this adjective the mereix that generates 14_percent of the gross domestic product and 12_percent of the country's occupation. These data show the strategic nature, for what it does to our economy, of the tourism sector, but I understand that, in order to be aware of its magnitude, we must complement them. Thus, the year 2016 Catalunya was made up of 18 million foreign tourists. The total expenditure accumulated by those who visited Catalonia last year was EUR 17,434_million. For which, like me, « paints dogs and many times we have to return the change with pesseti, we would talk about 2_bilions_900,000_million_of pesseti; I understand that it is a data that makes clear the magnitude of this sector. For the year 2015, this figure represents an increase of 3.7_per_cent. Studies at the University of Barcelona believe that this import should be supplemented by the indirect effects resulting from the calculation of a multiplier coefficient which can be obtained by mixing these with enterprises in the sector. Some studies say this coefficient between 1.8 and 2.5, and, therefore, we would be talking about an approximate impact of 6_bilions, again, of the ancient pesetas. However, we understand that there is one more concept to add to it, which is that of the induced effects, that is, the expense that is generated on the part of the entrepreneurs and workers in the sector with the returns obtained from this activity. This year's data, it is said, in the first half of 2017, subscribe to the consistency of the tourism sector as one of the pillars of our economy. We have rejected 6.6_million foreign tourists, a 10.5_per_cent more than in the same period of the past year; we understand that it is not to have tourists to hold them – we fully agree in this eternal debate between quality and quantity. And there is also another important fact, which is the increase of passengers on international flights. All these data, however, cannot hide an important social debate in respect of tourism bonds, that is, whether there is a privatizing of the benefits and a socialization of the lost. In the face of this debate, which causes even the citizens of our country's capital to plant tourism as one of the main social concerns, we believe that it is the interest of this parliamentary group which, on the part of the Councillor, respects the government's strategy for tourism in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.11.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. Reply by Mr Santi Vila, Business and Coneixement Counsellor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.12.0	Very good morning, very honorable president. Illustrated Member, well, indeed, the approach to tourism everywhere is very important, even more so in Catalonia. You referred to it in terms of gross domestic product – this 14_per_cent – but also from the point of view we could say social and cultural it is clear that the transcendence of tourism in our country has had very positive consequences. Approaching this theme as a problem and not as an opportunity would be a serious mistake, and I think this is the first aspect that we need to make very clear. We would be wrong a lot, like society, if we were to project ourselves into the world as a city – Barcelona – or as a country – Catalonia – a few friends of tourism. Tourism has many positive effects economically, socially, culturally. Indeed, it has to be recognized that positive externalities – which are, and are, many – also have some negative externalities, which we do not really have to socialize or avoid responsibilities. In this sense, I am sure that for many years the various administrations have made good promotion policies and have not always made good management policies. A few days ago the same President of the Generality presided over a meeting with the whole sector, with all the operators, with all the shares, and, indeed, the positive numbers were found in absolute and also in qualitative terms. He was clearly committed to a model that is intended to be sustainable, sustainable not only from the environmental point of view, but also from the territorial point of view, and it was very clear that the card of excellence was to be played. In this sense, the Government of Catalonia and the consultancy that I have just taken as its holder have two important instruments, which are the strategic and the marketing plan, which, among other things, also have the look in place at the achievement of a national pact that is more or less in line with what the National Pact for Industry has achieved, which has been celebrated from all spheres and from all sectors. I would also like to confirm that this late, in agreement with the university, in agreement with the various operators and with the various administrations, we would be in a position to activate a new cluster of the tourism sector that, in short, confirms what has been so far a reality, and that is that this is a real country power in relation to tourism, as both receivers and emitters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.13.0	Thank you very much, Counsellor Vila. [[Ask the Government about the strategic plans of health regions]] [[310-00266/11]] Fourth question to the Government, on the strategic plans of the health regions, presented for the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.14.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Counselor. "We are not going to dismember the ICS; I suppose you recognize these words, because they are theirs, from the beginning of the legislature. We understand that this is like responding to the failed projects of its predecessor, such as the Sanitari Consortium of Lleida, the functional plans of Tarragona or the CIMS project in Girona. You were talking about decentralisation, and your decentralisation is the strategic and functional plans. Of all the health regions, there is no sign that has little or no difference with the functional plans of the time of Councillor Ruiz, beyond the territorial enlargement, and another in process to the gironine comarques that the majority – and all its governing companies – wanted to focus on the location of the Hospital Trueta, except, in fact, us, who want to talk about management and level of decentralisation. That's why we'd like to know where this strategic plane is at, and who are the proper ones to activate, and who are the real differences – if there is any, and I know you'll say yes – between your strategic and functional plans and Boi Ruiz's functional plans, beyond the name, because the opacity continues: it's still planning to unite centers without uniting management or ownership, and we can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.15.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Reply to Mr. Antoni Comín, Councillor of Salut.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.16.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Member, I appreciate the question, because it is very concrete, and so gives me the opportunity to clarify some questions. Just to see, between the functional plans to which you refer and the strategic plans that we are moving forward in this legislature. First we need to clarify that one thing is the strategic plan, that it is the planning instrument of a health region, and another thing is the functional plans, that all the hospitals of the world of all the countries that have a health system at their disposal – each hospital with its functional plan. I said not to sweep concepts. The strategic plans of the region, what do they claim? Precisely what they are trying to do is to ensure that we stop planning at the impulse of the providers, which is what has historically happened in our system of salvation; it is a very consolidated opinion in the conjunction of the actors of the system. Between the health plan, which is the law of the health system for a while, during a concrete period, and the contract, there was no instrument between mem bers, which meant that, in the end, the contract is ugly often putting the needs to the service of the suppliers, or, to say the least... more in economic terms, putting the demand to the service of the offer. And precisely what we're doing is giving the turn to planning, so that from now on the people's needs are being saved, that is, the demand, the one that determines the purchase, the contracting of the suppliers. That's why we make the strategic plans for the region. And these strategic plans, which are not opaque, which have been done in a transparent and participatory way, are precisely what they do to identify the demand for a particular health region, and from here on, to start making the contract according to that demand. We're giving the system a turn, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.17.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's the word Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.18.0	Thank you, Counselor. Does it explain to me how in the convenient signed 2013 and in the convenient signed 2017 the strategic lines are exactly the same? Did they give him the turn? And you were talking about transparency and participation – you said it too in February 2016 – but, again, the strategic plan of Camp Tarragona is made up of sketches for workers and users. Where was it possible to discuss whether the most logical option was the integration of Gipps into the ICS or not, taking into account the conflict with current workers, public enterprise workers who now see themselves relegated to not having the condition of public workers? What participation are we talking about when Girona was only able to participate in a meeting where we can talk about the management model, and obviously, about labour relations? Where can it be said that the most logical option in the case of Girona is that the Trueta and Santa Caterina hospitals vagrate to the same hospital park, but not as you put it, but that this is only possible on the basis of a clear compromise of the disappearance of the IES, mediating integration to the ICS, as proof that it will be managed by one hundred_per_cent public? A single meeting, Mr. Comín; a single meeting, Mr. Counsellor. If you really believe in the beginning of a process, in which we must define between all and all what model of public health we want for our workers and users, the project of functional plans where the strategic lines coincide exactly with the same ones of the previous time only strengthens and strengthens the autonomous health system that we know so far, which has filled the pockets at the cost of the rights and the salvation of all. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.19.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. There's the word the Comin advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.20.0	Yeah. Madam MP, look, first, concrete: between the functional plan of the Tarragonese and the Baix Camp and the current strategic plan of the health region of the Camp de Tarragona, the differences are quite obvious. The first is that in one case it was two comarques and now it's from all over the region. The second is that it is convenient that the formalization in the first case was only of some providers and now it is a convenience of all providers to align with this strategic plan. But the most important thing – I explained earlier – is that precisely now what we are doing is putting providers at the service of healthcare demand, and not the demand at the service of providers. Therefore, I assure you that philosophy is different and new. Participation, in the first instance, will be professional. And that's why these strategic plans set up the clinical commissions in each of the health regions with professionals from all over the world, and each of the centers, which are the ones that need to be brought to the detail of the operation. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] These strategic plans. Besides, we have a few health tips from every health region where all these actors you're talking about are at these moments thinking about all the issues related to the region, among them the strategic plan of each health region. And you know perfectly well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.21.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.22.0	...that we're reactivating them, these tips.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.23.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Asks the Government about the aggravation of the continuance of the C-32 motorway]] [[310-00267/11]] Five questions to the Government, on the turbulent precautionary of the extension of the C-32 motorway, formulated for Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.24.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor Rull, I would like to know your opinion on the precautionary suspension of the extension of the C-32 motorway to Lloret de Mar emesa for the High Court of Justice of Catalonia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.25.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Reply by Mr Josep Rull, Counsellor of Territories and Sustainability.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.26.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, that's very bad news. We will obviously go through this interlocutory, and therefore ask for these precautionary measures to be taken.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.27.0	Thank you, Counsellor Rull. There's the word Mr. Vidal.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.28.0	Thank you, Counselor. I would have liked a precautionary answer before a precautionary suspension, but not: they have done the same thing they have done so far, which is to pull for the right, which is to develop the little noble art of trilerism, in some moments. The Government knew, Mr. Counsellor, that the environmental impact report prepared in the year 2000 – 2000 – for the initial project did not serve for a substantially different project in 2016. It's common sense in a clean state, counselor. Despite this, the Generality extends its validity – I think it was Councillor Vila – and with this, among other things, it will allow me to tell you that there are two European directives, and with this I don't think it is just the same Generality: there is a 2010 report from the Territorial Services of the Department of Environment and Habitat in Girona that they say that the modifications would have to subtend to a new environmental assessment process for the impact on the landscape of the coveted coast of the South Bravo Coast, for the impact on ecological connectivity and for the impact on various areas of interest for flora and fauna. Up to three times – up to three times – during the years 2015 and 2016 we have put forward motions for resolutions that warn that the government was failing to comply with the law. We have had to ask the European Parliament, which gave us the reason, because without an impact assessment, neither the protection of the roads nor the reversibility of the work were guaranteed. And finally, to the shame of everyone, but above all to the shame of my government, the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia gives us the reason for this. The question is simple: do you not know what a few of us knew? Who are the reasons to shoot for the right? Is it perhaps related, this rush, to the seven-year arrangement of the 2015 government agreement with Abertis, that this work is being commissioned to change to extend the concession of the toll? I mean, does it have anything to do with skipping the rule when we have to provide business to business friends? Say no, please; say no, that's not it. But they didn't just listen to the legal terms: they didn't listen to the people who told Blanes and Lloret not in a consultation; they didn't listen to the Ple de Blanes, who stood up against it; they didn't listen to the plataforms and the techniques that the aircraft said there were different alternatives that were less expensive and less aggressive than the one you had granted to the country's main highway business in relation to the first motorway built, which is depreciated thirty-two times. Doesn't it seem to you that it would be understood, before the power of right-wing interlocutors, to remove the project and seek shared alternatives with the citizenry, counselor? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.29.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Counselor Rull responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.30.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I won't lose my temper. That is to say, you have made some statements that are simply unacceptable, entrepreneurship. Look, I'm telling you exactly what this is about. [[The counselor shows an image to the camera.]] That's the project, huh? He can see exactly. [[Widow's remorse.]] Excuse me. Mr. Forn, Councilman Forn has been the first victim of... [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.31.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.32.0	The blau is what was put forward in the year 2000 with the construction project of the year 2008, on an environmental issue of the tripartite government, with a councillor from Medi Ambiente d'Initiativa and with a general director of Initiative who endorsed this. The blau is what you set up. The taronja is what we plant. Do they see that the blau is more extensive than the taronja? That's exactly what it is. Therefore, do not say that there is a project that is superior to what was proposed; on the contrary, we have reduced it significantly. It's different because it's reduced significantly. Information study, the year 2001, the year 2002; environmental surveys, the year 2001; the year 2010, an environmental survey with an initiative advisor for Catalonia and with a general director of initiative that is the current commission of Medi Ambient de l'Ajuntament de Barcelona, Mr. Ximeno; another environmental survey, the year 2014. And, finally, what do we do? We're looking at a project that incorporates more environmental cautions and repeats the project's abst, because you don't foresee the connection of National II to C-32, for one band, and, for another band, because it returns the carts from two plus two plus two plus u. Therefore, this could have been a question for any other, but the initiative for Catalonia – at these times, Catalonia Yes, it is Pot –, and it does, I insist, in terms that are absolutely entrepreneurship, suggesting insinuations that we cannot accept any of the ways. The territory needs this well-planned, well-dimensioned infrastructure to ensure that the territory is more balanced, that it is more competitive. That's the point. This is the people who will continue to do what they do; the people will continue to do what they do and will continue to do with the air pollution. What do we intend to do? Doing things as we have always done, make them well-balanced: well-dimensioned infrastructures, well integrated environmentally and landscapeally. It is possible to establish the country's modernity in terms of sustainability. This is our compromise, and this is what we defend before justice. We'll teach this platanol...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.33.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.34.0	...that you're clear and obvious. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.35.0	Sisena asks the government... [[Ask the Government about the Generality's access to funding mechanisms]] [[310-00265/11]] ... on the Generality's access to the financing mechanisms, formulated for Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. [[Widow's remorse.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.36.0	Thank you very much, President. Mr Junqueras, you, last May, on a trip to the United States, stated that Catalonia would no longer depend on the FLA because you had found American investors who would buy Catalan debt. After a few months of cautious waiting, could the identity of at least one of those investors facilitate us? Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.37.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.38.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Alejandro, good morning. His obsession with making me say things that I have not said or that I have not always said, I give him reason: indeed, today is the day that Mr. Mariano Rajoy appears before justice to give explanations about cases of corruption [[applause]] , and, in concrete terms, about the accusation against the People's Party, its party, as a corrupt organization, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.39.0	Thank you, Vice President. I have the word Mr. Fernández.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.40.0	Thank you, President. Thank you also, Mr Junqueras, for not having insisted on investors, because it is clear that that day you invented it, because it is more difficult for them to lend you money than to find your signature in the referendum call. [[Voice remorse and applause.]] But let's get to the point: look, I must announce to you – already you imagine, you are seeing it – that you have run out of the honeymoon you had with Catalan public opinion despite – I must admit – your proverbial ability to go rositas to the problems. But today Catalan public opinion already knows the real political dimension of who should be the great white hope of Catalan independence. It is a political dimension that describes us to a terrible manager of Catalan public finances, under whose mandate the risk premium has been set at 390 basic points, under whose mandate the debt of the Generalitat has increased by 2,764_million more, under whose mandate not only Catalonia continues to be a garbage bond according to all rating agencies, but we are already the worst Spanish autonomous community and – what is worse and more worrying – the worst outlook for the future has, with a 319_per_cent of debt weight and an absolute inability to finance itself in international markets. And that which you were the star of the government; how will everything else be... But, to that proverbial ability that you had shown to go off with rosettes, another proverbial ability was added to go unnoticed in the laudation of the corruptes of your governing partners. Until yesterday: yesterday you ran out of that capacity and made one last pirouette, yesterday afternoon, filtering to the right and wrong that you had passed the famous recruitment report on 6 February to justice, but even that last pirouette raises very serious questions. The first: I am already telling you that we will ask you for the diligence of referral to the courts, not because we do not trust you, but since you usually have an expansive imagination, you better have the role. And two: why was he able to explain it to everyone yesterday and not in February? Why? Why did he hide it in February? Look at yourself as you look at yourself, you've been hiding from Catalan public opinion the corruptions of your government partners for a few months. And as much as he insists, we're going to demand explanations. Today you have a new opportunity to explain yourself correctly; if you keep the vague and ambiguous explanations that you have had so far, you will not be able to continue for one more minute in your government responsibilities. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.41.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. The words of Vice President Junqueras.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.42.0	Indeed, as you explain, Mr Alejandro, deputy Alejandro, the Catalan economy works very well: it has increased by 3.5_per_cent for two years as a result; the Government of Catalonia has lowered the average term of payment below the thirty days established for the law in a very clear way. Indeed, as you acknowledge and explain, the Government of Catalonia is characterized by an extremely rigorous, serene management of public finances. Indeed, as you acknowledge, the Government of Catalonia has significantly reduced a non-financial deficit – among other things, because you are also refusing to finance it –, which allows us for the first time to cover the needs of users of health, education, social services..., promptly. For the first time we have, many years ago, a government that is able to satisfy the needs of the providers of these social services that benefit the conjunction of our citizens. According to the data published for the government to which you support, in the liquidation of the year 2015 you were wrong in the calculation of the beast in 1,870_million euros, no more or less – 1,870_million euros. Obviously, if these money had been held in 2015, as it sought, then we certainly could have done many more things than could have been done in the country, not this government, but all the citizens, you yourself. And when you don't help us to have your government properly calculate these figures, it doesn't harm this government, but it harms the citizens' conjunction– you too, your veins–; all those who voted for it also see themselves harmed by their repeated mistakes, which repeat again any year when they calculate the beast at the bottom. I remind you that these 1.870_million euros are roughly equivalent to the financing of the FLA. So, listen, you know what they can do? Don't be wrong. And if they're not mistaken, don't call FLA, because if you calculate well which is the edge of the financing system, then don't call FLA anymore. You don't have to let us lend ourselves to that which you miscalculate and hold us over the financing system. I'm not making a mistake. Think of Spain, think of the Spanish citizens; think of the Spanish citizens who see the future of their pensions threatened because you have polished 70,000_million euros [[applause]] of the Social Security Reserve Fund. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.43.0	Vice President, you've run out of time. Thank you, Vice President. [[Greetings.]] [[Ask the Government about the termination and appointment of the Director General of Police]] [[310-00263/11]] Seven questions to the Government, on the termination and appointment of the Director General of the Police, formulated for Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.44.0	Good morning, everybody. What is the government's thinking in relation to the termination and appointment of the Director General of Police? Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.45.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. Reply by Mr. Joaquim Forn, Councillor of the Interior.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.46.0	Ah – forgive me – yes, how are you? Good morning. [[Rialles.]] Thank you. Thank you, President. Member, well, first mistake: there is no cessation – there is no cessation. The Director General presented the resignation, just as the Councillor did. Therefore, your question, in this case, would be wrong. What happened is an absolutely normal expression in a normal country: a counselor comes in again, there are people who resign, and, from this resignation, therefore, there is a proposal, which was raised to the Government, of a new director general. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.47.0	Thank you, Counsellor Forn. There's the word Lord Castle.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.48.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, in the first place, welcome you to your new responsibility. I wish you, despite the discrepancy, very uncertain. I quote, I commit -- they're tweets. Lluís Rabell, Dolors Camats : « Vote Together for the Yes has nothing to do with the very honorable Mas, but only with whether or not we want to stay in Spain. Change the song. « Brillant, President Mas, we are soldiers to the service of the very honorable Carles for the dignity and decency of our country. Popular Party, Citizens and Socialists: "For pity, the only argument against Catalonia's independence is the alleged corruption of Convergence. "God-in-law, I hope we're not going, because I'm sorry, all the Spaniards. "Between Gabriel and Gabriela, we are well served. "Look, national CUP, about your decision, but very sorry, all folds; I am a few sectarians. And he says so; god-in-law, huh? Look, naturally, Mr. Pere Soler has right to think and say what he wants – naturally. The problem is to pretend that a typhose is the best responsible for the Cosos de Mossos d'Esquadra; the problem is to have placed in this high dignity a person who is not able to actively exercise prudence. There is no more essential task of his task than the compliment of the legal order, which is always one, however much they claim to have charged Kelsen and his legal pyramid of law books: in his duties as Terrassa's governor, Pere Soler and Campins was a clear advocate of legality and vehemently controlled the local government of his stage. So now is the time to defend the law with the same vehemence; or do they pretend not to follow it? Or is it that they claim, by this name, to confront the Squad Squad Squad Squad with some other security thing that comes to make the law or court orders complete? Or has he not been appointed for his abilities or for his suitability for the job place? Or is it only a person who is very faithful to the independence mandate, and that's why his name is? Miri, counselor, explain his idea, clarify the use of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and tranquillize his agents, who are laying themselves in mass – I don't know if they know – take a vacation on October 1st in order not to suffer conflicting pressures as to the compliment of the law. Let the Mosses do their job. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.49.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Counselor Forn responds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.50.0	Well, it's a contradiction, asking for peace and being the ones who constantly stage this issue... [[Widow's remorse.]] Forgiven, constantly – constantly. [[Greetings.]] Deixin... look, I did...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.51.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.52.0	The decision to appoint Mr. Pere Soler is a decision of my own that has all the technical and political support, and therefore I am not completely satisfied and I think it is a certainty. And now I'll tell you why. You yourself and a lot of people from different parties, when they met him in his role as director of prison services..., everyone endorsed and everyone recognized his ability to dial, his ability to interact; all this is recognition. He also recognized all this at the Terrassa Assembly, we occupied an important position. What happened? That from the moment that this person is appointed Director General, all this no longer serves, and it no longer serves, precisely, because it creates this report that you so much like, this report that things are done wrong. So, listen, it's not like that – it's not like that. Mr. Soler is a dialogue person, he is a person, as we say, very capable of interacting, he knows very well the Administration; he has a great experience in management, as he demonstrated to the head of the General Directorate of Prison Services; he has legal training, he is a good expert in administrative and legal procedures. And, therefore, he's a person I think is perfect – perfect – to occupy this position of Director General. And you told me to defend the law. And that's what we're gonna do, defend the law. And I'd appreciate it if, in the same way that you claim it here, you would also demand it from your deputies at the Congress of Deputies, because, before certain members of a particular police force have acted, you've turned the corner. [[Funnel veils]] ...forgive me, they've turned the board, they haven't allowed certain appearances, and they've refused... [[Widow's remorse.]] I understand that you're hurting them, that's all, but it's the truth. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.53.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.54.0	And they refused... and you refused to bring the findings of the investigation commission to the prosecution. I understand that you're hurting them, because the requirement they have with the Squad Movements doesn't hold it at the Congress of Deputies. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.55.0	Thank you, Counsellor Forn. [[Ask the Government about child malnutrition]] [[310-00264/11]] Vuitena asks the Government, on child malnutrition, formulated for Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.56.0	Thank you, President. Honourable Consellera Bassa, the year 2015 your department stopped accounting for minors in a situation of malnutrition, and since a year and a half ago it does not meet the follow-up committee that assesses these situations. The questions I ask him are very concrete: why has he suspended this recount, and if he intends to reconvene this follow-up commission.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.57.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.58.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, Congressman. Thank you for asking this question, because it allows me to say that, for the first time since 2009, the risk rate of poverty in children under the age of seven has decreased from 28_per_cent to 24_per_cent – therefore, four points – which means fifty_thousand children less at risk of poverty. Something they want to see, politics. Your question, I will answer it clearly: this protocol of 2004 was obsolete because at June 2016 we approved a new meeting with Teaching and Greeting, and we worked coordinatedly on the three departments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.59.0	Thank you, Counselor. There's a word from Mr. Moreno.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.60.0	Thank you, President. Madam Counselor, in July 2013 the Pact for the Childhood of Catalonia was signed between the Government, political parties and more than fifty social entities. One_me later, Councillor Ruiz must remember that he claimed in this same chamber that Catalonia did not have child malnutrition. As a result of that pact, and also from the various reports of the Greuges Syndicate and the complaints of various social entities, 2014 sets out a protocol calling for the accounting of cases in Catalonia and the convening of the follow-up committee. So, well, nothing at all: today neither accounts nor meets the commission. Replace this rebate for the number of grants and for social emergency aid, and these data are unreliable, among other things, because a single family can receive various different support on malnutrition issues – because not all families in this situation go to social services – and because they are not accounting for some help that comes to the joints outside of the same program contract. His department claims, for another band, that they have this child abuse protocol in place approved the year 2016 that already speaks of malnutrition, it is true, but as the element to take into account for the detection of risk situations; there is no circuit to follow nor concrete actions to end malnutrition. Moreover, in the Social Emergencies Plenary the Parliament urged them to present, from the first half of 2016, the assessment of the detection protocol and attention to childhood at risk of malnutrition, which they obviously did not present because they did not even collect the data. He'll advise, if we want to make good policies, I'll have an exact X-ray of the situation. We do not ask him to tell us the millions of euros he invests in childhood, the scholarships he is donating, the march protocols that are approved and not applied, or the number of commissions he creates and is not convoked. What we want to know is how many children there are in Catalonia with malnutrition problems, and at this hour, Counselor, their department doesn't know. We're asking you to retrieve the account and call it a follow-up commission. We are not telling you that you do nothing for childhood, do not understand this, but without these data, without this assessment, we may be applying few effective policies, which serve us more to sleep in peace than to solve a difficult problem that still exists in Catalonia today.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.61.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. There's the word Bassa Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.62.0	Thank you, President. Deputy Moreno, this same question a long time ago made me a medium that you must know very well, and therefore I answered it exactly, with all the data, but I will repeat it: we have three lives of detection, because we have improved that protocol of 2014. At these times, the number of people and children with malnutrition, which is not the same as malnutrition, because you know very well that malnutrition is unbalanced nutrition, that it does not mean malnutrition, that it is malnutrition, that it is malnutrition, and therefore we are talking about people, we are talking about programs that are not pal·liatius, but transformers..., and here is where we are working. The three lives of detection, I told them very clearly: basic social services, educational centres and health services. But, besides, I'll tell him that the syndic's last report is from the year 2013, and he says that at that time there are fifty-thousand infants with malnutrition. So, look, we're this year, from Teaching, for periods that are lectious, we've donated 106,000 paws, groceries – so, 106,000 infants have dyed the paw. But, in addition, in the non-lectile programs that we are giving this study we have also increased in millions, which I will no longer tell you how many, because I do not ask, but we have 3,500 places for infants in open centers; a socio-educational program, which is what this change in malnutrition needs to be made, in couples and for many infants; it works directly in all couples, to the "You are yours, for all infants. Therefore, I changed from palliative and assistanceist policies to transformers. And here's the guaranteed income – which, still guaranteed by the weights, we've all been able to take over and we'll be able to implement properly – will make this change that we all need. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.63.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Ask the Government about the Mossos d'Esquadra]] [[310-00271/11]] Ninth question to the Government, on the Mossos d'Esquadra, formulated for Mr Carlos Carrizosa, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.64.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Councillor, if you continue with your plans, this afternoon you plan to adopt a regulation that facilitates the express breakup, and then you plan to adopt other laws, so to repeat on 9 November. It is most likely that the Constitutional Court will annul these laws and re-establish the state of legality that we now have, which are the Constitution and the Statute. What would you do if that happened? If the Constitutional Court annuls these laws, what will you do with the Mossos d'Esquadra: will you force them to obey you or the laws in force for the Constitutional Court?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.65.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's a word from Mr. Joaquim Forn, interior advisor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.66.0	Yes, thank you. Good morning. I've said it many times before, and I've been asked since the first moment I came to the council, and I've already said it again and again, there's no problem, I can't change my mind every time: we're able to vote that day. What we do is that people can exercise their vote. In a normal country, what happens when there are elections? In a normal country, when there are elections, when there is an electoral contest, people can go to vote, and the function of the police is to ensure that they can vote freely and securely. And this will be the function that will be developed from the Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Squad Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.67.0	Thank you, Counselor. You have the word Mr. Carrizosa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.68.0	Well, Mr. Counselor, sometimes we don't seem to get along when we talk. The concept of legality and laws is very clear. If I'm telling you..., I put you in the thesis that the Constitutional Court has annulled that October 1 that you want to celebrate and you say that the Mossos will tell you to also collaborate in the realization of that October 1, then you are saying that you will put the Mossos at the service of the Puigdemont Government, and not of all Catalans. You mean by that the Mossos stop being a judicial police to be a government police, to do whatever your government tells you. That's what you're saying. You, in your government of the most indefatigable, seem to be that you do not even respect what everyone says, except you. Look, says the senior lawyer in an article, says the lawyers gathered on a board, says the Council of Guarantees Statutàries that you name, says the Constitutional Court, says the Venice Commission, says the United Nations – which, by the way, has just given Mr. Romeva another twist – and says it to everyone, from Mr. Bayona to Mr. Ban Ki-moon, but to you that gives it exactly the same. Look, they'd have to respect a little. [[remorse of the voice]] ..., gentlemen of the government and Mr Forn, they would have to respect the Mossos d'Esquadra, because it is a shame that a police officer who is so well valued by all Catalans has to see himself between the sword and the wall because of his irresponsibility and his unconsciousness, and – I add – because of his cowardice. Because you're a coward and you don't want to recognize [[strong remorse of the eyes]] who is putting the Mosses between the sword and the wall. The unions, Mr Councillor, are doing what you should do, which is to defend the Mosses from the illegalities that you intend to commit. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.69.0	Thank you, Mr. Carrizosa. There's a word for Councilman Forn.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.70.0	Thank you. I'll be more polite, Mr. Carrizosa. I don't like insult. [[applause]] I don't insult people. I'm trying to convince you with arguments, because I think that's what citizenship requires, that we put arguments on the table, that we dial – dial – and that we can talk to each other, without insulting. And, therefore, I will continue my exhibition. I appreciate a lot of things. I appreciate you talking about the concept of legality, I really appreciate it, and that's what we're gonna do. But, listen, she's not worried, she's not a cop to the president's office. I explained yesterday in an inquiry what were the reps that we marked, that we marked ourselves – I don't know if you were there – and I explained the reps that the police mark, and I broke them down. That doesn't interest anyone. You're just obsessed with October 1st. Well, all right, no problem. [[Widow's remorse.]] But once you speak only of police to the president's servant, I'll tell him one thing, which is the same thing that you gave to the Socialist Party: this demand, keep it also in Madrid, keep it also in Madrid. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, yes, yes, you have also prevented appearances, prevented it from bearing the conclusions to the prosecution. And yesterday I said... to the People's Party, I said another thing to them: "What shall we not do? And if I make it clear: we will not use public resources to attack political opponents, we will not do so. [[Greetings.]] We don't have prosecutors, we don't have prosecutors, we don't have them. We will not create police structures or patriotic polices to fight those ideologies against ours; neither will we, outside of the Squadre Moss Cossos, do this. And let's not invent false accounts in Switzerland, let's not look for a police officer who invent false accounts in Switzerland, because that's not necessary either and we don't want it either. And you'd have to worry about that precisely, and that's what they didn't do. And I'm telling you, we'll complete the law and October 1st will be able to vote, and October 1st will make it easier for the police to vote freely and safely. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.71.0	Thank you, Counsellor Forn. [[Question to the President of the Generality on the guarantees of credibility of the October 1 referendum]] [[317-00179/11]] This question, to the President of the Generality, about the political and social situation, formulated for the Lord Benet Salellas, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.72.0	Thank you, President. Good morning, President, Councillors, Councillors, Deputies and Deputies. President, we read yesterday to Le Figaro – and we welcomed it – that you explained in an interview that you will not feel questioned for the Constitutional Court if you disable it, and that you will bring forward with the reference of '1 October pass what you pass with the decisions of the institutions of the State. We agree, we celebrate it; it is simply a compliment, on the other hand, on the compromise we have taken, as in Parliament, in the declaration of 9 November 2015. These days we have followed so many other examples of the "separation of powers that we have in the State... : the performance of the Court of Auditors, of the companion of the Council of Ministers of Mr Rajoy, the Margarita Mariscal of Ghent and Mirón ; the jutjat 13 and the TNC ; the Civil Guard, coming into Parliament ; the « Virei Enric Millo, threatening with the dissolution of this Parliament... Well, every time the Spanish State assembles more to a keystroke and less to a state. Therefore, we say that this reference is a necessity not only democratic, but that every time it is more an ethical necessity, before so much clutter. And that's why we also think there's no such thing as October 1st; there's a copy of it, which most of the country asks. Who are the passes that the president can explain to us in relation to this direction, to the credibility guarantees of the October 1 referendum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.73.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.74.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Salellas, Mr. Deputy, good morning. Only one morning: I said literally to Le Figaro, and I repeat here, if there was a suspension arising from the reform of the Law of the Constitutional Court, reform – I want to remind you one more time – made for a single reading for the urgency procedure and without the qualification of the Bureau of the Congress, directly from the Government to the Congress, I will not accept this suspension, because it is violating the State of Catalonia, because the causes for the failure to be president of the Generality of Catalonia are not in place..., in case there is no possibility that it contemplates this reform for a single reading by the way of urgency of the Law of the Constitution. The reference we have explained enough; you have knowledge of it, because you have been part of the forecasts of what the Law of the reference will be and also of the work done by the government. And I believe that the best guarantee we can give of the reference to Catalonia..., is an exemplary reference, that it is a democratic and ethical need, as you say, and I agree; it is a reference that is made with all the guarantees that are always made by all references in this country.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.75.0	Thank you, President. There's the word Mr. Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.76.0	Thank you, President. President, another of the institutions that appeared in this catalog of separation of powers to the Spanish has been precisely the FLA, these last few days. For us, any institution that is being used against political projects is a democratic scandal, but we would appreciate it if this question of the FLA would also include a certain debate on the foundations, which we do not feel, of the government's spokespersons on the FLA's background, right? on the issue of the debt and on the problem of "deutocracy or debt", which is actually one of the obsessions of this People's Unity Candidate - Creed Constituent, precisely because we understand that deutocracy limits the exercise of sovereignty, and so at the time we worked that in this statement of 9 November there is a specific departure on this issue, which your government has not completed. Moreover, the members of his government's economic area do not criticise the FLA as an institution in their own right, because they have not stopped putting it on hold and because they have not even allowed us to audit it, even though this Parliament has already made more than a year ago a decision to audit jointly, transparently and citizenly the question of public debt. This ethical and democratic need to refer to us also in the resistance to the tyranny of the debt, and we would welcome the sharing of the ethical need for this government to fight and criticize and hold the debt and the deutocracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.77.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.78.0	Yeah. Mr. Salellas, just some clarification, because I believe that the vice president today, of course, to the answer he has given, has exactly explained the government's opinion on the FLA. In fact, he has said it – I want to reiterate here –: if it is not well calculated the beasts of which he would be close to Catalonia as a result of the recaptancy – of the fiscal effort, therefore, which the Catalans are doing – it would not be possible to resort to the FLA, because they would pay us to those who are close to us in time and in form, and, therefore, to deal with the needs of the Generality, it would be perfectly impossible to access the FLA. Yesterday, at the press round after the Executive Board, both the vice president and the government's own spokesman dedicated I would say that a long time is to explain exactly what is going on with the FLA, and what I can do is not the first time I say it, I will say it as often as I need it...., this will certainly happen, but I believe that a responsible government can do nothing but say that we will meet the commitments of the debt payment. Because the debts, are contracted in a situation of financial injustice or of irresoluteness on the part of the State with the Government of Catalonia..., when a government against the commitments of the debt, it has to pay them. And this government will complete its word and can give the absolute tranquillity that the tenors of the debt that belong to the Government of Catalonia would complete until the last cent to which we committed ourselves to pay. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.79.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Asks the President of the Generality about the report that reports irregularities in public works contracting procedures]] [[317-00178/11]] Eleventh question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.80.0	Thank you. Mr. President, I'd like you to look at me for a moment. [[The orator shows a document to the chamber.]] Mr President, I have at my disposal a report from Mr Junqueras' office; a report which says that the Government of Catalonia has been in the legislature of the Lord but manipulating public works contracts to promote the Convergence Group economically. We are talking about contracts worth 500_million euros. Not the People's Party, but the councillor of Mr Junqueras said it. We are talking, as the gods have said, about contracts worth 500_million euros, which presumably sailed to the Arks of Convergence while in Catalonia they were spreading education and sanitation. Mr President, my question is very specific: did you know the existence of this report which denounces these facts on behalf of the area of Mr Junqueras? If so, how do you understand that on the part of the area of Mr Junqueras this information is not immediately placed in the hands of a judge and the corresponding complaint is presented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.81.0	Thank you, Mr. García. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.82.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I think you have a great opportunity today to explain to what have been the money that your party is accused of unlawfully and for which today your president will have to give account to the courts and who you serve have ceased to lend to the Spanish citizen for the purpose of which you accused them. The Vice-President has been explicit, asking the question you have asked. This is a report that, since the month of fever, is delivered. This is a report that is prepared by the Infrastructure Management Board and starts in October 2015, under the presidency of President Mas. This is a report in which many departments of the Government of Catalonia are involved, and which, moreover, has all the operation, all the freedom, in order to analyse the reports and the tasks that were made of it, that there were no others but to analyse the contracting procedures of the two legislatures – which, of course, were the same contracting procedures as there were in the previous legislatures. And if you want to make a correct and honest use of the reports, please read them in their integrity and do not use just a few expressions to try to match some conclusions to which you do not report above.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.83.0	Thank you, President. The deputy has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.84.0	Mr President, the report is dated 25 October 2016, not a year ago. And I sincerely hoped to have better luck than my spokesperson, when I answered the questions. We have read this report carefully and in detail. And, like the vast majority of public opinion, we have been able to see that it explicitly states that the government of Mr Artur Mas manipulated public works contracts worth EUR 500_million. This is information that is not that we are transferring from the People's Party, it is information from Mr Junqueras. And to us what seems surprising and even more worrying is that, knowing the information contained in the same report, the government you preside over... I already understand that Mr Junqueras had a clear will to hide the report, surely to extract the information during the election campaign and to finish destroying in this way Convergence, but in your case we do not understand, we do not get to understand how it is possible that, having information that they were being carried out, by the previous Government of the Generalitat, these irregularities, you will not act. Mr Puigdemont, do yourself a favor and above all the Catalans: march now and call for autonomous elections. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.85.0	Thank you, Mr. García. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.86.0	Yes, thank you very much. Miri, Mr. García Albiol, if you have an interest in the report, you will see that you say exactly with these..., practically with the same words, that the changes in the scores that have been detected, that they usually occur, do not favor any particular company – no particular company. That's what this report you showed here says. Read 'lsencer', because it is a report that has allowed to incorporate some of the best about a way of working, of Generality Infrastructures, which was already very good. Because more than completing the Law on Public Sector Contracts, Infrastructures has, for some years now, been equipped with a way of acting that exceeds and is much more demanding than the same law requires, both for making contracts worth more than 2_million euros and for making contracts that range from 200,000 to 2_million euros, contracts that range from 200,000 to 200,000 and contracts under 50,000 euros. In all these assumptions, in all – without exception – Infrastructure requirements are much more demanding – much more demanding – than the Public Sector Contract Law says. And perhaps that's why, according to International Transparency, the Generality was in the position of the autonomous communities in 2012, and 2014 was in the first position: one hundred points over a hundred. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.87.0	Thank you, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about the decisions of the Board of State Guarantees regarding the Catalonia Tax Code and the reform of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure]] [[317-00180/11]] Dotzena question, to the President of the Generalitat, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.88.0	Thank you, President. Most honorable, lately since the Council of State Guarantees are developing the positions that question and that disauthorize projects from their government. After having known the strict opinion on the reform of the Rules, in which it is basically said that you cannot use the single reading for what you intend to use, that it is to approve texts and laws of a very large complexity and transcendence, another report has come up, the one concerning the reform of the Catalan Tax Code, which is also severe and is also critical with the Government's projects. I would like to ask you if, before these authoritative views come from the same Catalan institutions, you do not think about it, if you do not think about the strategy of unilateral disconnection that is being set up.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.89.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.90.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Rabell, I often meditate. I'm used to reading on my vintage and coming trips from Girona to the Palau de la Generalitat that help me meditate and reflect, because I've been doing it for many years and I hope I won't give it up. Therefore, it also makes me meditate and makes me reflect all that people empowered, people to whom I respect, whether or not I agree with your opinion, emeten. For what you do to the Board of State Guarantees, you already know that this government, in everything that is at its hand, is trying to complete to the maximum. It is a guarantee that, in addition to the requirements of the Board of State Guarantees – will we see, for example, the reform of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia –, in addition to this, also be respected? Sadly, we already have enough experience to know that this is an excuse. Because, well and complete with all the requirements of the bodies that deserve the highest respect, you approved for this Parliament, some unanimously and with broad social acceptance, have not passed the filter where you really should reflect, that is not here, Mr Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.91.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Rabell.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.92.0	Well, I don't know if it's going exactly to us or who it's going to be, to say respect. I believe that we should seek above all respect for the citizens of Catalonia and respect for democratic principles. I say it for a reason that..., the other day – I suppose we'll have a chance to talk about it now, when we debate about the crisis of government – there was an opinion that seems disturbing to me, when he said that in the measure that the Statute of Catalonia had been escaped, it would almost be as if there were no, of the Statute. Then, I find it worrying that the President of the Generality has transferred to public opinion the idea that we do not know very well whether we are under a rule or under a situation of absence of a right state. And I say this because the opinions that are being expressed, not only from the Guarantee Board, but also from the committee of letters and other authoritative voices, are giving him various things. They are saying, first, that their projects, such as the reform of the Rules, do not conform to legality, but they are also saying that they do not conform to legitimacy, in the measure that they are posing in question the right of representation and the democratic quality of the Parliament of Catalonia. And they're also telling him that he doesn't adjust to legitimize his claim to pull for the right in the measure – in the measure – that the basis on which this claim is based has not been referred to or has sufficient social support. Therefore, we are told that this interpretation of the non-legality or the diffuse legality in which we are moving is an approach that does not correspond to the responsibility that a government of the Generality should have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.93.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Rabell. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.94.0	Yeah. Mr. Rabell, I think that, when you speak or imply that this is a government that is located on the margin of the right state, you should believe it a little more solidly, because of the opportunity to question whether there are governments that are out of the right state in the Spanish government would have many, and I have never heard it question that the Spanish state is out of the right state to use, for example, the structures of the state to mount the keystrokes. I've never heard of them. Miri, legitimate..., a parliament with a majority group, with an absolute majority, after five years of mobilizations, with a perfectly clear and contrasting social and political reality, visible rout of the world..., can you question that this is not legitimate? Are you saying we're illegitimate? Are you saying that what these people want is illegitimate? Is it illegitimate for all the people who have struggled – and you know them about – to change what the laws were into mortgages? Was it illegitimate, his struggle? Was it a referendum? And, on the other hand, we all understood that there were laws or standards that were meant to be exceeded in order to achieve a greater, more legitimate good, which in this case was the right to housing. How can the right to decide, the right to vote, not be legitimate? How can you not be legitimate? How can you say this isn't a referendum? They're trying to referendum it! You, who should just be helping us to have this legitimate referendum... you can't deny that you're not referenduming. [[Greetings.]] So, listen, I, with all due respect, because I understand, I think it would be good to moderate a little bit. [[remorse of the voice]] ...,yeah,man,to moderate a mike. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.95.0	President, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.96.0	Okay. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.97.0	Tretzena question... [[Asks the President of the Generality about the balance of the parliamentary term and the commitments made in the investiture and the plan of government]] [[317-00177/11]] ...to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated for Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.98.0	Thank you, Madam President. And, in addition to this writing, in the song of moderation, I wanted to ask the President the following question. You already divided meses took possession; they said yourself that this legislature would last around meses. What's the balance of this legislature, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.99.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. The President of the Generalitat has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.100.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Iceta, indeed, from the first interview they gave me, in which I was asked about the question of the splits, I said splits, which could be technically extended a pair or opened a pair. Therefore, we are exactly – exactly – on this temporary forecast that I made from the first day and that I have not reviewed, unfortunately, for sure, the siren songs of some of you – I don't know if you, because I don't remember exactly – so as to extend the legislature or call autonomous elections. They donate to what this government said they would donate. And in any case, if you're interested in making a government action balance, with a lot of taste, then I'm in your mood to get into the detail of each of the councils. Then, when we talk about the remodeling of the government, we'll have an opportunity to do it with more detail in some of them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.101.0	Thank you, President. There's a word from Mr. Iceta.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.102.0	Thank you, President. No, I don't ask you to extend it or hide it. I tried with his predecessor and I'm not going out; so... I don't like to waste much time. But you say that what they've done is what they've done. Where's the Family Support Law? Where is the Law of Foment of Associationism? Where's the Territorial Ordination Law? Local government? Local finance? , the promotion of personal autonomy? The international adoption? The search system? The scientific mecenatge? The Electoral League? , the Law of the process constitute? , the Law of Legal Transition and the Catalan Constitution? Not to mention the Agricultural Law, Fisheries, Forestry and Food Law, the Hunting Law, the Environmental Quality Law, the Biodiversity Law, the Health and Social Law, the Law on Physical Activity and Sport, the Law on Police, Emergencies and Civil Protection... And it could reach up to a forty-year of compromised and unsubmitted laws and plans. Perhaps you will tell me that the legislature is exceptional and that, therefore, it cannot be held accountable as in the case of an ordinary legislature, but it is that I am asking you to account for your commitments, the commitments you made in the investiture debate, about everything that only depends on you, because I don't find examples in the Government of Spain – which surely there is also some law that you haven't made – but... they ask you to account for your responsibility. You may say to me that the object of the legislature was another: independence in divout_mesos, which has not arrived, "if I hurry up, for now, or the celebration of a referendum that was no longer on the electoral agenda, but certainly you, after being unable to approve the assumptions, have made a question of confidence in which they reformulated their political agenda. Therefore, I believe that we are, from the narrow balance of that to which you have committed, both in the electoral program and in the investment speech and in the Pla de Govern, before a failure. And, therefore, I would like to end, Mr President, knowing if, in view of things, you think that you should govern a more stable place, to see if you would stick a little bit to the commitments made, if you really started your own political course, as it used to be so far, with the debate on the general political orientation of the Government. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.103.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.104.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Iceta. Most of the laws that you have stated are either approved by the government or are in memory or are in government custody. You don't hold us accountable to the government for what's no longer the government, but the parliament. Miri: twenty-two drafts of the law; nine decrees of the law; twenty-seven preliminary memoranda, of which the draft of the law has come to fruition, and they are in the process of developing the draft of the law. I can list all the laws that this government – the government – has approved – the government –, all the pre-projects, all the memories that they have to see exactly with many of these laws, with the majority not to mention the totality of what you find to be lacking as approved laws. Parliament must do its job. But do you know what happens when some of these people want to be approved in Parliament? That they are found with opposition groups that bring them to the Constitutional, and with groups that threaten that: "If you bring them here, we will still extend the complaint that has been presented, for example, by the Bureau of Parliament. Then they go and find that these laws have not been dealt with or have not been brought to Parliament. [[Some applause.]] Miri, the government is filling in. I will pass you the list of all the laws that this Government... I see that you have not done a proper follow-up, of the Government's activity; I could do so, because it is easy, because it is transparent, because it is published, but I will make it the copy of all the laws that this Government has approved – of decrees, memoranda, foregrounds – and you will see how in these divided times the Government has completed with credence with what was compromised. But you asked me... at the first part of your question, I thought you valued me in ugly. I've said it many times... when I'm asked for an appreciation in those terms, we'll do it at the end of the legislature, when we can't get past the balance. In front of whom? In front of the citizens. And we can clearly explain to them, looking at them in the eye, that everything you've been saying for a year and a half, that this government was only working for the process, not just false, but dishonest. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.105.0	Thank you very much, President. [[Ask the President of the Generality about not appearing in Parliament to talk about corruption]] [[317-00176/11]] Fourteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated for Mrs Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.106.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, corruption is citizens' second concern, and recent events and information only increase this concern. We have asked for your appearance to come to Parliament expressly to talk about corruption. Will you come this time, Mr. Puigdemont?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.107.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.108.0	Madame Arrimadas, I'm already taking over the Parliament. I don't know if I've just seen it, but I already know it, and I'm answering all the questions you ask me. And whenever the parliamentary groups agree that I have to appear, I will appear; I have never declined an invitation from a parliamentary group of the Catalan Parliament that I would formally like to compare to the Parliament. In fact, I will do so on my own request, in a few minutes' time, when I will appear to explain the remodeling of the Government.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.109.0	Thank you, President. I have the word "la maseñora Arrimadas".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.110.0	Thank you, Mr. Puigdemont. You have a government partner who is a chollo, who blocks you from appearances to talk here about stealing and corruption. In addition, do you believe that, with the one that is falling in cases of corruption..., you dispatch it with two and a half minutes of a question, of which in two always speaks of the PP, of Madrid or of the Government of Spain? Corruption is a big problem for Catalans, and we want you to come and talk, face up, explain without haste. We have asked seven times for your appearance – seven – and you didn't want to come, because you don't like to talk about corruption; you only do it when you have no other remedy, when you're forced into control sessions. And the only thing you're right to say is that, well, 'we've put in a Transparency Adviser, a Counsellor who's been reprimanded by the Bureau of Parliament itself, where you have a majority, for not giving information. That's the only measure you can say, because you don't have any other. Look, your party has a lot of corruption, like the People's Party, but do you know what the People's Party doesn't have? A collo of government partner like Esquerra. Esquerra presents herself... [[Widow's remorse.]] Yeah, yeah, yeah, you guys are gonna laugh...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.111.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.112.0	Esquerra is a chollo for the corruption of Convergence : it is presented in the same list of 3_per_cent, it shares government seats with the party of 3_per_cent, it does not place as a requirement neither a single measure to fight against corruption, it hides information about rigged contracts of the Generalitat, it blocks the appearances of its president to talk about corruption and it blocks the commissions of inquiry. You needed two things, to cover up the corruption of Convergence: a flag and a collo partner. And there they have the stellate and Mr. Junqueras. And the situation is scandalous: former advisers of the Generalitat accused or accused of corruption; execsors of his party singing The Traviata and confirming the 3_per_cent in the courts; Oriol Pujol, the right hand of Mas, who has accepted two and a half years for the ITV case, for stealing Catalans. And how are you going to fight corruption, Mr Puigdemont? How are you going to convince the Catalans that you are going to fight, if you either deny that there is corruption or speak of 'and you more with the People's Party or hide behind your partner, Mr Junqueras? Fortunately, your government has little time left, and in Catalonia I am convinced that we are going to have a new government: a clean government, that doesn't have corruption backpacks like you; a government that doesn't have a partner that doesn't care about shame, and a government that has a project for all Catalans, within Spain and within Europe. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.113.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. There's the president's word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.114.0	Mrs. Arrimadas, to this final sentence I failed another, which is: "We come back after the publicity [[relays]] because the spot you just made, electoral, I don't know if it's exactly what you're supposed to do in a Parliament of Catalonia. Miri, it's clear that corruption worries; and so much, that worries. What I explained to him before Infrastructures made it time to have some contract criteria that go much further than the Public Sector Contract Law says, that's not looking at another band. Now, that's magic, because you only care about corruption when you can make fireworks. A further parliamentary group has been short-sighted if we do not exactly complement what the institutions, the organs say... You have just said that it is a chollo – a chollo – when the Bureau of Parliament considers that it does not have to compare the President of Catalonia, because when the Bureau of Parliament says something that they do not like, then they criticize it, it is a chollo and less so, and, in turn, when the same Bureau of Parliament takes a reprobation agreement, they raise it to the altar of transparency. They're a little more respectful of institutions and their agreements. I'm a big knocker. And so, when you compare, you compare. Miri, you make a whole revolution that you don't give for more. The tick that you're stretching has broken like seven times, and you're still thinking that it can chew again; it doesn't like anything anymore, it's broken seven times. The other day you must be very happy here, when the Civil Guard entered. Jo was hoping. Dic: "The Civil Guard finally came in to demand the actions of the appearance of all those who have come to explain the corruptions that exist to the police of the State to the commission of investigation of the Parliament of Catalonia. And I thought, "Finally, someone has listened to us. [[applause]] And they came to ask for all the documentation, scandalous, shameful, scandalous and shameful documentation, of people who came here, who explained with people and signs in which way they did neither corruption in the structure of the Ministry of the Interior. And I thought that finally some prosecutor, some judge, some cop, would have said to him: "It's true, they said very thick things. Let's see, ask what happens. Sad – sad –, has not been for this reason, but to contribute to a game. Collaboration, all; transparency, all. Now, collaboration to participate in games, not one. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.115.0	Thank you, President. [[Question to the President of the Generality about the twenty-five years of the Olympic Games in Barcelona and the willingness to decide the future by means of a similar state]] [[317-00181/11]] Fifteenth question, to the President of the Generality, on the political situation, formulated by Mr Lluís Corominas, of the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.116.0	Thank you, President. Very honorable president, yesterday we commemorated the twenty-five years of the Olympic Games celebration, and when these historical views are made..., they serve precisely to make an accurate balance of what happened. And we can conclude that, on a solid basis, the Olympic Games were an instrument of transformation, with positive indicators and with negative indicators. The solid foundations: the embargo, the illusion, the vision of the future of President Maragall; also a courageous decision of the International Olympic Committee, making Barcelona the candidate before other capitals that were of state, and not Barcelona. Also a civil society and a government of the Generality on the side, at all times, of these Olympic Games. A transformative instrument that obviously made a different society at the economic, urban, social level, and also promoted collective self-esteem, with a willingness to teach the world how we were and how we were, and a way of doing and being. And some positive indicators: it was the first time that they coincided with the Special Olympics – the Paralympics – and this inclusive society, this inclusive society, was also able to teach the world. Also the volunteers; which contradicts: so much so that yesterday, and that they are already pre-emptively persecuted by the Spanish State, that they want to entangle them if they participate in the referendum. Also, twenty-five years later, the continuity of infrastructures and installations, different from what has happened in many other cases. But there were also shadows: Operation Garzón, with forty-five detainees, said to be tortured, and a 2004 judgment of the European Court of Human Rights against the Spanish State; speculative urbanism, which today would not fit our society. Also the intention of sparing this event, which he did not choose, did not succeed because there was an identity component to teach the world how we are, and this is perfectly compatible with this opening all over the world. This ephemeral that we commemorated yesterday held the presence of the king and also of the government. Today, just as it was twenty-five years ago, there are no more, and what remains today is also a Catalan society with the will to transform itself in the face of the future socially, economically, but, above all, also politically; with the will to democratically decide our future. President, what value has it made these past twenty-five years, but above all posed to today, with this will of our society to be able to decide our future through its own state?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.117.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Reply by the President of the Generality.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.118.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr. Corominas, good morning, and congratulations on your new responsibility. Indeed, yesterday we had the opportunity, with a very, very direct compromise of the Government of the Generality, to commemorate these first twenty-five years of the Olympic Games in Barcelona. We realized that we represent a majority feeling at the people of Catalonia and beyond, and so on. They were great games; in fact, they were the best games in history. And I think it's absolutely justified, it's legitimate and it's a sign of dignity, that in it we want to make a recognition, and that with the motivation of this recognition we remember people who have been instrumental because this was a success: Mayor Maragall; President Juan Antoni Samaranch, of the IOC; the CEO of COOB, Josep Miquel Abad; so many people, volunteers, who contributed decisively because the games were truly a success. That, on the side of the lights, the lights that are still there. But the lights can't cover the shadows, and it's true that there were shadows at that time, and there's still shadows there today that we have a duty also to clean up. More than that, precisely, because the strength of the recognition of success that we can still recognize all the shadows that there was in that event, because the debt, when we have to aspire again to great events of this type, we have them present. In the first place, there was what was called an Olympic peace, which, in fact, was a very kind, politically correct way of saying a self-censorship. It was very hard, those days, and I in soc witnesses of the first hand; it was very hard that at the end of a few years they carried another extremely difficult fact that should be especially shamed those who feel Spanish patriots, which is a condemnation – a condemnation – to the Spanish State for the European courts not to investigate the tortures of independenceists. And that was the year 92, a few days before the celebration of the Olympic Games Enchantment. It also passed an absolute indolence before the great urban speculation that broke down. Transformation, yes; well, also; that, moreover, opened a city to the world that today is one of the world's demands in the concert of the cities, and owes it to that wonderful project of the Olympic Games. But it's also true that he opened the door to a sequence of speculations that there wasn't the requirement enough to meet the negative effects and externalities. What's left of us, of such a shared claim, of that moment? The Olympic expert. The Olympic expert finds it very much missing, because it was possible that different governments, without toilets and without harm, are in agreement for a very difficult object. We have tried: applied to politics, the Olympic experiment would be the agreed reference, a reference in which governments on one side and on the other, with no toilets, agree to a project that transcends the generation. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.119.0	Thank you, President. Before going to the next point of the day, I am sure that, in accordance with Rule 81.3 of the Rules of Procedure, and until the Bureau has agreed to the admission to transit of Decree Law 4/2017 of 18 July 2017 amending the better system of the economic performance of temporary incapacity of staff to the service of the Administration of the Generality, its public sector and the Catalan public universities, the proposal to extend the order of the day so that this new point may be included, related to the validation of the decree. Can we approve this enlargement by consent? [[Pause.]] So, then, it is included, this new point, in the order of the day. I'm guessing the substance we're going to say later today, at the end of point 5. [[Comparison of the President of the Generality to account for changes in the composition of the Government]] [[350-00004/11]] The next item on the agenda is the appearance of the President of the Generality before Parliament to account for changes in the composition of the Government. In accordance with Rule 169 of the Rules of Procedure, and at the request of the President of the Generality to appear before the House of Commons, I give the word to the President, the very Honourable Mr Carles Puigdemont.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.120.0	Many honourable Speaker of the Parliament of Catalonia, members of the Government, ladies and gentlemen, is the appearance I asked to make in order to give account, also before the Parliament, of the composition of the new Government of the Generalitat, not only because it is a requirement of agreement with the Law of the Presidency of the Generalitat and the Government, but also because it forms part, also, of my willingness to do so, of my commitment to give the explanations that they have. I would like to begin my intervention expressing my gratitude to the councillors who have left the Government: Councillor Neus Munté, Councillor Meritxell Ruiz and Councillor Jordi Jané, as well as to the Secretary of the Government, Mr. Joan Vidal, for his work during all these years; work at the service of the country, work done with absolute fidelity to the President, the Government and the citizen of Catalonia. As I said the day I announced the change of government, the outgoing advisors have always characterized themselves for a deep sense of public service, and their decision to take a step at the side is the definitive proof of a guided action for the ethics of responsibility. I have already said, and I repeat here, in your parliamentary office, that I have not made the decision to stop anyone. There was no such thing as a cease-fire. There was only reason for thanking all the councillors and the Secretary of the Government, for all their services, for this joy and for this courage. From here, a sense of gratitude and recognition to all of them. And the best recognition will be to do the balance of labor for the two outgoing advisors, which is the best argument against unjust, harmful or demagogic toilets. They've done a good job. They have had as absolute priority the Plan of Government that approved this Parliament, and they have always done so by giving their face. I'll make a balance after I introduce our advisors who have taken over the cargo. To them, to the incoming advisors, I also want to thank the willingness, the willingness to serve, the ability to take on commitments and sacrifices. The new Councillor of the Presidency, Jordi Turull, the new Councillor of Education, Clara Ponsatí, the new Councillor of Interior, Joaquim Forn, and the new Secretary of the Government, Victor Cullell, incorporate – you – into the Government in a legislature that, in effect, is ready to finish, at an extraordinary time of accession but at the same time very complex, at a time of a monumental offensive by land, sea and air on the part of the institutions of the Spanish State and of all its instruments, the legal and the illegal; a time that requires a great dose of compromise, of willfulness, knowledge and capacity, the attributes of which have been given – you have taken away from your Government's leadership in the course of your confirmation. Counselor Turull was born in Parets in 1966. He is a law graduate of the Autonomous University of Barcelona; he has been director of the Parets del Vallès Assembly, deputy of the Diputation of Barcelona and manager of the Incavol de la Generalitat de Catalunya. Also, since the 96th, Member of the Parliament of Catalonia, and since 2004_has been spokesman and chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Convergence and Union and chairman of the Parliamentary Group of Joints for the Yes. Professionally he has served as a lawyer, as secretary intervener in various joints and as manager of the Sant Cugat del Vallès joint. Conseller Clara Ponsatí – Barcelona, 1957 – is a PhD in economics for the University of Minnesota. He directed the School of Economics and Finance to the University of Saint Andrews, Scotland, and formed part of the Institute of Economic Analysis of the UAB and Barcelona GSE. Their search camps have been game theory, negotiation and conflict resolution. She has also been a professor at other prestigious universities, such as Georgetown, Toronto and San Diego, in the United States, and led the Institute of Economic Analysis of the Higher Council of Scientific Research between 2006 and 2012. And, in addition, he has published a number of academic articles and books on economics. Councillor Joaquim Forn – Barcelona, 1964– is licensed in law for the University of Barcelona - Abat Oliba, director of the Barcelona Assembly since the year 99 for the Municipal Group of Convergence and Union – until July 2017. In his stage of governorship to the Catalan capital he was linked to the districts of Ciutat Vella, Eixample, Sants-Montjuïc and Nou Barris, and occupied the areas of Presidency, Security, Prevention, Coexistence and Mobility. At this stage, from 2007 until 2011, was also the spokesman of the Municipal Group of Convergence and Union to the Assembly of Barcelona. The year 11 was named the first mayor of the Presidency, Home Rule, Security and Mobility. In its responsibility for maximum responsibility for security, mobility and prevention policies, it promoted, among others, the operation of Xarxa on the Barcelona metro – with a reduction of 15_percent of the crimes to the suburbs–, the sanitation of the Rambles, the incorporation of the first electric vehicles in the Urban Guardia, the creation of the Commission of the Dona to the Urban Guardia, the creation of the Platges Unit in front of the incivism and guarantee the tranquility and security to the platges of the city, the content of the "top manta" – with a discreet presence in the commercial and tourist zones –, the increase of the endowments of the Urban Guardia and of Bombers, the director of the Bomber House of the Park in Barcelona. It is fixed that, in the description of the brief biography of the new advisors, there is accredited the abilities, responsibility, experience that requires not only the Government of the Generality, but the moment that it sees this country. Let me make them a balance and also a compromise of continuity of this balance, because this balance was inspired – I said it, and I did not lose sight of it – in the governance platform approved by this Parliament of Catalonia, and what we must advise ourselves on as long as this responsibility is taken over by this governance platform. I didn't lose sight of it, although I'm sure many of you would be tempted to do the opposite. Let's do the same thing we announced to the 2016 generation. Let me make them a first balance, therefore, of the Department of the Presidency, on the main axes: cross-cutting policies, dona policies, communication policies, diffusion and citizen attention, sport and telecommunications and digital society. At the time of the Consellera Munté, in cross-cutting policies it reached the third support platform to the third social sector. Specifically, on July 25th of the 16th – it is said, one year ago – was presented the third plan, which is thirty-two measures grouped into six areas; a third plan that reverses the renewal of the government's commitment to entities in the third social sector. Under this umbrella, the Government and the table work on the implementation of various projects in different areas of intervention, some of the most prominent of which are the following: to this end, we support social entities, to the compliment of their legal obligation of transparency, through the implementation and the improvement of technological tools. Also, in collaboration with Ivàlua, we facilitate tools for the evaluation of projects in the third social sector, and the Practical Guide for the evaluation of programmes in the third social sector has been presented. In this brand, too, of the third stage, another axis, which is to boost the participation of this third social sector in social policies. In this context, it is worth highlighting the collaboration agreement between the Table and the Department of Justice to encourage the participation of entities in social inclusion policies, prison social inclusion policies and post-penitentiaries. We also highlight the cooperation agreement between the table and the Department of Governance – Habitatge, in this case – that has allowed the cessation, to date, of 331 habitats to the entities of the third social sector, of the five hundred that are planned. It should also be noted that the Generalitat has doubled in five years the economic aid to entities that manage housing for vulnerable communities and that form part of the Social Insertation Housing Network. In concrete terms, it has gone from a contribution of 1,073_million euros in 2012 to 2,180_million euros in 2016, and the forecast for this 2017, a completed date, will be allocated to 3,551_million euros, expandable to almost 4,4_million more. We highlight, also in this context, the information sessions by the ICF to entities on financing instruments, as well as the support in the development of resource mobilization campaigns, as well as the definition of a joint strategy between the Government and the table to claim the transfer – you must remember – of the 0.7_per_cent of the IRPF. In this same area of the third support platform for the third social sector, another example is the best of the model of publicsocial collaboration. In this sense, the most outstanding action is the work to make effective the transposition of directives 2014/23 and 2014/24 of the European Union, which must allow to establish a specific regime for the contracting and concertation of services to people. Also, another is in this area... giving support to entities in innovation processes, in internationalization and in competitive improvement. We highlight, in this sense, the collaboration with the table of a community, RIS3CAT, to promote public procurement of innovation, and also the participation of the Generality in digital transformation projects of the Table of the Third Sector: the project mHealth, led by TicSalut, and the M4Social project, of the table. And finally, in this area of the third level of the third social sector, among the cross-cutting policies of the Department of the Presidency, under the leadership of the Councillor Munté, we also tried to strengthen social recognition by citizens and businesses. In this context, I would like to highlight the Community service programme for the Institutes, which has developed in recent years and which in this area aims to enhance and expand universities. Another of the cross-cutting policies developed for the Councillor Munté has been the Care Plan for people with mental disorders and addictions. Specifically, the strategy 2017-2019 was presented on March 13th, a strategy that has twenty-nine objectives and more than seventy actions oriented towards promotion, prevention and attention to mental health and addictions. During 2016, more than €500 million was allocated to mental health, and a significant increase was expected in the 2017 budget. With this plan, among others, attention to childhood and adolescence, we are betting for community care and support for families, we are giving a strong boost to employment strategies and we are improving attention in the judicial and prison spheres. The integral plan is the tool that coordinates the efforts in mental health that are made by the different administrations: Generality, local world and professionals of the different networks. We work with the entities of the mental health sector, service providers, professionals, family members and first-person entities with the collaboration of expert organizations of the academic world and of the Social Work "the Box". A Catalunya som model of reference in mental health. The Community model of mental health care in some of our territories, in fact, is a reason for international recognition. Also, in the work done for the Constellera Munté, the recommendations for assistance to people with limited intellectual function have been highlighted in this area of cross-cutting policies. Specifically, on May 26, 17, the document developed for the departments of the Generality and external professional experts was presented. The aim has been to develop a set of recommendations, pioneering recommendations at international level, to improve social, educational, occupational and health integration in the care of people with limited intellectual functioning. The recommendations stand out in the following areas: improving early detection, which should be intended to be produced at a first stage; confirming the FIL diagnosis, they understand that at these times it is not considered a mental health diagnosis; defining the individual intervention plea in all stages of the person's life with FIL – social and health care, professional and scope of intervention, concretion of the individual intervention plea, support for the family, etc. – and ensuring inter-departmental and inter-professional coordination in the care of persons with FIL and also in situations of greater complexity, and, in these cases, the forecast of areas of coordination between the professionals involved. In the field, too, of cross-cutting policies, as you know, the Hourly Reform Pact has been promoted, a pact with institutions, political parties and agents involved in different fields, such as trade, work, sanitation, culture and the eye, audiovisual and education. This agreement is the result of a compromise to achieve what is called Objective 2025, which must allow Catalonia, its own years, to equip ourselves with a series of European indicators and thus enable people to live with more rational and healthier times. The Hourly Reform Pact is the result of three and a half years of expert work and the agreement of all agents involved in different fields, such as trade, administration, work, sanitation, culture or education. Also approved, in the framework of the performance led by Constellera Munté, the Regulatory Simplification Plan 2017-2018. The government that presides is concerned about the complexity of a legal order that continues to grow. Admit it: there is an excess of standards, we continue to adopt them and we do not repeal them enough. For this reason, and thinking of the citizens and also thinking of the product fabric of the country, because companies also make many complaints to us in this sense, the Government has promoted a systematic review of our order. The first result has been to inventory the law formally in force, more than 23,000 laws, decrees and orders – most of which, of course, are no longer applicable, but to determine that there is a sequence of legal interpretations. In order to provide certainty and to be able to debug those obsolete or tacitly derogated standards, a systematic express derogation pocket was initiated, starting with the standards with law rank. Of the 624 in force in 2016, 185 standards have been repealed, i.e. higher than the whole period between the years 1977-2015, in which only 142 will be repealed. And it has continued with the regulatory standards: 440 decrees and orders of the organizational scope have been expressly repealed, taking advantage of the structural decree of the departments. More than five thousand decrees and orders adopted between 1979 and 1985 have also been reviewed, and it has been proven that only a hundred of these dispositions, five thousand – one hundred –, would be applied in the present, and, therefore, is now working in the most appropriate way to repeal them expressly. And, at the same time, it continues with the ambitious and ingenious task of analysing the rest of the existing decrees and orders, which are 17,617. Therefore, having a certain and clear legal framework is essential to increase legal security, improve institutional quality and strengthen the confidence of businesses and citizens. For what it does to one of the other important areas of the Presidency Councillor who has been under the leadership of the Councillor Munté, the women's policies, it should be remembered that the Government has constituted the Observer of the Igualtat de Genère, an organ adviser to contribute to the knowledge of the situation of women and to improve public policies. In September, precisely, the first constitutive meeting of the Observer of the Igualtat de Genère will take place, the organ that has, as I said, the purpose of contributing to the knowledge of the situation of women so that we can make decisions, we can plan and we can evaluate public policies from a perspective of gender and women. Admitted to the Institut Català de les Dones, which was created for the Law 17/2015, of 21 July, of effective equality of women and men, is one of the measures to guarantee the compliment of that law and to achieve effective equality between men and women. Among the functions to be developed is the design of a system of indicators to know, in an up-to-date way, the evolution of gender inequalities and to determine the reasons for its persistence; to promote the elaboration of studies and reports, especially in the areas of male violence, the work situation and the public image of women, and to follow up on the image and stereotypes of the representation of women and the banalization of male violence to communication media. The observer will have to propose to the Government the actions he considers adient in order to correct situations of gender inequality or male violence, and will analyse the impact on the policies of the public administrations of Catalonia on gender equality. The Catalan Institute of Donations, the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia have also signed an interinstitutional agreement to promote gender equality and to combat male violence in the local world. In this sense, the Institute, the Association and the Federation have signed an agreement to encourage the joint work of the Government and also of local authorities to implement public policies clearly intended to advance in the effective equality of women and men in the struggle against male violence. The agreement, which was materialized through a new programme contract from 2017 to 2019, establishes cooperation and collaboration in these areas between the Catalan Institute of Donations, the gatherings of more than twenty-one thousand inhabitants and the regional arrest councils of Catalonia, as well as the consolidation, updating and improvement of the information services and attention to the women both for what it does to the provision of the services as to their financing. I have to tell you that the agreement for special attention to the municipalities of less than twenty thousand inhabitants, with specific resources and direct technical support from the Catalan Institute of Donations, and reinforces, through statistical data, the attention of women with a new information tool, which is called Hipatia, that the institute makes available to local authorities, to everyone. The Government has also approved the multiannual import for the co-financing of the hundred and two programme contracts in the area of equality policies with groups of more than twenty thousand inhabitants and local councils. This import represents an increase of 5.17_per_cent and guarantees financing by the Institute of more than 12_million euros to local authorities up to the year 2020. And this service, this increase, is due to the entry into operation of two of us for information and attention to the women: that of Vilasar de Mar – a population that has exceeded twenty thousand inhabitants – and that of the new County Council of Moianès. In 2016, the SIAD cents of Catalonia practically made 89,000 attentions that demanded a total of 26,235 donations. A new version was launched last May 2017, which is an initiative of the Català de los Dones Institute to highlight women's talent and the contributions of women in all professional and knowledge environments. Since the announcement of the new version, more than three hundred new professional profiles have been donated, and it currently counts with 731 high-denominated experts linked to a range of more than 175 professions and 211 expert camps, and this search engine calls for two thousand monthly visits. The Catalan Institute of Donations and the Dona Observers, Company and Economy, of the Chamber of Commerce of Barcelona, also put at the bottom of the companies a tool that will enable them to enhance management teams and boards of administration with a balanced presence of men and women. It is a platform containing a database of advisors' data and guidelines with a profile that responds to the integrated set of knowledge, skills, skills and attitudes. The tool addresses the women who are required to apply to join the management teams and management boards, as well as the businesses and organizations that want to incorporate this female talent, taking into account the most suitable leadership profiles. The tool, in this sense, wants to help private and public organizations and businesses to complement the Law 17/2015, to which I have already referred, of effective equality of women and men. Also the Pla director of training in gender equity of Catalonia 2017-2020 is a tool that will allow to impregnate public administrations of gender cross-cutting and convert this innovative look into the normality of public work of the 21st century, as recommended by the previously stated law, which establishes, among others, that the Administration must develop the necessary dispositions to award the application of the cross-cutting of the gender perspective to the organs of the departments of the Administration of the Generality, to the autonomous bodies and to the public bodies bound or bound. The plan, as you know, includes actions addressed both to the different departments of the Generality and to the local authorities and the entities working with them. As for communication, dissemination and citizen attention, I have to tell you that it has been restored – already they must have noticed – the reciprocity of broadcasts with IB3 and that it is working to do so also with Valencian television when this is operational, as is the agreement between the different governments. On the other hand, the Government's Twitter Handbook has been developed, which brings technology and ideas to government institutions and public administrations to act in a coherent and effective way in this social network. The book shows some emblematic cases of the Generality's presence on Twitter that allow us to know better the digital media and the uses of this public conversation that improves the relationship between Administration and civil society and that impacts internally also in the administrations. I want to remind you that this Government to Twitter Handbook was officially endorsed by the same social network, the same Twitter. As for sport, I want to remind them – because it has not been easy, and here I also want to thank the collaboration we have had from other administrations – the investment in the work of the Palau d'Esports de Tarragona for the 2018 Mediterranean Games. This was a government compromise and that the councilwoman Munté has defended with a special interest. It may be worth noting the efforts made by the Government of the Generality, also through the Secretary General of the Sport, to complete the agreements with the Assembly of Tarragona and the Higher Sports Council for the celebration of the 2018 Mediterranean Games, with an import of 20_million euros. I remember: building the pavilion, 15,600,000 in the first, the second and third phases plus the project; 2,800,000 in the fourth phase – therefore, 18,500,000 in the organization –; contributed to the Tarragona Foundation 2017, 1,400,000 in multiannual differences. In this sense, activities related to the commemoration of another sporting event, in this case – I made reference before, in questions of the control session – to the commemoration of the twenty-five anniversary of the Olympic Games. The General Secretary of Sport, through the Català de l'Esport Council, has a commitment to celebrate the twenty-five anniversary of the 1992 Olympic and Paralympic Games in harmony with the rest of the administration, and this is why a joint programme with different actions has been developed to celebrate, throughout this year, all this event with the support of the cities that have been supported. Yesterday they commemorated the twenty-five years of the Olympic and Paralympic organization, which coincided with the 30 years of the CAR, the Centre d'Alt Rendiment de Sant Cugat. There were international Catalan sportsmen who formed in the CAR, and there were also representatives of the fifteen Olympic subses of Barcelona 92 and of all the sports federations that have worked at the CAR from all walks, both Catalan and state and international. It has also worked on the basis of the participatory process to develop the national pact for physical activity and sport, with the intention of establishing a dialogue with the different agents related to physical activity and sport in Catalonia, in order to contribute to the design of the new model of governance of Catalan sport, which is based on two priority objectives: to build a healthier society in which the practice of physical activity becomes a daily habit and throughout the life of people, and, second, to become a country of success with better results at international level. The participatory process ended in mid-July, and is now in the review and drafting phase of the pact. There has also been a contribution of more than one hundred athletes to the Olympic and Paralympic Games in Rio de Janeiro, with the absolutation of multiple Olympic medals and diplomas which, moreover, have been well-recognized by the Government of the Generality. In telecommunications and digital society, I want to remind you – all of which is very recent, and therefore all of you must remember – of the adoption of the Law of Creation of the Catalan Cybersecurity Agency to address the risks and threats of the digital society, the result of the legislative initiative of the department. The law was approved with the vote in favour of Junts per el Si, of the Socialist Party, of Catalunya Yes it is Pot, with the abstentions of the CUP and the People's Party, and with the vote against the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. The government is currently focusing on inn work at this agency's expense. The Stemcat and Bitbot plans were also approved. and to encourage technological vocations to our educational system and the impulse of extra-curricular programming and robotics activities. The government, in this sense, approved the creation of the inter-departmental commission on the month of February, with the task of creating the Stemcat plan. The government has concluded its work, and the plan's conclusions have been shared with the educational community and ICT specialist, and the owners will ratify, on behalf of the government, an agreement of the executive. This plan develops the actions to be carried out to ensure that all students can complete, during primary education, the basic skills needed to be, more than consumers, creators of technological solutions in the digital society. The Bitbot program. Cat, from its inception – October 2016–, has had a total of 6,591 children and children users of the activities offered in the program, and there are 834 educational centres offering activities in this program. The Research and Innovation Programme in Advanced Digital Technologies has been promoted, with a budget of €10 million associated with the RIS3CAT insertion plan – for example, the Catlab network. In the last tranche of 2017 – therefore, the last tranche of enguany – the phase of defining the needs of each of the departments that integrate the program will be completed, and the basis for launching the public research and innovation bid will be defined as a solution to the challenges and needs of the departments. This will promote innovation and the search for new technologies that can be made available to the market. We have signed the national pact to promote the development of the Catalan digital society, and since its signature, the working sessions of the five strands of the pact have been set up and carried out: intelligent territories, electronic communications infrastructures, digital administration, cybersecurity and the industrial internet. The conclusions were presented and shared in an open meeting with the sector and the social agents involved – also with the political groups in the Parliament of Catalonia – and in territorial meetings with each of the members of Catalonia. The conclusions and measures of the pact will finally be formalised in an act which will take place on the next week. There has also been an explicit support for initiatives such as Mobile World Capital, the Internet of Things Congress and the Smart City Expo World Congress. The support and the bet for these events have been key and have been instrumental because Catalonia can become a digital hub of international reference, without any doubt, without any reservation. In the twelve years of history of the Mobile World Congress or the six years of the Smart City Expo, more than a million ICT experts have passed through our home. And that's why the government is working to make these congresses a success, but above all they are useful and well-off for the Catalan business fabric, which benefits considerably from the country's ability to retain the celebration of events from this trip to our home. It has also led to the creation of a digital identity Catalan service to make it easier and secure the management of the network. And we work, in this sense, in the development of this system, a verified identification system of Catalonia, and the own months will present the technical details for its deployment and its implementation. There has also been, this year, a deployment of electronic communications infrastructures. We have received the optical fiber held by the Government of Catalonia..., among which is the finalization of the cablejat of all the Transversal eix, the C-25, from Cervera to Vilobí d'Onyar ; the Diagonal eix, the C-15, between Igualada, Vilafranca del Penedès and Vilanova and the Geltrú ; the finish to the regions of Segria, Baix Empordà, the Alt Empordà, the Selva maritime, the Ripollès, the Pallars Sobirá and the Pallars Just. It is obvious that, also under the responsibility of the Constellera Munté, Catalonia has seen reinforced the SmartCAT strategy to give response to the new challenges of digital Catalonia. The government has given a new impetus to the strategy, which was approved two years ago with the aim of positioning Catalonia in the face of the digital revolution in which we find ourselves immersed and turning it into a smart country of international reference. And the agreement has provided smart strategy in four areas of action: a program to promote technological vocations between women and young people, a research and innovation program in advanced digital technologies, a big country-date program of the Government of Catalonia and a technological platform for smart country in Catalonia. In continuity with all these actions and in the last few weeks, in which the political direction of the department has been assumed by Councillor Turull, has been signed– therefore, see that there is a continuity between that compromise contract in the Parliament, the work done by the Councillor and the work carried out by the Councillor Turull from the first day of his responsibility – the agreement of collaboration between the Government of the Generality and the ONCE, agreed to develop joint activities to promote the inclusion of persons with disabilities in areas such as employment, universal accessibility, education, innovation and social responsibility, among others. The signing, also, of the Pact for Hourly Reform, which I have already discussed, has been completed, and the Government has approved, with Councillor Turull, the March Protocol against the Abuse of Children and Adolescents in Catalonia, which aims to optimize and improve the care of children and adolescents victims of any ill-treatment by means of coordinated and effective intervention of the departments of the Generality, to the extent possible, and of the remainder of the administration, so as to address both detection with care and recovery. And what do you expect? So, mirin, is planning to convene the first meeting of the Observer of Igualtat de Genère, as I have advanced before. Now we wanted to approve, in a government agreement, the decree of the Observers of Igualtat de Genère, and during the month of September this first meeting will be convened, which will serve to determine indicators, statistics..., all relating to the situation of women in our country. And during the month of September we will be in a position to present the second issue of male violence, which must allow us to donate figures and results on the impact of male violence on women in Catalonia. It is co-financed for the Català de les Dones Institute, the Social Work « la Caixa, the Department of Interior and the Barcelona Assembly. There will also be the program contract of the Catalan Audiovisual Mitjans Corporation. Currently the program contract is already drawn up with the consent of all the agents involved, who are the corporate and the Department of the Presidency, and has sent to the Department of Economy, which has passed its observations to us, and has just adapted the document to the effects of being able to sign it also this September. And finally, for what he does in the area of the councillor and who has now assumed the councillor Turull, the government has planned to give the basis for a national audiovisual pact, a document of minimum bases after more than a year of discussions with the sector and which is, indeed, a starting point for the government to know all the opinions of all the agents linked to this sector, which, as you know, has just been, a few days ago, another letter of congratulations from the Constitutional Court that deprives it of resources that are very well funded in order to promote all the policies that we already have, together, to push forward. For what it does to the Department of Education, which has been under the responsibility of Councillor Ruiz, and which, like the Councillor Munté, has done with this diligence, this rigour, this joy, this exemplaryness, of which I want to do the very thing and which I would like to thank precisely for what has been a reality under her responsibility, and that Councillor Posatí also enthusiastically returns, in the first place, I believe that it is justified that we highlight, if we speak of Education, the best of the results of the education system: in Catalonia the education system has improved. ESO's graduation rate increased from 82_per_cent in 2009-2010 to 88_per_cent in 2014-15. It's a better one. Early school drop-out fell from 24,2_per_cent in 2012 to 18_per_cent in 2016; another improvement. ESO quarter repeaters have increased from 9_per_cent in the 2009-2010 course to less than 6_per_cent for the first time in the 2014-2015 course, which is certainly the lowest repetition rate in the entire Spanish State. The rate of fitness at 15 years has increased from 70.3 in course 10-11 to 77.6 in course 15-16. And since 2003, evaluation tests have improved the results of all assessed subjects and reduced the percentage of students who do not meet basic skills. The latest PISA results show the best: for the first time Catalonia is located above the Spanish midfielder, the European Union and the OECD in the three evaluated competitions. And the population of twenty-and-four years with post-compulsory secondary studies was in 2016 at 73.8_per_cent, fourteen points higher than in 2008. For what it does to measures driven by the department in this legislature, I also want to highlight the following. First of all, the implementation of the competitive learning model, i.e. the introduction of the new system of primary competitive assessment at the end of this course, and are about to implement ESO. To our country this bet for the transformation of the education system has already been drawn in the Law of Education of Catalonia. At one point in time, in conjunction with the European education model, a new curriculum design aimed at generating interdisciplinary synergies and interaction of knowledge with reality as a key element for the integral development of the person has been incorporated. The new curriculum is accompanied by a competitive assessment that takes into account the process of acquiring the basic skills of each student. In order to achieve these objectives, permanent training activities have been carried out for teachers throughout the Catalan territory. There has indeed been more resources available to the educational centres as a function of their complexity. This was a compromise that we brought to the Pla de Govern, and we complemented it. This measure was already incorporated in the 2017 press, and in the resolution of seedlings for the 17-18 course the increment of 350 endowments to improve the seedlings of the high complexity centers – centers with a complexity higher than the standard but lower than the maximum complexity–, which add to the four hundred endowments incorporated in the 16-17 course in the centers – these yes – of maximum complexity. All the centres of maximum complexity, in addition to the additional teaching staff, have the support of non-teaching staff. The centres of maximum complexity can also have a rate lower than P3 and above ESO. This measure has been applied to all 162 qualified centres as the most complex they have wanted to join. It will continue to apply to the length of the course you see, course 17-18, and, concretely, the proper course will apply to 233 primary and 105 secondary centres. There has been a clear advance to inclusive school: the course 2016-2017, 140 more teachers and maintenance of the 360 educational care professionals incorporated in the previous course; course 2017-2018, 187 more teachers and 99 educational care professionals. The Government, in this sense, is also proceeding with the decree of the student education service in the framework of an inclusive education system. Fifty-nine units of special education support have been created in schools and institutes. The experimental pilot scheme of specific format routers has been implemented in eight groups of twelve students each, with which it is believed that there are no new places in the offer of post-compulsory teachers for students with special educational needs. They have increased from sixty-three to seventy-three centres with specific resources for deaf students. Five new comprehensive student support classrooms have been created with special educational needs derived from complex mental health situations. As for the educational services, there has been an increase in the seedlings of the psychopedagogic counseling teams – fifteen new psychopedagogs – of the educational resource centers for the student with hearing impairment – thirteen teachers of hearing and language – and of the educational resource center for the student with the disruption of development and conduct – in concrete terms, fifteen psychopedagogs with specific training. Finally, to say that the 2007_presupposition approved the increase of 187 teachers and 99 professionals of educational care, as I have stated, and that the process of territorial planning has now been completed in order to carry out the increments for the 18th century due to the needs detected. In the course 2017-2018 there will be an increment of 4,714 endowments of new teachers. This increase in endowments must enable the demand for new schooling to be met, compensate for the reduction of one hour's teaching time for the teachers, improve the student's direct attention, improve the centre's resources as a function of its complexity, expand the resources to attend inclusive school, improve coordination in the institutes and improve the staff to the schools that teach the six-hour period. Substitution coverage is also improved, claims are covered from the first day on more than seven days, and claims from September 1, 2017 will be covered. This improvement involves an increase in expenditure equivalent to 797 teachers. There will also be more resources for eating scholarships and we'll have more flexible criteria. In addition, an open line is maintained to attend to all situations occurring at the length of the year; in the course 2016-2017 it has reached 64_million euros, more than in the course 2015-2016. And, in raising the thresholds, the number of aids that cover 50_percent of the cost of the fooder and also the number of aids that cover its totality, the hundred_per_cent, has increased. Resolved the requests for fellowships and communicated them to the local councils. And for the course you see, the reference of the shields to get help will already be completely the one of the poor risk shield for all members of the family unit. At this time, the total number of feeding scholarships we have donated in the course we have just closed..., is not closed at all, because the local councils were still sending out liquidations, but we can say that at this time the Government of Catalonia has already granted 106,000 feeding scholarships. In the next course there will be 99_million euros in works in educational centers. We approved it on June 6. We will charge the Generality Infrastructures with various activities in educational centres for a value of almost one hundred_million euros, 99.150,000_euros. The works in charge include expansions, adaptations, new construction and renovation works, expansion and improvement, both schools and institutes. Six of these centers are found entirely in modules. The first accreditation and qualification plan has been approved with an offer of 7,900 places, a plan approved between the Department of Education and the Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families, in coordination with the Catalan Council of Vocational Training, which provides for an offer of 7,900 places in new different areas until 2018. It will allow people with lack of professional qualifications to assess and credit the skills acquired through their professional experience. The plan, which was approved by the Government on 27 September, has been developed by both departments, as I said, in coordination with the Catalan Council for Vocational Training, because the interest of the Government is to continue to affirm the prestige of the FP. In fact, the later years, supply and enrolment have gradually increased: in the later course, 116,634 students enrolled in the face-to-face system in FP format cycles, and for the next course, forty-five new cycles are implemented to meet sectoral and territorial demand. In total, 134 different titles, of twenty-and-four professional families. Social acceptance, and therefore the demand for seats in FP cycles, has increased in recent years: if there were 94,511 students in 2010-11, there are now 116,634 registered in the face-to-face system, with an increase of more than 23_per_cent in only seven years. This increase, which in good part has taken place in the years of economic and presuppositional difficulty – which still puts more merit in the work done by the previous governments – is explained by a growing preference for the demand of students and by the increase in public resources to give-answer it – with increments of the offer. For the coming course there have been planned cycles that diversify and improve the offer of vocational training in public centres: forty-five new cycles in centres of the Department of Education and four cycles in municipal public centres, with the support of the Department of Education. In total, therefore, forty-nine offers in public centres, twenty-three of which are cycle offers in the technological and industrial fields, with which we anticipate the commitments of the National Pact for Industry that we signed this same week. The consolidation of the dual PS is an evidence that no one can but deny, but that everyone begins to claim as if it were already what it is, a country success: from about six hundred students in 2012 to more than eight thousand in 2017– the next course is expected to reach the deu_mil – from twenty-five educational centers to more than two hundred, and from a hundred entrepreneurs to more than three thousand – almost 3,100. That's a round hit. Dual FP graduates are, in addition, the pre-crisis level of employment, members and deputies – the pre-crisis level of employment –: 70_percent of new-month jobs. Ninety-two FP centres have participated in international mobility and cooperation projects and improved teacher training. We have, in fact, allocated three million euros to continuing training. And in continuation of all these actions and in the last few weeks, in which the political direction of the Department has been assumed by Constellera Ponsatí – because she sees this thread of continuity to which we have been committed – last week, the Government approved the preliminary memory of the draft law of composition of the School Council of Catalonia, which has the objective of adapting its composition to the reality of the educational community of the country with the incorporation of entities and institutions not represented in the current regulatory legislation. Thus, it is also intended to compliment Law 12/2009 of 10 July, which establishes that the composition of the School Council of Catalonia must be regulated by law, and provides for a term of eight years, from its publication, to be able to do so, as well as establishing mechanisms to facilitate the flexibility of its composition and functioning to the reality of the Catalan educational community. There is also the signature of an agreement between the Department of Education, which now chairs Consellera Ponsatí, and TMB for dual professional training, which will allow to increase the offer of this dual FP that I have previously detailed in the Esteve Terradas Institutes, Cornellà, Pedraforca, the Hospitallet, and the school institute of Sant Adrià del Besòs. It also approved a government agreement that increases the provision of student support monitors with special educational needs. There was the meeting with the syndic for the follow-up work of the pact against school segregation, we remembered the initiation of marches to the inn in March of the Observers of Equity, in which we are actually working. The Department of Education has undertaken, in the framework of the National Pact for Industry 2017-2020, to improve the vocational orientation of young people paying special attention to the vocations of industry and, more generally, in the field of STEMs; to improve training in digital skills across the entire education system, among others, and to continue to extend the FP model, alternately and dually, in collaboration with industrial sectors. Just yesterday, in the Technical Council of the Government, there passed the decree of inclusive – for the third time – so that it can be approved for the Government in the next month of September. This is the..., when we talk about loyalty, dedication, trust, motivation to ratify every member of the government, we talk about these things, this work of government. And the government's new commitment is exactly, with the full route approved by Parliament, as the work done since the minute or each of the new advisors and the government's secretary believes. And finally, for what he does to the Interior Department, I think it is obvious that preventive and reactive strategies have been reinforced towards the threat of terrorist character that is of enormous concern not only to our people, but also to our people around us, to the surrounding countries, all over the world, who feel like their own threat. And, in this context, I would like to highlight the implementation of the Special Anti-Terrorism Operation Plan under the leadership of Councillor Jané, with the aim of regulating, ordering and directing counter-terrorism measures, with a 30_percent preventive patrol aimed at preventing the terrorist threat. In fact, in Barcelona the city of this patrol is 40_per_cent. So, little joke, when we talk about the squadron moss; we mean that at least 30 percent of the patrol is intended to prevent the terrorist threat. In 2016, precisely, a contingency fund of some EUR 11.5 million was approved for the purchase of specific equipment and for the increase of anti-terrorist patrol hours, and a new fund, including EUR 11 million, was approved for the year 1017. A device has been developed and a work procedure has been approved to give an answer before a time has passed. The development of Islamist radicalization detection procedures has also been promoted – worked together with local police in this area – and the participation of the Mosso d'Esquadra in the Centre d'Intel·ligência contre le Terrorisme et el Crim Organizat, the CITCO, has finally been consolidated. Also in the field of the Department of Internal Affairs, a series of measures and actions have been completed to combat transnational organized crime, the fight against trafficking in human beings, house robberies and cybercrime. Also, the consolidation of the civic security model, based on proximity, and the promotion of programs to support victims of hate crimes and discrimination, attitude that surely has much to see with the high degree of acceptance that has, among our fellow citizens, the Police of Catalonia - Mossos d'Esquadra. There has been international recognition explicit for the security device of Mossos d'Esquadra with motive of the Mobile World Congress, which precisely 2017 beat a new record: 108,000 people, which supposes an increment of 7_per_cent respect to the previous year, that came from two hundred different countries. The Mobile World Congress ended, as well as this increase in users, with a 13_per_cent reduction in crime in public transport. In fact, only a total of twenty-seven criminal acts were recorded directly to congressmen, and there was a very good level of global security, recognized for organizers. During the congress, 148 fets were recorded, an increase of only three fets compared to the previous edition. During the four days of the event, a total of twenty-two arrests were made in the Mobile World Congress, and the victimization index for every thousand visitors was 0.34, which is a lower index than the previous year, 2016, which was 0.36. I must also remind you that the model of service of the Mossos d'Esquadra has been reinforced with the impulse of the command structure, recovering the figure of the Major of the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, and with the appointment of eight commissioners, twelve intendors, thirty-two subinspectors, eighty-seven sergeants and two-hundred_ corporals, and that they have called themselves places of inspector. The model of service of the Mossos d'Esquadra has been strengthened both with the impulse of the joint command structure as with the call, which all of you know, of five hundred places of a new promotion of moves to compensate for the natural decrease of the staff of the Mossos Cos d'Esquadra, and the April of 17 was approved the offer of public occupation, which is expected to publish properly the call, which will give entry to these new agents in practice, if everything goes as it is to go, the year 2018. A set of actions has also been completed to renew and acquire new material resources and equipment for the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra, such as the sub-administration of 17,200 inner armors for all police purposes and the acquisition of 15,359 external funds, 13,250 anti-tall gloves and 393 modular helmets with installed communication equipment. Also, 820 mobile park vehicles have been renovated, with which the third phase, of a total of 2,057 vehicles, has been completed, and the proposed incorporation of 134 power-driven devices is currently under contract. Also donated, to the citizen security units and to the regional areas of operating resources of Mossos d'Esquadra, a thousand mobile tablets, which allow access to police information of people and vehicles, to improve efficiency and security in the patrol activity. And, on the other hand, they have expanded the police offices of attention to the citizen, among which they would like to highlight the entry into operation of the commissioner of the Ametlla de Mar, and they are performing works of other commissariats. They must have noticed, too, that the portal of Dades Obertes dels Mossos d'Esquadra, a portal with detailed information of the criminal acts, organizational data, incidents that take hold of the territory, and human resources and materials that they have. This portal of Dades Obertes also includes information on male and domestic violence, prison transfers or support for sporting events, among others. The project started with 500,000 data, but the next few months would add up to nine. There has been the implementation of the Safety Plate and attention to victims of male and domestic violence 2015-2018. In this sense, the police risk assessment questionnaire for victims of male violence in the area of the pair has been put on the march. This evaluation allows the Squad Mossos to graduate the police follow-up and protection actions that must be carried out for each victim. And, in order to promote the homogenous and coordinated work of the local police in Catalonia, it was later made available to these police officers, the municipal police in Catalonia, the police risk assessment questionnaire so that they can also use it when they perform attestations for this kind of crime. The General Safety Board of Catalonia 2016-2019 has been approved, which reverses the actions that the Government will push to ensure the safety of people, the benefits and the environment. The plan integrates the general forecast of risks, actions and media in the field of citizen security, emergencies, road safety, and others that affect citizen coexistence and security of people and benefits in Catalonia. The Ordering Law Project for public and recreational entertainment activities has been approved. The objective is to respond to the real situation in which the economic activity of the oci sector is currently developing, to ensure the safety of participants, to strengthen coexistence among all sectors involved, to ensure the quality of establishments and activities, and to facilitate economic activity. It is currently in the review phase of the articulated papers as part of the presentation of public performances and recreational activities of the Parliament's Committee on the Interior. The Code of Practice for Private Security Services has been approved, which establishes the ethical principles for the entire private security sector that provides its services to Catalonia. And the point is clear: it is that the professionals and contractors in the field of this security adhere to it, in addition to complementing the rules governing private security, and that it is committed to vetting for the full respect of certain rules and ethical principles in the provision of services, in the contracting of staff and also in their relations with the citizenry. The new uniformity of the local police has been approved, given that it answers a historical demand for the different bodies of the local polices– in fact, the Commission of the Police of Catalonia, at the session of 14 June of the 17th, informed favorably of the proposal for the homogenization of the uniformity of the local polices, which was published in a resolution of the Department of Interior –, or the implantation of extrapol, the extranet addressed to the local polices, with the objective, also, to homogenize their work and facilitate their collaboration with the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra. There was the impetus and leadership of the European Forum for Urban Security. The Department of Interior has managed to renew the presence in the committee of this association, and the councillor has participated as he put in the conference of this European Forum for Urban Security on recommendations for the prevention of radicalism at the local level that was held in Rimini, Italy. There has been the deployment of energy conductor devices as the new police tool, after the agreement reached with the working group on the use for the police of electric guns in the framework of the Commission d'Interior del Parlament de Catalunya. There has been the approval of the Strategic Platform of the General Directorate of Prevention, Fire Extinguishing and Rescue 2017-2022, which has an import of 207_million euros. It is a plan that responds to the need to update the situation of the Bomber Cos and renews and updates human resources to the fire department, to the vehicles, to the clothing and to the specific material. Some of these improvements: 553 seats have been called for a new promotion of functional firefighters, which will be incorporated into practice in the guany forest campaign, and 350 places of volunteer firefighters who will start the select course this close late. Thus, there are two new calls before the end of 2017: one hundred and fifty seats of functional bombers and one hundred and fifty seats of volunteer bombers. On the other hand, for what he does at the 2016 Bomber Command Scale, fifty-seven corporal seats and twenty-two sergeant seats were called for internal promotion, and this 2017 has been called seven inspector seats and divided under-inspector seats. As for equipment, vehicles and specific material, I have to tell you that 4,225 individual protection equipment has been delivered to all firefighters, both of which will work as volunteers. This new equipment offers new and better technical performance and involves a change of corporate image. On the other hand, the contract for the renewal of thirty-two light vehicles has been completed, and so it has invested itself in the renewal of specific material, such as 2,000 mangroves, 200 mangrove motxillas, 200 ampoules of air, 200 respiratory protection equipment and 16 thermal chambers, 2 command tents, 3,600 boats and 2,000 pairs of gloves. And, as for the fire parks, the renovation works of the park of Vilafranca del Penedès, working in the works of the best of the park of Figueres, are in tender process the works of the park of Granollers and the works projects of the parks of Moià, Balaguer, Girona, Solsona and Serós, and the new regional control room of Girona. The decree regulating the guard functions and the command system of the Generality Firehouse has been approved. Its objective is to regulate the functions of the different centres and guard positions that configure the response to an emergence, as well as to determine the proper command structure for each service within the corresponding territorial area of operation, in order to ensure the resolution of emergencies. For what it does to the radio communications network of the operating security and emerging objects – the Rescue network – all the terminals of Mossos and Bombers have been renovated. The goal is to improve the coordination of communications between different bodies. And, on the other hand, Rescued issuers have surrendered to the municipality with municipal vigilantes and associations of civil protection volunteers, who have signed a deal with the Department of Interior that makes it possible. And so, too, the latest improvements in communication security have been applied: a 50-per-cent renewal of the Rescue network repeaters has taken place, and this network has increased with fourteen new repeaters. There has been the approval of the Special Civil Protection Platform for the risk of sales, which establishes the operation and procedures necessary to manage any emergence associated with these eventualities. Plans Neucat, Infocat, Plaseqcat, Transcat and Procitate have also been reviewed. And, on the other hand, there have also been better implementations in emergence management and coordination systems. And in the final phase the development of a new pioneering application for mobile phones, a specific application for victims of male and domestic violence that facilitates the contact of victims with the Squadron Mosses and makes faster the emergence telephone alert to 112 Catalonia. This application is linked to police databases of male rape victims and respects, as it cannot otherwise be, at all times the guarantee of confidentiality and data protection. I want to put them in value as well as the magnification of the 112 trick service into forty-five languages. Since the first quarter of 2017, the 112 Emergence Phone has been running in fifty languages, after incorporating into the catalogue of telephonic services, using an interpreter, forty-five more languages, in the band of those who already existed – the català, the castle, the English, the French and the German – in which it has been in full punctuality. In the framework of the natural and green-span signage plan, a web page has entered into operation where you can consult the map with mountain areas with mobile coverage, the location of the 112 signage poles and mountain shelters with which you can contact through the emergency services. And the 2017-2019 Road Safety Board was approved. This is a very important plan, it's a country plan. It is a plan that aims to reduce deaths by 45_per_cent compared to 2010. The plan is deployed in 125 actions or concrete measures to reduce the accident to the Catalan road network, with specific objectives: to reduce the 36_percent of heavy injuries with lifelong sequelae, the 54_percent of the number of dead infants, the 18_percent of the name of fatal and heavy injuries in motorists, the 27_percent of fatal injuries by overrunning, the 18_percent of the name of fatal and heavy injuries in the day and coming and turning of the work, and the 9_percent of the name of fatal large people. In this sense, eight of us tram radars are set up to reduce excessive speed. There has also been an expansion of the Information and Attention Service to Traffic Victims. There has been a complete renewal of the Centre d'Information Viària de Catalunya, which is located at the same level as the European reference centres. There is all the coordination in the university formation that is given to the Institute of Public Security of Catalonia, with the development of the degree in Security and university masters. And this near late will begin the fourth academic course of the degree in Seguretat, and, therefore, will complete the development of the course of studies of the university system. I must tell you – it is also worth congratulating all of us – that for the first time in history there is the lowest number of victims of death in the first half of the year: sixty-six are mass, one is mass, and so on, but that is the lowest number of victims of death in the first half of the year I think it is a date that explains very well how the policies of the department have converged. And I would also like to put it in value, because we have pursued it for a long time – Councillor Jané has devoted himself for a long time, this Parliament, myself, in the meetings I had with the Spanish Government, and the spokespersons of other parliamentary groups have insisted on it – the celebration of the Catalan Security Council last July 10th, after eight years of not meeting them, and which involved the achievement of outstanding agreements: the recognition of a state debt to Catalonia of EUR 619 million in terms of the agents incorporated into it after years; the integration of the Mossos, as I said before, into the CITCO; the integration into the coordination table and into the framework of the terrorist agenda. And in continuity with all these actions and in these last weeks, in which Councillor Forn has also taken the direction of the department, I want to remind them that he has continued to do what Councillor Jané has already left behind. There has been a working session with the Commands of the General Bombers; in fact, Councillor Forn and the Director General of Bombers have met with all the operational heads and the heads of the territorial regions of the General Bombers to coordinate and assess the development of the forest campaign. And, in fact, at the Councillor's request at the same meeting also, a status report on the state of development of the strategic Pla that I have previously discussed, 2017-2022 is being carried out. There has also been a working session with the General Police Commands - Squad Roads. The Councillor, the Secretary General and the new Director General of the Police have held a working meeting with the major of the body and all the commanders of the general commissariats and the police regions, where the Councillor is given full confidence to the highest officials of the institution of the Mossos d'Esquadra and is encouraged to continue to serve the people of Catalonia effectively, with closeness and with the vocation of serving. The meeting of the Counter-Terrorism Coordination Office was presided over to give continuity to a very effective job, because, indeed, we do not lower the guard. There was a meeting with the delegate of the Spanish Government in Catalonia to follow up on the compliment of the agreements of the Security Board and to advance in the practice of the agreements that were pending. There was a meeting with Councillor Rull and Mayors of Penedès, Camp of Tarragona and Lands of the Ebre for the national 340. I think it's worth it too that we put it in great value. It's a meeting that goes after a long demand and a situation that, let's make it clear, for its own sake, we can't afford. Therefore, I would like to thank them that they have not noticed for a minute the change of advice, that they have taken on this responsibility since the minute or that they have finally reached a long-awaited and concluded agreement. There's been a meeting with Aran's syndicate. There was the call of the Motorcycle Working Group of the Català de Trànsit Service. There was the signature of an agreement between the Interior Department and the Barcelona City Council for the better of cardioprotection. And, therefore, there was what we committed ourselves to when we explained the changes in the government on the first occasion that we had the opportunity, which is a ratification of the work done so far. We are very proud of what the advisors and outgoing advisors have done, and what the incoming advisors will do. We feel like we're complicit. We felt very well accompanied by Councillor Jané, Councillor Munté and Councillor Ruiz. I felt, in particular, very well accompanied. I felt very well served, because all that we have asked of them – all that has come to me, the fruit of the visits to the territory, meeting with the sectors, all that I have had to collect and have transferred to the councillors who have ceased – have taken it with great and high responsibility, with a high sense of public service. And so, I made myself clear, that I made myself clear once more: the councillors have provided an exemplary service not to the Government of Catalonia, but to the country. I'm very grateful to you, I told each of them. I said it to the first wheel of press, I say it here: 'I have no accomplice, of this work of government, and they can feel legitimately proud. And the incoming counselors, whom I thank for their courage and courage, feel like heretics, and we'll be following in turn. And I felt, besides, not only accompanied, but with the utmost complicity in everything and for all that this government has proposed. And so, according to how, after this little summary of the work that the departments have done, that I assure you that it could have been much longer, they will understand that it is a little painful that some of you still insist on the mantra that this government only thinks of the process. It's unfair, it's not honest, and it doesn't do the counselors, the councillor and the secretary of the government that have decided to take a step on the side, and it doesn't do the job of the counselors and counselors who are part of this government justice. Because you can admit everything, in political criticism, and we admit it, and every time a counselor has come to give his face because he has been asked to appear, he has done it, to the green and to the mature, it is the parliamentary game, nothing happens; but when it is lacking to respect the work of the counselors and counselors want to make believe things that are not, that can not stand a minute of contrast and comparison with what I have just explained, I think you – some – should do a reflection. Before they asked me if I had meditated; I asked them to meditate around what I just read very quickly, very briefly. Maybe you'll think it's been a long hair; I assure you that we've done the job, to make the summary, because the day-to-day of all the members of the government is characterized, in their vast majority, by things like these, and that they have a clear result in a short time, visible. Millions... in what? In all the lines of work that counselors have held under their responsibility. Do you want to talk about education? We're talking about education. Are we talking about security? We're talking about security. Are they talking about women's politics? Let's talk about women's politics. In all the elements that these advisors have held their responsibility, they can go with their heads high. I went there on his behalf, and I asked him to respect and understand them for a personal decision that I would not have wanted to make, because I told all of them, "I have no reason to stop you, no reason to stop. After reading this, they'll understand why I don't have it. Because with a government work like this, believe me, and in the conditions in which they have to do it, and with the misunderstanding with which they have to rule, I can only thank them for the courage they have had all these months and years. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.121.0	Thank you very much, President. Representatives of parliamentary groups will continue to speak for a maximum of two minutes. In the first place, has the word Inés Arrimadas, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.122.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Puigdemont, first of all, I would like to welcome the new advisers; with some we already know each other personally, with others we do not have the pleasure. And I say to you that, on a personal level, I obviously wish you the best, very lucky, very good, but on a political level I wish you a short mandate and that you do not give much time to do things, because I am sure that if you do something, well, good for Catalonia will not be. And the only thing we have to make clear is that these are not normal changes in the government. Mr. Puigdemont, Mr. Counsellor of the Interior, this morning they wanted to make it look like this, well, it was a personal decision... No, this is not a pass that has taken the gentlemen of the government, the pass of dismissal or the pass of resignation. No, no, this is a real government crisis. I know you're very used to trying to live in a parallel reality, to deny reality, but this is a government crisis like a house of pay. And this is a purge, it's a political purge. Mr Puigdemont in the last sentence..., see that he has read all his speech, but in the part that he has not read he has missed a sentence, and he said: "This is a decision he would not have wanted to take. He has escaped – he has escaped – Mr Puigdemont. He has escaped, because this has been a personal decision no one believes – no one believes it. You either cast the one who dares to doubt the referendum of October 1 in public, as he did with Mr Baiget, or make the round of advisers to ask: "Are you willing to be the pawn of the process, the soldier of the process – as Mr Pere Soler, the new director general of the Mossos, said – yes or no? And, of course, those who put themselves in the face of doubt, those who did not respond quickly, came up with a personal subject and had to resign. Man, no one believes this, this looks like the out-of-government operation. I think more people are coming out of the government than cars from Barcelona next Friday, with the exit operation. And it's normal, because what you're proposing, what you do, tension and divide, and we're seeing it in your own government. How are you going to guarantee consensus and union in Catalan society if you cannot guarantee it among your own, among those elected among you, among your own Government? In addition, you made a speech today that surprised me, because it seemed like an end-of-parliament balance; it seemed that you were saying goodbye, Mr Puigdemont. I do not know if that means anything, that we are before the last plenary of the legislature. Why not? The truth is, you've spoken almost an hour and a half. I would like to discuss many of the things you have said, but we only have ten_minutes and I guess there won't be a second round, because normally there never is – you do the minimum required by the Rules of Procedure from the debates, and you don't like appearances very much – so I'm going to focus on the assessment of advisors. The new advisors don't matter if they've never worked outside of politics, any of them; it doesn't matter if they haven't worked outside of politics and have a good career history that has nothing to do with the management areas – it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter what management they're going to do right now. Mr Puigdemont has not spoken of anything they are going to do, he has spoken of what has been done. Besides, it's gotten a little weird, because he's been talking very well about what the counselors who are no longer here have done. It's like saying: as a prize to manage so well, we've had to get them out of the way because they weren't committed enough to the process. Mr. Jané's case is paradigmatic, isn't it? Now we'll say it. You, new advisers and advisers, who, I insist, welcome you personally, have not come here to manage services or solve problems: you have come to be pawns of the process, soldiers of the process, as the new Director General of the Mossos d'Esquadra says. And don't you dare question things in public, because you can end up like Mr. Baiget. And you have to say at every moment what the President says – at every moment –; do not lose track, because when the President changes his speech, you will quickly have to change. We all remember when the president promised in a very emphatic way: "Here we are going to be independent in eighteen months. I remember Mr. Romeva, Mr. Junqueras, these very heartful statements in which they said that the referendum had already been made, that the referendum... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Man, Mr. Junqueras said in RAC1: "No one in life makes two independence referendums. If we have already done so! They were not democrats, at the time, when they denied the referendum; they had a phase of little democracy in their lives. But then it looks like they got it back with the president's new speech, which right now is to repeat 9-N and it's October 1. The President's new speech will come – you must be careful – in which he calls for elections, in which he sells the elections as the great plebiscite, as an election..., I do not know if they will call them "constituents. I'm sure he'll come, that speech; be careful. The same is true of you, when your colleagues in the first plebiscite election supposedly said that it was "the vote of your life..., perhaps you now have to say "the revot" of your life. But don't worry, because that stage will come. And the proof of what I'm saying is Councilman Jané – and I'd like to have a word for this Councilman –, a councilman who in the last few days had managed to hold the Security Board, which had managed to get the Mossos d'Esquadra to join the CITCO, this international anti-terrorism body. The prize is that you leave the government, because it doesn't matter that you manage well, it doesn't matter. All that matters here is that there are process pawns. Someone moderate, someone sincere, someone respectful of legality, someone who wants to protect officials, has no room in this government – has no room. And the situation of the Mossos d'Esquadra – it's a shame that there's not the new interior advisor –..., you're going to put them between the sword and the wall. Are you going to force the Mosses to break the law? But what is this, the world backwards? Are thieves going after the mossos now? What legitimacy will the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps have when they have to pursue crimes, when they have to arrest people who are breaking the laws, when they are going to be forced to break the laws? Do you want to carry the legitimacy of the Mossos d'Esquadra Corps, which, by the way, is much higher than that of the Government of the Generalitat on the part of the Catalans? Do you really want to put the Mossos d'Esquadra between the sword and the wall? And the rest of the officials... we saw it with Mrs. Borràs, who urged them to take her party day to go press the courts. That, yes, then, in the courts, you blame the officials. Seeing how you treat your party mates, those positions you've put on your finger, how you wouldn't treat officials who aren't related to you, if you could! How they'd treat them! And, of course, the counselors who want to remain what they can't talk about corruption: here the only one who steals is Spain. The 3_per_cent, the Pujol, the ITV..., all this, nothing; the « and you more with the PP and « now does not touch. And what is truly surprising to me is to see the epic and braveness again in a speech, because it has reminded me a lot of the investiture speech of Mr Puigdemont. You had the same epic promising independence in eighteen months, Mr Puigdemont, than promising today again a referendum for October 1st. Really, I've come to think he even believes it; it's changing, but it's epic. But do you know what's going on, Mr Puigdemont? That you speak much but sign little, and that you have some speeches at the rallies that then, in front of the judges, you forget. For example, you have Constellera Borràs, who has left a written letter to the TSJ saying that ballot boxes can be used for AMPA elections and union elections. Is this the epic you have? Or Mr. Mas, who compares himself to Mandela, right? – the Mandela of the Costa Brava –, which says in front of the judges that he at no time authorized the use of public money for the 9-N and that it was the officials, who accuse before the Court of Auditors of using the money for the 9-N. Is that the epic and bravery you have? Because I tell you one thing: if you lose the epic, you have absolutely nothing left – you have absolutely nothing left. And you are more and more alone: we have not only seen it in the CEO, the one you do, the one who cooks you, saying that independence is low, but that there are more and more independent people, Mr Puigdemont, who dream of living in an independent Catalonia, who dream of their children having a passport from Catalonia, and who know that you are committing madness after madness and that you are not going anywhere. That's why they're getting more and more alone. And they are alone because what they are going to adopt in this plenary, such as the Rules of Procedure, they are going to approve it with the Members of this part of the Chamber, who I remind them that they represent less Catalans than those we are in this part of the Chamber. What's going on, that you guys love the Spanish Electoral Law. We have not passed an electoral law in Catalonia, not because we cannot, but because you do not want to, because you do not want to lose the privilege that the Spanish Electoral Law gives you to have more deputies in Parliament when you have fewer votes on the street. To fulfill you the Spanish Electoral Law are more Spanish than Manolo that of the drum– more Spanish than Manolo that of the drum– [[relays]] , but only for the Spanish Electoral Law, because that law gives them privileges. Look, I, Mr. Puigdemont, just tell you: do you want to fulfill your promise for the first time as president? Do you want to keep your promise that there will be real ballot boxes on October 1st? Is there a real census? Is there a real election board? Is there any guarantee? Do you want to keep your promise that all Catalans will feel part of that vote? Do you want a result that can be applied and internationally recognized? Call elections for October 1st. It's the only way out, the only time you're going to put ballot boxes, really. And it won't be a referendum. I know you will have lied again, but after the retaliatory of lies you carry, of unfulfilled promises, I don't think you care one more or one less; at least you will fulfill a part of your last promise, that there are ballot boxes. Mr Puigdemont, Catalonia needs a new government. There are many things that Catalans can agree on – many – but you focus on what divides us, on what goes nowhere, on what does not generate consensus either in your own government or in your own party. Mr Puigdemont, we need a government with people who have worked out of politics, please, a few years, no matter what sector, but who knows what the real world is: people who have worked in the emergency department of a hospital managing health; people who have given classes in the barracks, in education; people who have a reform project, not a break-up project. There are very good professionals in Catalonia and many don't even have a match card. Why can't they participate in a government? Why aren't they process pawns? Why aren't they soldiers of independence? We need a government with an ambitious but realistic project, within the law, that has a plan to reform the laws, not to jump them; a government with a project of future for all Catalans, within Spain and within the European Union, and a government that intends to lead the reforms of Spain, not that uses Spain as that wild for all evils. I'm only telling you one thing, Mr. Puigdemont: this new, clean government will arrive, without backpacks of corruption, without three percent, without plans of rupture – that government will arrive –; I don't know when, I hope soon. But all I'm telling you is that you're going to be the only ones who won't be able to participate, because you've broken all the ships, you've broken all the bridges, you've crossed all the boundaries and, above all, you've left aside the Catalans. You will be the only ones who will not be able to participate in the new government in Catalonia. And I only wish you that this new mandate – to the councillors – is short and, above all, that you do not have much time to commit illegalities, to endanger officials or to spend Catalan money on something that divides us. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.123.0	Thank you, Mrs. Arrimadas. Mr Miquel Iceta, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continues to speak.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.124.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr President, fifteen days ago we had a debate on the remodeling of the government, and we are obliged today to do another one. And I have to say, I think that with a tone that can't be described as bitter, that, as he explains, there are fewer changes, which, from the point of view of the parliamentary debate, is not good. And I forgive 'but I say it, but the trip to Ithaca is taking the airs of The Medusa ray – The Medusa raft, in castle, is The Medusa ray, in català. The trip to Ithaca was heroic, yes, but only with a single survivor – I don't know if it must be Ulisses, Junqueras. And the ray of the Medusa, masterfully painted by Géricault, describes the dramatic attempt to survive in a fragile ray after a shipwreck. Arthur warned us that we were going to collision and that we found ourselves in an unknown land, but perhaps not, Mr. President, that you took so little of the letter. Who were the reasons for the change in government? If we are to pay attention to yourselves, those who leave the Government are concerned about their property or their family; they are those who are not willing to take the last part of the journey, surrounded by uncertainties and perils, as it seems, unbearable. You said, and this honor, that those who leave are guided..., or your pocket has been "guided by the ethics of responsibility; I hope that those who enter or follow too, and that the things that Mr. Germà Bel tells you are useful, if he has replied. Today, at least, he introduced them, which he didn't do the other day. And I also have to say that he explained what they did, which the other day did not respect Councilman Baiget. And we have said this since the first moment: we do not intend to discuss its prerogatives or its competitions at the time of forming or changing government. Yes, we allow ourselves to say that it may not be appropriate to do so every fortnight. And, therefore, the question is bound: will these be the next changes? When will the department's direction square finally be established? There was a secretary general who lasted 15 days, wasn't there? – all folds, I mean. And a few changes have been especially overtaken by us, Mr. President. Allow me to ask: is it worth a project in which you cannot count with Neus Munté as a member of the Government? It's an answer that only you can give. After all, we are intrigued and worried, why can it be the reasons that, at the time of completion of the crossing, a person of crushed stone, from loyalty to bomb-proof, discreet, effective, militant firm and disciplined, esteemed leader, makes us, or does not feel like or not very motivated? If what they have to do from now on is not the Neus Munté, think 'hobe: they may be mistaken objective and instrument. About the switch to the education board, I won't be there. It probably has to do with the obvious risks of this department in a context of possible fraudulent use of educational centres. It's better they don't, given the experience. The change to the Department of Interior deserves an additional finding. There was a change in a councilman who did it all just one week had unlocked a difficult question that made it eight years ago that it was blocked: the call of the Board of Security of Catalonia, which you preside, with fifteen agreements held, to which may add the call of five hundred nine seats of Mossos d'Esquadra. Home, it's a very strange way to recognize a well done job. In all ways, like you wanted to underline the continuity in the work, we give in fact that all agreements entered into on the Security Board remain in force and the government is committed to developing them. I have to tell you, Mr President, because it is personal to me, that it was precisely in the name of Councillor Jané and the Director General of the Police to whom the call and the agreements of the Security Board are due. It has a lot of importance, in politics, the tarannà of people, the trust they generate. They must, too, unlock the call for Mossos squares. You're afraid I've followed, talked to the councilman, even talked to the minister and the vice president of the Government of Spain. And allow me to doubt it: I think that, with the new team, the agreements would have been, if not impossible, much harder. About the new advisors, as I have already pointed out, nothing to say. And so – I did it with the councillors Vila and Puig, and I'm back to doing it now – all the luck, all the enclosure. They owe their trust to the President's confidence, which is the only title that one needs to be part of a government. And it's a good title, believe me, normally the presidents have a lot of criteria. But the changes have not only affected the headlines, but a few higher ranks. In many cases, they can be considered normal changes, because, if a consultant changes, then he must equip himself with his team in the department and, therefore, have collaborators of the strictest confidence. But in some cases there were also people who did not want to participate in this later stage of the high-risk single. I want to refer specifically to the director of the Mossos d'Esquadra. We have lamented the fate of Albert Batlle of the Government, Mr. President, and probably you too, I mean not with this... but why have we lamented it? Home, because we know him well, long years of shared militancy, but above all, and much more important, still much more time of calling for public service. The title of ‘public servant' is improved by few people, and we are concerned that, at this new stage, the independence and professionalism of people like Albert Batlle do not fit in. Mass things, Mr President, from our point of view, they only have one explanation: we are in an exceptional situation, and as we are in an exceptional situation, everything goes. Nor have we been reassured – and I have had the opportunity to say it personally yesterday – that the person who is to replace this public servant, whom we regret that he has ceased to be, on such a sensitive issue as the security and command of our police force, is known for his radical character and the lack of understanding of parties and people who do not think like him. That said, I want to give in fact that, once appointed, it will behave in function of the high responsibility that it will exercise. And, therefore, I am no longer in this case asking the question of the person, asking the criteria that led him to be named, which is different. I hope that the criteria have not been the radicality expressed in other moments of his life– allow'ml'expression, also friendly, pretend – civil, but I must say that if I were president, I would have thought very well before assigning such a singular responsibility to a subject so sensitive to someone who expressed himself very little respect for political and social pluralism. In any case, and I repeat, I am a gift in fact that now that you are responsible for the safety of everyone, also of my own, will act in accordance with the obligations of its staff, which are reflected in a Catalan law that may be worth remembering. It is the Catalan Law – if you say so, Corominas Law I think we would not be exaggerating – of transparency, access to public information and good governance, which in its Article 55, as Mr Lluís Corominas knows perfectly well, says that these obligations are: "to respect the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy and the principle of legality; b, respect and protection of the rights and freedoms of the public, public rights and statutory rights; c, the transparency of official activities, acts and decisions related to the management of public policy; b, respect and protection of the rights and freedoms of the public, public rights and statutory rights; c, the transparency of official activities, acts and decisions related to the management of public policy subjects; b, the respect and protection of the rights and freedoms of the public, the effects of the publication of the Register of Interest Groups, established for these purposes, and decisions related to the management of public policy; b, the respect and protection of the rights and official agenda, the purposes of publication, the purposes of publication of the Register of interest groups, the transparency of official activities, of official activities, the laws, and decisions related to the administration of law, including the purposes of law, and of law, which they, the law, the law, the law enforcement of law, the law, the law, the law, the law enforcement, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law, the law There are more obligations, but I wanted to outsource them because it's a Catalan law, it's a law not contaminated by organs that usually in the political debate in this chamber deserve all the less money. But not this one, this one we did, we did it all... consciously serving the country. And, therefore, I trust, I give in fact that all the other guys will follow her. They're obligations that... believe me, I'm not thinking about October 1st, I'm thinking about every day, every day, and not just for the Director General of the Police, I'd just miss it, just all the top guys, and also the counselors, and the same president. I have said this on other occasions: no one can be asked to respect institutions if they do not respect the legal system in which they operate. The day you cease to respect the Constitution and the Statute, you will not deserve respect for the rest. If they had – with forgiveness of the expression – asked everything. And one more time, I ask you not to place Catalan institutions outside the law. He tells us that work will continue, but that there is very little left of the legislature. All right. Before I said, "Oh, we're not many laws. Yes, but, President, I count only from the moment they enter the register of the chamber. I don't doubt the government's making memos, posing for public display, working. But the laws I have commented on are not in the chamber, because the government is not on condition, yet, or has not wanted to introduce them. Finally, a comment, even though I know there will be no answer and, therefore, I will do it in more respectful terms than usual. The Junqueras report, which has been news today, fulminates the only explanation given in its parliament about 3_per_cent. They must remember, that President Mas told us: "No one has ever been able to demonstrate any sense of irregularity, of arbitrariness in the bidding. And report it – in the words of Junqueras because you have to hold another title – assign it subjectivity and discretion in the awards. In a report that says that the infrastructure policy. And the excuse, the explanation, that President Mas gave about the 3_per_cent jumps through the air. Thank you very much, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.125.0	Thank you, Mr. Iceta. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.126.0	Thank you very much, President. President, the first thing: a certain surprise before the intervention, the speech he made. I don't know if they'll still be resigning and dropping them off on their government team. I would suggest, I would suggest the downfall of the collaborators who wrote him this speech, because this went from a macro-crisis of government and he managed not to speak a single word of policy. I think what we're interested in here is above all a political debate. Look, hearing him speak he remembered..., or hearing, more well said, the political situation in which we are having this debate reminded me of the Lebanese politician Gilbert Achcar, who on the situation of the Near East said: "It is about a clash of civilizations. I said, "No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. And here we're talking a lot more often than not about "train crash," and I think it would be more accurate, with some commentator said, to talk about "debilitate shock." And, indeed, the crisis of his Government, which is probably an unfinished crisis because it follows the rule of caigudes, which is the real motive of this occurrence, reveals above all a fever, a fever so much of the project and of the team that they intend to lead it..., and which is also passed on to Catalan society, which, instead of cohesion, divides it. Then I'll talk about it, but I'd like to – and the day goes by, because Mr. Rajoy has an appointment with justice today – refer to what is the main fever of the general political situation we live in, because Rajoy's government's politics and reality is the first and most important manifestation of fever in the political scenario that dominates us. The immobilism of the PP government, beyond its cunning and the use it makes of the State's springs, is evident above all the absence of a future project for Spain. With the historic campaign against the State and its anti-Catalan accents probably the PP thought that it could rule Spain in a lasting way, maintaining a conservative government leading the country from underprivileged to the demands and aspirations of Catalan society. Today, however, this line is exhausted, and for many reasons: for the bitterness and social discontent that the years of austerity and corruption have left; for the break-up of a new generation..., and the recent debate of the motion of censure that our comrades promoted to the Congress of Deputies, and the outcome, too, and the debate in a formation such as the Socialist Party, I have shown. In fact, Catalonia, in all this process, reveals Spain to itself, and the situation before the miracle of its plurinationality, and no one can claim, at this hour, to rule Spain without a project that ends the aspirations of self-government and full national recognition that beats in the color of Catalan society. That's the background problem. Cap fortalesa, therefore, in the enrocamento of Rajoy or in the judicial scandal against the representatives of the Catalan institutions, in the unexpected visits of the Civil Guard, etcetera. But in the face of this, in the face of this reality, the remodeling of your government, president, does not transmit any strength, but rather a sense of political decomposition, which tries to cover up with a need for discipline without cracks and with a runaway head forward. It is clear that the changes you have just introduced into your government do not respond to any attempt to improve the efficiency of the affected departments. Comparisons are hateful, and in this case they are absolutely secondary. Of all the ways, however, no one will believe that replacing Mr. Neus Munté with Mr. Jordi Turull the one he was looking for was a better..., greater communicative fineness of the Government ; or that Mr. Joaquim Forn – who we know, we are old acquaintances of Barcelona, and I wish him much luck–, therefore, the cry why he demonstrates more left than that which Mr. Jané has demonstrated to the head of a department as delicate as the Mossos ; or that the Consellera Posatí has been called to display the potential that his brilliant academic curriculum believes, but more recently it has been called because it holds the key to the scores. The remodeling responds, in fact, to the idea of forming a government of believers, among whom there can be no shadow of a doubt about the '1 of October; there can be no or cannot be manifest, more so. But the very abyss of this purge—someone has spoken of this expression—shows up to what point these doubts were stalled in their government. In total, five new advisors and other members of the PDECAT, head of the Republican Left, have fallen. As well, there are a few more advisors and advisors who share the same opinions and the same doubts as people who have ceased. Tribulation around the ballot box command makes you think so. We'll see, we'll see if this government can stand without a new choke. We'll see what's left of what's not more than, in fact, a struggle for hegemony and power between two political forces that are competing with contiguous electorates. The professions of faith in their own proclamation of independence – in fact, everyone can see it – are in conjunction with the preparations for a new autonomous election, and this seems like a little exemplary struggle in which our institutions and the democratic aspirations of the Catalan society end up with excuses and currency change. Look, we don't care, in fact, to speculate on the strength of this government, we won't do anything here. The government in general and its political project do not inspire confidence, especially because it does not tell the truth, because it does not face the truth. Now as at present – and that is the problem that has caused this crisis of government – Catalonia cannot hold an acceptable, inclusive, fully democratic, recognised, judicially effective referendum before the blockade of the Spanish Government and its return from any dialogue, on a consultation or on any way of resolving the conflict. This is obviously the first responsibility of the Rajoy government. But yours, president, is that instead of looking for a strategy that can apply the forces needed to overcome this resistance, you're telling us that every October 1st will make a unilateral and binding reference. And that's not true, everyone knows it's not true, starting with members of their own government. Neither verifiable nor legally enforceable nor electoral authority that is not on the side, nor the time of preparation, nor the impartiality of public media: no of the requirements required by the Venice Commission is contemplated in the informal draft of the law of reference that you have given to know, no of the requirements of the resolution of the general policy debate nor no procedure respect, not only with the Constitution, but with the very Statute of Catalonia. He told us the other day – and I was thinking about it in my question before – that, as the 2010 Statute had been spelled out by the Constitutional Court, in some ways it gave us to hear you, almost, that this State was already almost non-existent, that according to you, in some way, we were in a situation in which it was unclear whether we had a valid legal order to respect. I want to believe that you have not measured the abst of this statement, that you would place us, in fact, on the margin of the state of right. In a word: we do not know what the 1st of October will be, but with all certainty what will not be, what will not be the reference that Catalonia deserves and needs, and with which we are – we are still – firmly committed. Your government has the right to protest, demand respect, call on citizens who wish to be able to express themselves in the ballot box. What you don't have right to do is to set it up by announcing what you can't do and what it won't last, and even less you don't have right to impose a deceptive inn on the scene misrepresenting the democratic rights of the same Parliament of Catalonia. And this late in the day we'll talk about the reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. And that's the way he did what his government had to do with implosion. This way of dividing the Catalan society, facing up to and including them, the supporters of the right to decide and the celebration of a referendum. Do you need more proof that your full route is an adventure? Do you think it's possible to move forward every time with fewer people but more angry? We have already told him that the path for us is necessarily another one, that we can mobilize all the forces that the National Referendum Pact has applied at the time, that we can establish a sincere dialogue up to and including those progressive forces that, while manifesting fears and reserving this way, recognize, as is the case every other time, that there are legitimate aspirations of the Catalan society to which we can give answer. This path is certainly difficult but it is transitable, because Catalonia has a profound desire for change, and this profound desire for change also exists in Spanish society. The government that you announce to us – let me express it in this way – will certainly not be the government of victory. Not the core, but the inability to recognize the weakness of a strategy. There is knowledge and unconsciousness, much unconsciousness, in the runaway before they want to seal the new composition of their execution, because, beyond possible personal consequences, the fate of the Catalan institutions and the cohesion of the civil society of this country are at stake. President, look, we have been opposed to the left to his Government, firm in political orientations but institutionally loyal. But more than ever before, we are opposed to a cabinet that ignores the needs of the country, divides its people and removes us from a democratic decision-making scene. You expect that the collision course with the State will keep its rows together and end up flushing a lot of people in the street, but this is not conducive to responsible government. It is good for parliamentarians to wish for luck – and I will not miss this tradition – and uncertain about our advisers, but we are very afraid that their arrival will only serve to close the crisis of the execution a little more falsely. The change of perspective they propose for us is consistent with each time not with the remodeling of a model, a exhausted project, but with a change of majorities and the advent of a truly progressive government for Catalonia. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.127.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The words of Mr Xavier García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.128.0	Madam President, Mr President and... today we are here, just like fifteen days ago in the past, in the past plenary, to talk about a new crisis of government. Mr Puigdemont, you have already established a tradition, and it is that, after each control session, you see and tell us about the weekly victims of your radicalism, tell us about the escapees and purges from your government. However, it does not happen a day without someone, someone responsible for the Government of the Generality, current outflows – current outflows. Today we are talking about three advisors – Mr. Jané, Mrs. Munté, Mrs. Meritxell Ruiz – but we could also talk about the Secretary General of the Government, the Secretary General of Educational Policies, the Secretary General of Education, the Director of the Mossos d'Esquadra, the Director of the Emergencies Service of 112, or, later on, the late hours, of the number two, or the former number two, of Culture. As I say, therefore, a whole range of services that highlight the level of degradation that the government that you are presiding over sees. After listening to his intervention, and some opposition companions have referred to it, deu-n'hi: if with what he praised them, if with the good management they have made, the prize they have refused has been to send them home... Do you want me to tell you with sincerity? He reminded me when we saw those old Soviet documentaries, didn't he? , of the former Union of Soviet Socialist Republics, where none ceased there, there those who were purged, automatically, they themselves voluntarily resigned, resigned and were sent to Siberia. In this case, therefore, they are not sent to Siberia, obviously, but they do send them home. Miri, I wanted to do three details about one of the things you explained to us and about the nine people taking responsibility, and where your government is going. Mr. Forn I think he's just begun with a little bit, and I'm telling you with all honesty: I think someone who's an insider and his presentation card is less legal; someone who says he's going to put the Mossos in the service of an illegal political and party cause – yes, don't tell me he's not –... so it's starting, Mr. Forn, with a little bad. In particular, the Le Monde newspaper said a few days ago that moderate nationalists, Mr Puigdemont, are abandoning their ship – said the Le Monde newspaper. The article spoke literally of a government formed by the Catalans. Certainly, among these "calibres" of what the daily Le Monde talks about, I suppose, therefore, that we can include the new director general of the Mossos d'Esquadra, Mr. Soler, a director general who says that everyone who feels Spanish or that we are Spanish is sorry, a reflection that is not the result of a deep sadness, but of a suprebity, of believing 'part of a superior species, of a separatist elite who distributed books of Catalanity and democracy to the most pujolist style. This separatist elite that has ruled Catalonia decades ago has already disconnected, and they have not disconnected, Mr Puigdemont, from Spain, but have disconnected, unfortunately, from the common sense and the lowest decency. Mr Puigdemont, you have already approved more government crises than reforms in favour of the Catalans have had to end during this legislature, and this is an aspect, with all sincerity, that should be looked at. Even the same CEO, his body of inquiry, recognizes that the main problems of Catalans are the economy, social problems, and for you, which has disconnected, unfortunately, this is not its reality. You only judge, for example, your members of the government, your high offices, by their degree of fanaticism, by their great dedication to the cause and not to real policies or real work, depending on the needs of the vast majority of Catalans. So don't make us weird, don't make us weird that you're so nervous, because the appointed people run away from their government. At the last Ple was so nervous, Mr Puigdemont, that it was oblivious even to present what was then the novelty as the new counselor. And from now on, his nervous attitude, his radicality, he's bringing him to fanaticism through Twitter. You have even disappeared on Twitter: sometimes I don't know if it's you yourself, the President of the Generality, who writes the twitters, or is a fake profile of you, a troll of them that are used to threaten and scare those we don't think like you. His drift is worrying the Catalans every time. In fact, it has succeeded in what in decades of nationalist government did not succeed, and it is that silence is coming to Catalonia. Today, more artists, intellectuals, entrepreneurs and non-subsidised civil society are willing to raise their eyes, are willing to criticize the Generality, and this fact was once unheard of. You've managed to get the moderate Catalonia to put the crit to the cell. It is forming a government on the premise of fanaticism, which is carrying Catalan nationalism to the major of its history's daunting. I'll explain an anecdote that I don't have in the guide, but that's yesterday, yesterday in an act where you and I agreed, which was the 30th anniversary of the Centre d'Alt Rendiment de Sant Cugat. There I found a person who has great sporting responsibilities at European level, who is not the orb of the party that I am a member of, of the People's Party, who is a next person..., or is a nationalist, and I say, this person, yesterday, in the CAR: "What worries me the most is the contempt that at international level suffers Catalonia. This contempt has one responsible, this contempt has some responsible, and it's all you, who are seated at the first row, at the first bench. And for this reason, as I say, their behaviour puts at risk the credibility of Catalans and the credibility of the Government of Catalonia. I would ask you, Mr Puigdemont, that you intend, from here to the end of the legislature, this legislature that you have appointed, that you say that you are about to finish, not to last more political purges, so that neither you nor the image of the Catalonian Junta will benefit you. The question now is no longer independence, yes or no, because there is a general coincidence that this disruptive project, this project to separate Catalonia from the rest of Spain, is a project without future; the question now is whether Catalans want to follow with a Kamikaze government, a government of irresponsibility, as we are seeing at this time, or we want to bet on a change, on a government with attitudes and democratic forms. Some of us have ruled Catalonia, and some of us have ruled Catalonia and we have done well. And some of us have ruled in the worst moments of this country's economic crisis and we have been at the height of circumstances. And the best thing that could happen at these times, when the disclaimer has settled in the institutions and in Catalan politics, the best thing I could do – and I said it before in my intervention – is to call an election, Mr Puigdemont. You know perfectly well that the only ballots that will be held in Catalonia in the next few months – when you decide, because it is your faculty – will be ballots for some nine autonomous elections. I do not know what excuse, what name, I do not know if it will be « the vote of his life, or « the vote of his life II, I do not know in which part of the saga is to remain. But I repeat: the one – the only – vote, the only choices that will be made in the next months will be autonomous elections. If you really regard the institution that you represent, which I do not doubt; if you really regard the conjunction of Catalans, that in principle you do not have to question it, the best that you can do, Mr Puigdemont, is to summon immediately, as soon as possible, these autonomous elections, some autonomous elections where Catalans can speak as we have always done since Catalonia has democracy; some autonomous elections where Catalans have the opportunity to bet on a government with no means, and some autonomous elections – and the most important – that will allow Catalonia to exist a government that, more than at that time, governments for all the Catalans can vote on it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.129.0	Thank you, Mr Albiol. Next is the words of Mrs. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.130.0	Well, good morning to you all. It is obvious that we are talking about a power that the President of the Government has, to change in his Government, and, moreover, any government is composed and explained from, therefore, his objectives, some objectives that we understand you also share with his advisers and advisers. In any case, we do regret that there are fewer advisors every time: there are few and we go every time worse. In any case, we also want to say that this government that is now critical on the part of everyone with so much vehemence is a government that often has a very variable support. In their concrete policies, in the votes we make in this Parliament – bills of law, motions by Junts per el Si to urge the government to deploy policies – they have the support many times not of the CUP - Crida Constituent, on the contrary, they have the support of those who today, it seems, therefore, are so far away from you, right? Therefore, the Government relies on a Parliament and the Parliament has a variable arithmetic. We're often red, aren't we? , of which we are not in favour of their policies, and, moreover, we do not only fight them from here, with this oration, so vehemently that they have some, but that we go out on the road, manifest ourselves on the road against some policies that are not only not our own, but they are often against us and against what we represent. Therefore, we do not trust that the Government that you preside over will deploy either economic policies, cultural policies, territorial policies or policies of any kind that we would like to see deployed, or those that we believe this country needs. We didn't have confidence that this was the case, nor did we continue to do so today, so we have that confidence. We don't think you've done any good work, nor do we think you'll do any good work from then on. So, trust me, we're more than ready. Now, it is also true that, in order to be able to deploy the policies that we believe this country needs, that they reverse the precariousness in the material conditions of life of which the worst pass, of the working class, we do know that we need a new playing ground. What we don't do is cheat, and we try not to do it ever. And, therefore, we know that in this marque, in this land, in this paradigm there is no margin because it ends, for example, with the poor. There is room for touching the percentage of structural poverty, but we do not want a single degree of poverty, even though the structural sense, for some, therefore, justifies it. We believe that a new process is to be created, a process is to establish new bases. Why? So, to answer to what is now a scribe of an important part of the population: work, home, pa; very basic questions – very basic – but not guaranteed, yet. And that's why we want to work to generate this process, to recover sobrieties that have stolen from us, sobrieties that should be in the hands of popular power and that a vast majority of the composition of this Parliament has decided to give away: to the European Commission, to the benches, to the troika. We gave in, we gave in sovereignty to the market, and then we mourn who are the real problems of the people. So, people's real problems exist, too, because someone decided that sovereignty is set in spaces of very little democratic quality. And we came here to discuss this; we came here to discuss the basis of privileges and we came here to discuss the fact that there are aliens who decide on our lives. And that's why we don't endorse the autonomic mark, because the European Union, the State, the autonomy and even the smallest of the municipalities are correct for the transmission of liberal policies, which are why we now find ourselves in a situation of social emergence and we have to claim not only national sovereignty, but social sovereignty and popular sovereignty. Therefore, we are convinced that autonomy will not guarantee the shielding of basic services: autonomy is impossible to guarantee that there are houses for everyone while there are houses without people. We know that in autonomy there is no playing field, that it is not true that in autonomy, even if there are progressive governments, we can decide on everything. Because it is an autonomy that is protected, protected by the Constitution, protected by the Constitutional Court, by the Council of State, also by the Council of State Guarantees, protected by the markets, protected by the lobby, by some communication media. And before all this, what answer do we have? Autonomic elections? Home, so, no. The exercise of the right to self-determination [[applause]] , which is the exercise we deserve as the political subject we are. Self-determination means recovering all sobrieties. And, therefore, we are willing to ensure that this people is self-defining, despite the fact that some people say they want to fight it by land, sea and air; despite the fact that some say that setting up a referendum in the Principality, not in the immediate vicinity of the country, is even worse than a few days ago. That's what I'm talking What about the trivialization of attacks by land, sea and air; what about the trivialization of coups d'état; what about Mr. García-Margallo, who just said yesterday that the reference is even worse than a coup d'état. As is known in what bandol feel comfortable, as is noted that they are not the victims of the bombings from the area, as is noted that they were in the bandol of the winners who say that a reference is worse than a time of state – which by. We, in your change of government, will not spend much time there. That is to say, we do not trust that Mr Turull is the leader of the transformation that the Catalan Institute of Donations needs from a feminist perspective. [[remorse of the voice]] We don't even trust Mrs. Ponsati with her résumé, do we? It's just not the transformative pedagogy, it's the one that ended the concertation with the elites, or we're the ones who trust that Mr. Forn guarantees that there will never be a police ratio against political dissent again. We'd rather not trust that. So what do we have in common? The educational policies, the policies that Pendència pengen, the Interior policies? No, absolutely. We have in common the compromise to make a reference to October 1st, which is already, that is a lot. What? With a state against it. Therefore, the determination that we ask these advisors and these advisors is that the emphasis, determination, the willingness to make this reference, to execute it and to celebrate it is proportional to the intensity of weapons that the State will deploy to prevent it. And that's exactly what we ask: a reference that the government has to guarantee and that obviously needs a determination of the majority of the population. And we are here to try to get the people to respond enthusiastically before this act of democratic radicalism and the government does what it wants to do. Therefore, we ask for facts and we do so with demand, because it is the only one that guarantees us to make the retreat inevitable, which has always done us a lot for. Independence, therefore, we know that it is not only a matter of institutional legal marks, but it is a matter of institutional legal marks, of institutions, and it is above all a matter of a majority of the people who want it to be effective. And we remember that there's a majority of this population that the right to self-determination thinks it's a right to use. And, besides, there's a very important part of this people who want to exercise the right to self-determination because they want to end certain tyranny in the State, but they also want to end tyranny in the elites, we don't lose sight of it. The reference, therefore, for us, we have always said, is not a point of end, is a step. It's a grace, yes, essential and irreplaceable. And there's nothing, there's nothing you can do about us collapsing, or just the State, because, if we collapsing now, we'll probably give the message we collapsing from now on. The State can dissolve the Parliament, it did so with Franco and it can continue with the Lord Millo. That they dissolve the Parliament; the Government must continue to call and make possible the referendum of '1 October, because then it will be when the world sees that, while there is a people who will vote on 1 October, there are no others who do the same thing that is ugly in Faixist dictatorships. Who today questions the transformative potential of the reference from conservative positions, and, on the part of some, we understand it perfectly. And who asks for more guarantees from this reference, who asks that there be a joint strategy to embrace the broad heads of the people, here we have to say to them: "I am there in time. I am in time to work, to expand this base that demands to be able to exercise the right to self-determination. There's still time. If not, if it is to re-edit a new stage of the process, that some have a long experience, come from the right or come from the left, with us that do not count, because this does not come from a new election or from progressive or conservative majorities; this does not go from election, from party interests, from falling down, from no one's prerogatives. This is because a whole people can express themselves. You make the changes you want, but we go to the reference. That the government put in the ballot boxes, that people put in the rest. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.131.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. Then there's the word Mr. Germà Gordó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.132.0	Yes, thank you, President. Very briefly. In the first place, thank the President for the explanation he gave us, an explanation I think detailed, extensive, and not because it was compulsory less to thank. In the second place, also gratify the work done for Councillor Jané, for Councillor Munté and for Councillor Ruiz. I think they've been worthy rulers of this country. And, in the third place, to wish much, much luck to our advisors who represent us all as citizens of Catalonia. All right, all right,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.133.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Gordó. Next is the words of Mr Lluís Corominas, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.134.0	Thank you, President. I admit to you that I may be affected by a little jet lag or the evil of having been in the Bureau for so long, but either they have no reaction capacity or they simply have not listened to what the president said. You have made the intervention that you have planned; in some cases, as they are already coming..., you have only made the phrase of the day: taking advantage of the fact that the president gives the audience, you have sought the phrase..., so the "Manolo" of the drum, the "troll", or any other expression of these, sometimes lucky, sometimes, almost always, very little lucky. Therefore, this little ability that you have had to adapt to the reasons for which the president appeared, which was to explain the change of government..., you did not want this, you would, in some cases, make your speech, and in the others, as in the case of Mr. García Albiol, verbally attack, as we have been used to, lacking respect in most of his interventions. Well, we appreciate those explanations the president gave us. And, obviously, as always, he has legitimized it to make the changes that matter and also the legitimity of advisors and advisors to do what they think is right at every moment. At these very hours, President Macron's government's chief of staff has resigned, just as it does in so many governments – just as it does in so many governments. And, therefore, this legitimacy, from the outset, as Mr. Iceta said very well. Also, let's not fool anyone: the political moment is what it is. We presented ourselves as independent formation, together for the Yes, to achieve a state close to independence. We got the results that we got in 2015 and we want to legitimize ourselves through a reference. Who's the stranger to, huh? And we want to do so through a political process that is as legitimate as anyone else, and that we ask that, just as we must respect the political projects that you have, you respect ours. It seems that this is not true, when we want to push our political project forward, and in turn you always have the truth. With regard to the councillors who have taken a step on the side – Councillor Munté, Councillor Ruiz and Councillor Jané – they are the ones who have brought us here, too, with all their commitment. And it is very unfair what was said; on the part of the groups that attacked them until yesterday, it now turns out that they are the world's best advisors, simply because they believe that they are unionists. They do them very badly, saying this, because it is very unfair: for their compromise, for the work they have done, which has been very, as it has been said, and because it is not true, more. If we're here, too – and if we're two months away from being able to do the reference – because Constellera Ruiz, Constellera Munté and Constellera Jané have worked to get here, and now they've made a relay because we have to get to the end. And, therefore, it is very unfair what you have done, it is of little political honesty, those who have tried to confront in this way. And their reasons... if they so much respect them, respect the reasons they have and they, not the ones you think they do. Don't they think so? So, respect them. The policy is above all respect for what the other says, and, if not, it is simply demagogic. Well, respect us. While speaking to the parliamentary groups, as they come from the legal sphere – thanks, Mr. Iceta, for having attributed me the paternity of the Law of Transparency, it is not true, but thanks; well, it worked much more people, as you know – I have dedicated myself to making the letter of rights of our advisers, eh? And our counselors have a few rights. For example, the right to make your teams and to make the stores that you think are convenient. They have the right to be judged for what they do and not the hardships you have laid on the table. They have a right, too, to have ideology; now it turns out that they cannot have ideology or that they can only have one: to want to be between Spain passes what passes. And above all they have right to keep their name and surname. Because, clearly: « catalibans, « kamikazes, « aiatol·las suicides, including, to the president, « trol. Well, a little respect. [[applause]] – a little respect. Regarding the new councillor – Mrs Clara Ponsatí – and the new councillors – Mr Turull and Mr Forn – thank you for taking this turn at this political moment. The support of Junts for the Yes; in the end, there are many interventions, but the majority group is Junts for the Yes, so you have us at your side and we value this courage to assume the repte at this time. It seemed to me, Mrs. Arrimadas, that you were questioning the trajectory of the counselors. Well, or they haven't read all the resumes, or they've given them only a part, or after that of "kamikazes and aatolls" they no longer have the ability to read for real what Mr. Forn, Mr. Ponsati and Mr. Turull have dedicated in this life, that they have a long, not only political, path, but that they can also personally give... in any case, surely – they can believe a long path. Well, we're also asking you to help yourself for what you're doing, not for everything you've said. They have the opportunity, they must have the opportunity, they must be able to be judged for what they will do. And respect what you have said, respect this change, too, some considerations. From everything that has been felt, if this ideology that we want to defend ourselves through Junts for the Yes, through this government, is it lawful that we do it, why this constant agriculture, why this bad professional roll, almost, that you transmit? A few days ago you said: "Here is the end of the revolution of the smiles. No, it's you who are permanently in a bad shape, and that's what they're saying – that's what they're saying. There is not a point of positivity to the king, and we do not want to have this point, and therefore we will fight against this; we will fight against this among other things because they say lies. Mrs. Arrimadas made us the toilet of "how it is folded... and so on. Have you heard any of the counselors or counselors who have ceased, some of the officers who have ceased neither a toilet nor a bad word? - Did you hear me? You know, for example, a Beatriz Pérez, from Tarragona, director until now from Ciutadans, who says: "I leave Ciutadans because my opinion has not been taken into account. Hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, hey, [[Greetings.]] Mr. Rabell, do you always take the reference, another shot? Help us. How do we do it, to keep guarantees? Help us, give us solutions. [[Greetings.]] The CEO – the CEO –, Mr.Rabell, says that 47,7_per_cent of his voters – 47,7_per_cent of his voters – are in favour of a reference not granted, and the other, a 35,5_per_cent, in favour of a reference granted. Help us, Mr. Rabell, because it will help your voters, and in the end they will not vote for it, if not. Well, in any case, you're also taking over the State. Well, what's the status? What we have now is not what we voted for. The people of Catalonia did not vote for it, this Statute. Do not embrace this Status [[applause]] - No, I don't. Well, I'm done. Agraim, president, the explanations. We give support to our advisors. And even though it's a little unfair, Mr. Iceta, I want to end up with a date of his own, one of the classics in this Parliament. Any 2006, July, textbook, free of sessions: "On behalf of our parliamentary group, the support for its decision, president, to reshape the Government. Share with you the criteria that the Government has to face the reference with a homogeneous criteria. Miquel Iceta. No more, thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.135.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Corominas. Thank you all very much. The session is suspected up to two-quarters of four.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.136.0	It's part of the session. Too late to all and so to all. [[Proposal for the reform of Parliament's Rules of Procedure]] [[211-00001/11]] The fourth item on the agenda is the debate and vote on the opinion of the Committee on Rules of Procedure on the proposed reform of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament. In the first place, the parliamentary groups will intervene to defend the reserved items and, if necessary, the items subsequent to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees that has been presented. In the first place, has the word, on behalf of the Grup Parlamentari of Ciutadans, the Lord José María Espejo.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.137.0	Thank you, Madam President. Honourable members of the Government, welcome the ones I am—Mr. Ponsatí, Mr. Forn—well, I suppose today the members of the Junts pel Parliamentary Group will be happy, the members of Convergence, the members of Esquerra, the members of the CUP. Today is the day that on this... the independents... Mr. Germà Bel is also pleased. I'm glad, because I'm glad you have joy, even for a short time, I'm always glad about that. Today... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] For a short time. In the poor man's house the joy lasts little...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.138.0	Please, they're not dialing.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.139.0	... and I believe that in this case – in this case – it will be so, Mr. Bel. Today we take the Matrix pill, the Parliamentary Matrix, huh? We've already entered another dimension with this Regulation. Today you will adopt the Single Reading Rules, and the truth is that it makes sense, this is the single reading, because all this has to be read from a single point of view, no matter how much you sell it as a way of doing us a favor to the rest of the parliamentary groups, of facilitating our parliamentary work. Anyway, thank you for your generosity. This was explained by the Councillor today, Mr Turull, when he was rapporteur on this proposal for a regulation. This would make life easier for all parliamentary groups. But the truth is that the opposition parliamentary groups have not been asked to do so. Anyway, thank you for your generosity, but you didn't have to. All this, as I say to you, is read in a single way: " Above all – above all – we want independence, and everything else – the rights of Members, the rules, the laws, the regulations, the Guarantee Board, the Venice Commission, the UN, the European Union, etc. – we do not care – we do not care. And that's the point. We'll do the Matrix regulations, our particular Matrix, to do what we want. And that is what this plenary today will certainly approve with the votes of those who represent less Catalans against the votes of those who represent more Catalans. That is the case, the votes of Convergence, Esquerra, the CUP and I do not know whether in this case the Member accused, Mr Gordó, will allow, representing less Catalans than the Members of the rest of the opposition, to approve the Matrix regulation. And I say of Matrix because you, for a long time now, have been immersed in the Matrix of the process, which had only partially entered this Parliament. But now they want to regulate this Parliament with the rules of Matrix. I ask you... We can have a technical debate on single readings, emergencies, deadlines, amendments and everything you want, which I particularly love as a lawyer, but I think it is better to ask you to speak clearly at once, with this reform of the Rules of Procedure, not for us to understand you – that we know perfectly well what you want to do with this reform of the Rules of Procedure – but for people to understand you, right? , which is the most important thing, that people understand. I ask you – and I know it's a lot to ask – to be brave in this case. I already know that in your group – in the government it is very clear, and in your group – who is brave, who is telling the truth and what you think, many times, you stay out, you run out of armchair. But I ask you sincerely. In fact, I believe that the reason for making this regulation is simply fear, fear of democratic opposition. That is why they have to make regulations, to silence the democratic opposition, to gag the democratic opposition. We can talk – we can talk – about whether the single reading is appropriate, whether it is legal, whether it has been used here or there, that precisely this morning it seemed to Mr Puigdemont that it seemed fatal that it had been used with the reform of the Constitutional Court; we can discuss it; it certainly was not the best way to make a change to a rule of that kind. But, you know, you have a lot of inconsistencies: Mr Puigdemont feels bad about the one reading for that, but then he wants to use it for other things; he feels bad about the Constitutional Court, but then he goes to the Constitutional Court to file appeals. Finally, I ask the members of Junts for one thing.Yes, and I also ask them, without fears – without fears – to tell all Catalans. I do not know whether you will be the spokesman for your group in this reform proposal, Mr Torrent, but I would like to ask you, ask you a question and see if you want to answer me: is the reform of this regulation in order to pass the laws of referendum and legal transitivity by one reading? It's very simple the question – it's very simple the question. And I ask you to have the courage to tell the Catalans. It is clear what my opinion is, that of the whole opposition, that of the Council of Guarantees Statutes, that of the lawyers of the Parliament, that of the whole press, but I would like to hear your opinion, that of the spokesman of the group that promotes reform, whose most important point is the one reading, and ask you to answer us to the whole opposition if the reform of the one reading that is done in this regulation is to approve – it is to approve – the laws of referendum and legal transition. Simple question, question that we all sincerely give, we all have an affirmative answer, but it would be good if you, who have never recognized it, had the courage to tell us all here. What happens – what happens – is that it's the same in the... I don't know if they're telling you what you have to answer, but the question is easy, just as in the government maybe there's a certain fear of answering this question or saying things in public and maybe this also happens in the parliamentary group. Because, of course, it is very wrong to say – it is very wrong to say – that they want to turn this Parliament into a populist assembly, where the opposition is given five_minutes, and thank you, to approve for urgency and without further discussion a law that changes the whole legal framework – the whole legal framework – of Catalonia from a pen. And they do, I insist, because they are afraid; fear of the opposition of this Parliament, diverse, plural, which has absolutely divergent positions on key issues, even on the question of the referendum, but that we all think that what they want to do with this regulation is a cacicada – a cacicada. The law of transitibility, an impossible law, on the other hand. A law that implies the same – the same – as if we change the laws of physics so that from now on things will fall up, right? A Matrix regulation – a Matrix regulation – to approve the Matrix laws – the Matrix laws –; laws, on the other hand, that will not be laws, that will have no value, that will be nothing more than a paper with ink for a lot of theatrical paraphernalia that you want to give them. Papers with ink, never read. Matrix doesn't work. And this reform must also be read in a very clear key: you, gentlemen of Convergence, are not used to having opposition – you are not used to having opposition. To the last opposition leader they had, who no longer made much opposition, let alone any, they offered him a position on the electoral list and a chair in the government, and ready, all arranged. « Do you also want independence? Well, here, sit here and don't say a word about corruption, because Matrix doesn't have corruption. In Matrix the 3_per_cent does not exist. And see if it has worked that he himself checks within the government that there are signs of corruption, and neither mu – nor mu. The truth, gentlemen of Convergence, was that it was a master move. But, of course, they did not count – they did not count – that apart from the docile Esquerra there were other parties in the opposition, such as Citizens, that it is seen to be something more annoying than Esquerra with this of corruption, these cosillas to guarantee the rights of parliamentarians, these minutiae that we must respect the rules and regulations and so on. "What a typhism, a little hyperventilated counselor would say, isn't it? So what do we do? Well, it's okay. We take a regulation from the sleeve to cover the mouth to the opposition and suddenly pass the laws that we want without debate, without amendments, in five_minutes I present to you and in five_minutes I approve you: the regulation gags, the regulation gags the Parliament of Catalonia. Here we have processed not long ago a law for the creation of the region of Lluçanès that has been processed as a normal law, as must, of course, be with its amendments, with its papers, etc.. But to change suddenly the legal regime of Catalonia, all the legislation, all the institutions, by one reading, in five_minutes and by extraordinary urgency. That's what they're trying to do. And if you don't, I'm asking you to tell us. It's a very clear question I asked you. We think we know what they're trying to do, but it would be good if they told the Catalans publicly. And if they do not, they will do as the government does, which hides, which deceives, which lies, because it does not want to assume the responsibilities of what they themselves claim to defend. The Council of State Guarantees, the lawyers of this Parliament have been giving it « zascas after « zascas, until « zascas finale, which will arrive - will arrive. But you simply and plainly despise those institutions. They despise them because they cannot be called otherwise what they do with the Guarantee Board, the lawyers and the different institutions that have been telling them that in this way they cannot. Because your project is respectable, it is legitimate, but it cannot be done against the institutions, against the rules, against the regulations, against what guarantees the rights of Members, who are the representatives of so many, hundreds of thousands of Catalans, millions of Catalans, who are also more than those who represent you. [[Greetings.]] But you guys don't care. We have a democratic mandate that was to declare independence in eighteen months. Oh, no! , "declaring independence, no: making a referendum. Anyway, it doesn't matter. Whatever happens to them at every moment. And, depending on what is happening to them at every moment, they are stretching or enticing the rules, regulations and institutions as a gum. And that is to despise the Catalan institutions – it is to despise the Catalan institutions. And to anyone who comes to say that you can't do that, out, go, expelled. That's the way you have to act. And that is the way in which they have acted in the reform of this regulation. And I insist – and I insist – that it would be a minimally courageous act to tell us if they are really going to use this reform of the Regulation, the purpose of this reform of the Regulation is, among other things, to pass those laws by one reading. Tell us already, recognize it; that people can judge it and think what they understand you should think about this issue, because you have never recognized it. I ask you to have the courage to do that. I don't know, if they will shut up and they won't dare, like always; I don't know, if they shake their legs, like always, and, in any case, I'm sure that everything they claim won't do anything, like always, or at least like the last five years, in which every January 1st they said that already, that this year yes, that already plays and, look, here we are, like always. Anyway, this is his way of acting. For you, democracy – for you, democracy – is not an end, but a simple means. And because with democracy you cannot achieve its end, then you pervert the environment, you skip democratic rules, you cheat and you hide, you make custom regulations, which is what proves that you don't really believe in democracy, even if you fill your mouth with it. But, look, don't count on us. And, it seems – it seems – they will also not count on the rest of the opposition, which, I insist, and I know that they do not like, but it is a fact, it is an absolutely true and objective fact, all the Members of the opposition that we will be voting against today's reform of the Rules of Procedure represent more Catalans than all of you who are going to vote in favour of this reform of the Rules of Procedure. [[Greetings.]] Today they are going to adopt the regulation that puts this Parliament in Matrix, as I say to you, but remember that what goes wrong in Matrix has consequences in real life. I only ask you to pay them and not to force all Catalans to do so. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.140.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. On behalf of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, Mr Ferran Pedret has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.141.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisers, Members and Members, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, as it is well known, was not in favour and still does not support a reform of the Rules at these times, in the circumstances in which it has occurred and, above all, in the way in which all this reform that we are considering has been discussed. As you know, we opposed the creation of a joint stand for the drafting of this reform of the Rules, and I think it is worth noting that no opposition groups except the one supporting the Government, which is that the CUP, participated in the joint stand. A joint statement which, according to the news, was developed with extraordinary speed; in less than one quarter of an hour they had granted all the contents of this proposed reform of the Rules presented. And of course, one of the things we say is: "We have a relatively recent reform of the Catalonian Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which has been produced with a remarkable degree of consensus, which has substantially modernised some of the procedures and procedures, has also speeded them up and, if we are to review the Rules, we are called upon to do so at least with a degree of consensus similar to that which has been produced. In fact, it is the recommanable and it is what the Rules, in their current draft, try to provoke when they say that the reform mechanisms are through a joint pose; try to provoke this. But this is a result that very clearly could not be produced, ever since the beginning, because, already on the Board of Spokesmen, the four groups that today we are giving our opinion against this reform of the Rules we said that we did not participate in the need to reform the Rules or to do so in this way. And we could ask ourselves why this brief failure to reform the Rules on the part of the Groups of Junts for the Yes and the CUP, why there are obsessed in this way two groups that have publicly exhibited so little affection for formalism and legalism in the present legislature. It's a legitimate question. The problem, Mr Espejo, is that I do not intend to answer the question you asked, but the spokespersons, both from the government and from parliamentary groups, have been wrongly announcing and right-wing what the intention of this regulatory reform was. And they didn't just say it in public statements to the media, but even in the debate, in the debate on the question, it happened to manifest itself without any type of problem that this was a reform that was obviously focused on allowing express processing, with the slightest possible disruptions, of these disconnection laws that were mutating by name, right? , « of the Catalan legal system, « of transitoryity, the « law of the reference, whatever it is, to bring them to Parliament with the highest celerity, with the minimum possible debate and with the minimum opportunities for some interbank to enter. Of course, the problem is that some of these interbanks, from the perspective of the majority of Parliament, are and are configured as the rights of parliamentary groups: the possibility that the initiative is published, the possibility that they can submit papers to the legislative initiative, the possibility to request an opinion from the Council of State Guarantees respects this legislative initiative, in short, guarantees that they are not only for the Members and Members, in order to preserve their own in office, is the possibility to access public bodies in equal conditions and to exercise them also, to develop them in equal conditions, but above all they are guarantees that I am from the right to political participation through representatives, that is to say, guarantees that they are from the citizen and from the citizen. And to maintain these guarantees, to put an express transit for an absolutely transcendent question as a law that purports to give cover to a consultation, referendum, that they say they want to do the 1st of October and that they can not manage to have any of the guarantees that are in the international standards in the matter of electoral processes or in the code of good practices of the Venice Commission, or, even more, to pass through here, through these mechanisms that you intend to do, laws that claim a disconnection of the existing legal order is a question of such transcendence that from the top of the manners you could pass through mechanisms like those that you intend to do. Why, in the background, that's what we're talking about, huh? We are talking about his will, his attempt to substantially alter the process of forming the will of the chamber, in a clear and overwhelming, if necessary, opposition rights. Because this did not go, as some spokesman said, to make it easier for a parliamentary group to promote an initiative and then ask for a single reading; it went to suppress all possible parliamentary procedures in such a way that the thing could pass quickly and thinly, let's say, without anyone saying either such or beast; of this it went, of an authentic overrun. And, look, a question like changing the rules of a chamber is a relatively important question, and they ask us, they remind us of that in the legal notes that were issued respecting the question of the readers of that chamber. We are told that parliamentary rules are the maximum expression of the organisational autonomy and the functioning of the chambers; they are said to be materially the main standard for the configuration of the jus in parliamentary office, which guarantees the fundamental right of political participation through representatives, right that in a democratic system includes in particular the protection of the rights of parliamentary minorities, obviously. And remember that it is appropriate for any reform of the Rules to have as broad a consensus as possible, as has been usual in successive reforms of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. But it is that if there is not enough with this reminder, and many others, many other technical, legal, opportunities observations, which also make Parliament's readers, there has continued to be a very interesting opinion of the Council of State Guarantees, which is that practically it is worth reading simply what it says about the intent to pass laws as transcendent as you announce for the mechanisms for those who intend to reform this Regulation. They tell us what to consider – the statutory guarantee board, huh? , an organ dependent on the Parliament of Catalonia – consider that ‘the single reading procedure must be used exceptionally for the approval of legislative initiatives which do not require extensive deliberation and parliamentary work because of the poor political or social relevance of its object or because of the lack of technical complexity of its regulation. It does not seem that the question of secession is a question of little technical complexity. They also remind us that, for what it does to the Catalan institutional sphere, they value that "a possible proposal for reform of the State or its laws of basic development, let us say it, made in an express or tactic way, "takes some point and granted, they should also stay out of the abst of this simplified specialty of legislative processing, in the measure that does not allow the level of political participation that, on the other hand, guarantees the ordinary way. Tell us the Board of State Guarantees also that they value that "it would be desirable that Article 135– that is where the mother of the or, eh? , the single reading – « explicitly provide for the procedure and the conditions of exercises relating to the power to submit full or partial statements to the proposals of the law, as well as to the draft law, on behalf of the parliamentary groups. They also say that the single reading ‘is not the most suitable procedure for the exercise of legislative power nor is it the right one to approve any type of legislative initiative, which they believe ‘the requirements of empowerment consisting of natural or simpleness, which they say must accompany these initials for a single reading,' contain certain material limits which condition the use of this procedural specialty. We are told that the single reading is essentially defined by its restrictive and exceptional use, that it is not appropriate for the processing of substantial complex content laws or for significant innovation in a sector of the legal order or for the structural reform of the institutional system; nor would it be an appropriate option for cases of high social or political sensitivity of matter in which there is a clear lack of minimal consensus among parliamentary forces. We are told that this legislative process, through the single reading, continues to bring a point to the order of the day at the request of two parliamentary groups, must always, inescapably, respect certain parliamentary procedures such as the admission to the procedure of the initiative by the Bureau, the qualification, its publication, the possibility of submitting documents, the possibility of requesting an opinion to the Council of State Guarantees. In short, what they are saying to them is that this parliamentary reform does not serve absolutely for that for which you have designed it – it does not serve absolutely. And I believe that from the simple reading of the fragments that I have selected from the Council of State Guarantees it is understood from another Faristol some days ago, that it is only from an incomprehensible act of exacerbated faith that the Council of State Guarantees has validated this reform of the Rules of Parliament of Catalonia. So, we, all of us, all of us who will vote in favour of certain points that seem to us to have been heard because, in the end, they ended up asking, let's just say, it was a certain turn in this reform of the Catalonian Rules, so we will vote in favour of some of these points, but we will vote against a reform of the Rules that you clearly want to use for something that...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.142.0	Mr. Pedret, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.143.0	...you can't use any of the ways. Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.144.0	Thank you. Next, he has the word, on behalf of Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot, Mr Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.145.0	Good afternoon. Thank you, President. Under the appearance of a mere reform of the Rules, this proposal for law attacks the bone spring of parliamentary democracy and undermines the political participation rights of Catalonian citizens. That's exactly what the Board of State Guarantees told you. This proposal, which is presented as a strategy to try to circumvent the government of the PP and its bunkerization, can in fact turn into a deception to the Parliament of Catalonia and the citizenry of this country. That is why, because what we are dealing with is not just the reform of the Rules, but the law of the Referendum, I want to reiterate, again today, the commitment of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot with the celebration of the Referendum, which was agreed by the Parliament of Catalonia on October 6th. I remember: an inclusive reference of the Catalan society's joint venture, and a reference can never be included because unilaterality with which it is planted is not only with regard to the State, it is above all a unilaterality with regard to good part of the Catalan society. We want a reference that is carried out with democratic guarantees, and someone finds out when we do that. Mr Turull, this "democratic guarantees" is not a question of the typhisms, it is the essence of democracy. "Guarantees means to have an electoral standard approved beforehand, not a few days before the referendum. "Guarantees is supposed to have an electoral centre that knows the citizenry and, for example, can challenge it. "Guarantees means having an independent electoral administration, not created to serve a partisan objective. Only an inclusive reference with democratic guarantees can have international recognition and have real legal and political effects, which is what we pretend, I suppose, right? , because sometimes one up to think that what is claimed is another different thing. These requirements of the referendum are not the whims of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot or the obstacles that we pose to them; this is the conditions of the resolution approved by the Parliament of Catalonia that everyone must respect, especially the groups that voted for it. And now it's pretty obvious that what you put together for the Yes and the UPC and announce us for the 1st of October is not a reference or anything that you put together. The simple fact that sixty-six days before the inn date of '1 October has not yet been presented to Parliament the law that governs this celebration, says everything; sixty-six days before, has not been presented. We share – and our company Lluís Rabell said this morning – that the main person responsible for this situation, the one who brought us here is aggression, the refusal to dialogue, the bunkerization of the People's Party. But, please, this cannot be used as an alibi for anyone to make out plans with respect to a part of Catalan society, to do so without democratic guarantees. This is all about not having international recognition, not having any effects, and I'm afraid it will generate a few doses of frustration. To respond to the government's bailout of the PP, yes, but expanding and not reducing the social base of support to the reference; expanding and not reducing the social supply of mobilizations. And in this response to the PP's bunkerization, it's not all right. It is not worth justifying the performance of the PP Government..., use this to justify behaviors that violate democratic rights of citizens and their political representatives in this Parliament. As compañero Lluís Rabell said in the totality debate, it is not possible to absolve new democratic files by climbing democratic rights – it is not possible. The use of this Regulation to try to approve without democratic guarantees the law of the reference has been and continues to be the main reason for our opposition to this reform. We have told them, other opposition groups have told them, but the Board of Lletrats has also told them, the Board of State Guarantees has told them. And, despite that, you continue with the picker to climb the democratic rights of those who don't think like you. The Board of State Guarantees has told you very strong and unanimous things, composed for prestigious jurists, which even some of them have been offered for the people who push this reform of the Rules. They have been told that the single reading procedure is constitutional and does not violate the Statute; but they have also been told that it cannot be used for any law, they have been told that it cannot be used for regulations of special constitutional relevance, and I assume that the law of the reference is to be considered one of these. He has told them that it cannot be used in any way, that it must be used exceptionally, only for the approval of legislative initiatives that do not require an extensive deliberative process of parliamentary work, because of the poor political and social relevance. I suppose you don't defend me that the law of the referendum doesn't have political and social relevance, and it doesn't have its debate relevance. He tells us that the reform of the Statute and the laws of basic development must be left out of the single reading procedure. It is clear from the advice of the Council of State Guarantees that this single reading procedure cannot be used either for the reference law or for the transitional law. But it doesn't just tell us this, it also tells us that this procedure cannot be used to contain the representative function of parliamentarians, because it affects the essence of the parliamentary debate and of the sovereignty of the Parliament of Catalonia, and that it can guarantee, as well as this legitimacy and as well as this democratic function of the representatives of the Parliament, that they can submit papers, be discussed and voted. When this point arrives, I want to ask Mr. Roger Torrent, not the one asked by Mr. Mirror, I want to ask him another thing: do you intend to approve the law of the reference for one reading? That is the question you must answer us today. [[Widow's remorse.]] Together for the Yes and the CUP until now they are supporting this anti-democratic attitude with the argument that this, or worse, is what the PP does to Spain. Miri, second together for the Yes and the CUP, as the PP at the Congress of Deputies abuses the single reading and raises democratic rights, here is the right to do the same. So, no. This argument is of poor democratic authority – scarce – and can be used to cover the PP's mouth, but it does not serve before Catalonia Yes, it is. Some of us have repeatedly and forcefully opposed the use of the single reading at the Congress of Deputies. We did so before the reform of Article 135 of the Spanish Constitution, when a plural group, of which Joan Tardà, Joan Ridao – currently a member of this Parliament – Gaspar Llamazares and Joan Herrera, were part, they refused to participate in that vote and denounced it. We have done some again – company Joan Josep Nuet and myself – before the universal justice reform laws and before the Constitutional Court reform law. So, well, let me tell you, from the modesty but from the moral authority that gives us opposition to the cacicades when they are doing the Congress of Deputies, which now, with this moral authority, we oppose when these cacicades intend to deploy to the Parliament of Catalonia. Moreover, with this strategy to respond to the anti-democratic authoritarianism of the PP, doing exactly the same, you are passing from braking, because you are denying that the single reading procedure can be presented. And I have to tell you that even this right is respected in the single reading processes of the Congress of Deputies. They've been able to do it, some of them. In this battle to raise rights as to how to face this PP bunkering, you have become accustomed to not respecting the rights of the minorities of this Parliament. We asked for the appearance of the constitutional right professors, and you said no, Mr. Turull, because you said that the best experts in Parliament were the graduates. We, as a result, asked the readers to make a report, and then you also refused to do so. In short, they have caused the same people, following their obligation, to be obliged to submit a report of officers making observations and proposals. And when we set up before this situation and before the advice of the Council of State Guarantees, we go back to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure so that we can make a good debate and try to marry things and try to make the rule that comes out of it a rule that respects democratic rights, they also oppose this. You're going through braking. And those who spend the day giving and bringing democracy credentials have a rather curious concept of democracy, in which there are constitutional right professors, about Parliament's electorates, about the Council of Guarantees Statutes, about the parliamentary debate, about the parliamentary opposition groups, about the left, about even all the members of the government who have doubts, about a part of the Catalan society, about everyone who carries them. They will understand, therefore, that this is not much, much like the democracy that we all want for this country. They're still in time to reconsider this behavior. They have very reasonable considerations that can vote and save a rule in conditions. Take today's commitment not to use the single reading to approve the law of the reference. A law of the referendum that has heavy democratic deficits, that invalidate it to call an inclusive referendum and with democratic guarantees. But if, moreover, it approves of the single reading procedure, it will still undermine its democratic legitimacy more, and it will not do so before the Spanish State, it will do so before an important part of Catalan society. If you do this, you will be pulling stones over the roof of the referendum and making the referendum even harder, because it will bring social support and democratic legitimacy. Please think a little before you do this, because what you can't handle is that you're trying to get us to a bottom where I'm afraid we can only find frustrations. We are still in time to avoid it – we are still in time to avoid it –, they vote for the statements we have presented to them, which are very reasonable, and they give up approving the law of the reference for one reading. Think about the country and the right to celebrate this reference, and not about you and your own autonomous choices, which I'm afraid is what you're thinking. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.146.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Next is the words of Mr. Alejandro Fernández, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.147.0	Thank you very much, President. I am sorry to be unable to greet here and right now the President of the Generalitat and the Vice-President; they must consider that this issue is not important or they do not want to appear in the photos of the debate we are holding. A few months ago, U.S. Congressman Dana Rohrabacher visited Catalonia to make an enthusiastic defense of the process. He did interviews with various personalities, met with the delegate of the Government of Catalonia, and should not have been very happy, for the comments he made. On the other hand, with the president of the Generalitat, the exhibition of ruffles and caranthias and sympathies they had was absolutely anthological. It is known that the interview with Puigdemont had a disturbing effect on Mr. Rohrabacher, because upon his arrival and return to the United States, and without a solution of continuity, he went to Congress and there, in parliamentary appearance, asked a scientist of NASA – I quote textually – "if they had finally found on Mars aliens of ancient civilizations. [[Rialles.]] Now we know why Mr Rohrabacher's enthusiasm for our president. And it is that, after years of unsuccessful search for travel around the world, and when he had surely lost hope, he had finally found in the world a politician as far away from reality as he himself. [[Some applause.]] It should be said that it would be tremendously amusing to explain what Mr Rohrabacher would think of this reform of the Rules of Procedure, what planetary interpretation he would do, but it will not be necessary, because if something has happened in the last few days it is that the Government has filled itself with Catalan Rohrabacher, people far from reality. There is one, even, who pretends to make us believe that he usually dissolved the Mossos d'Esquadra, as if it were a Catalan Chuck Norris. [[Rialles.]] But, well, that, in short, is the conjuncture, the political climate; that, in short, is the dantesque spectacle of Catalan politics on which we are debating something that is tremendously serious. And, unfortunately, this reform of the regulation cannot escape its lunatic strategy and completely removed from the democratic reality of Europe. And one thing has to be added, unfortunately: in addition to a lunatic strategy that is far from the political and democratic reality of Europe, you practice an absolutely unacceptable cynicism. Because only from a tremendous cynicism can you make the interpretation you make of the advice of the Council of State Guarantees to bring it to your ground. What does that opinion say? The opinion states: "The single reading procedure can only be applied in laws of little relevance and which do not affect the institutional system. You present, with all the cynicism of the world, an amendment that subliminally what you end up saying is that separating Catalonia from Spain would have little relevance and would not affect the institutional system. And they stay so wide. It should also be recognized that it is difficult to get out here when you see this sort of thing. When one dedicates oneself to politics – and I think it happens to everyone, we have talked about it on many occasions – what one aspires to when one arrives here is to defend the common good; when it is necessary and the better, to reach agreements; to have ideological debates between left, right, nationalisms, non-nationalisms, by passionate, hard and vehemently whatever they are. What you don't expect, really, is the defachability and cynicism of everything you're doing. [[Some applause.]] And I tell you with all the clarity: defachation and cynicism. Look, you have to ask them, since you have this defachability, a little bit of courage – it has been said before –; courage to be able to say – I don't know if it will be Mr Torrent or whoever it is – if you are going to use this regulation to approve by one reading the laws of the referendum and of legal transitoryness. I ask you to do so for courage, but also for transparency, which you say so much to defend; for democracy and for political and personal decency, because I would like to think – and I tell you very sincerely – that there is still a pinch of decency on this side of the parliamentary bench. Look, in the previous debate on the Rules of Procedure that we held in this Chamber, he pointed out that identity totalitarianism..., he sometimes laughed, if he was not dividing Catalan society in a very worrying way. Allow me to develop some of the reflections that I put on the table that day and that for lack of time we could not develop. The first: what you intend to do, say what you say, does not fit in any democracy in the world, no one would allow it – no one. Do not pretend and reproach us that we want to behave like all the democracies in our environment. Because in all the democracies of the world – in all the democracies of the world – political power is subject to law, and parliamentary majorities – parliamentary majorities – always meet constitutional requirements – in all the democracies of the world. Obviously, in Venezuela of his defender Nicolás Maduro, no; in Cuba of his promoter Silvio Rodríguez, probably neither, or on the Mars of Mr Rohrabacher I imagine neither. But in all democracies in the world the parliamentary majority is subject to constitutional requirements. Do not try to make us commulgate with mill wheels, what you are defending is neither democracy nor anything like it. Because, moreover – in all the democracies of the world and in all the doctrines of the constitutional courts of the great European democracies – all – the rights of parliamentarians are defended and explicitly defended, precisely against what you are doing; also in the Spanish Constitutional Court, which has ruled twice on this matter. A Spanish constitutional court that you only respect when you keep the parliamentary group in the Senate. Look, that same assessment is made by the international community – as mentioned above –; I will also develop the issue a little bit. See, the Venice Commission, in 2010, makes an explicit statement in its annual report on this issue as well. He says, I will read: "Parliamentarism demands publicity in debates and the possibility that all groups can intervene in discussions. He goes on to say: "It is contrary to a legitimate parliamentary democracy that the majority can decide the agenda on its own to allow only those debates in which it feels comfortable. They wrote it seven years ago, but it looks like they were thinking about you. You can get angry, shake the limbs when we tell the truths of the boatman, but, you have to be clear to them, trample the rights of the opposition, delegitimize the Legal Services of the Parliament, stigmatize the political opponent, threaten the officials, purge the dissenters, put fear of the citizenry – you have said – has nothing to do with democracy, absolutely nothing. And you can say whatever you want. And neither cunning summers nor supposedly brilliant wits can change that. Look, you know it – and you, Romeva, too. [[Widow's remorse.]] Look, the spiral of silence has broken, so you're in such a hurry. It must be recognized that it has taken too long to break up. But Serrat, Xavier Sardà, Jordi Évole, Mario Gas, Eduardo Mendoza, Isabel Coixet, etc., people who have nothing to do with the PP or the Government of Spain, have already told them that so no, that you have all the right to be independent, would miss more, but so no. Subverting the constitutional order, no, and not on his behalf. And the loss of social support for you is already absolutely irreversible. How have you reacted to these criticisms of Catalan society itself? Radiating more, if it fits. Their answer to the Catalans who reveal themselves is to call them the botiflers, to dismiss them, if they doubt. Their answer to the Catalans who doubt is to call them traitors. Your response to the Catalans, in general, who disagree with you is the flying kick of Eric Cantona, the trampoline of Christ Stòitxkov, or the conciliatory tantrum of Yoko Ono [[relays]] , conflict mediator, as Paul McCartney used to say. [[Some applause.]] Look, you don't believe in democracy, nor have you ever believed. And his behavior is totally undemocratic. Look, they don't even respect the election results, they've never, ever respected them – they shake the extremities all they want – never. [[Rialles.]] They called plebiscite elections and lost them. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.148.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.149.0	Did they accept the result? Did they accept the result? They didn't accept it. Moreover, they dismissed the only one – the only one – who told them that they had lost them, Mr Antonio Baños. And they keep expelling everyone who doubts. Would you accept a referendum, the result of a referendum, even if it was legal and agreed, if it came out that it did not? They wouldn't accept it. [[Widow's remorse.]] They wouldn't accept it – they wouldn't accept it. [[Greetings.]] They wouldn't accept it: Do you know why? [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Do you know why? President, President, I beg you to give me some time... [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.150.0	Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.151.0	...or a little protection.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.152.0	Mr. Fernández, they applauded him. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.153.0	No, no, President, I don't know...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.154.0	Quiet, and please. Let it end, respect the word tower.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.155.0	Well, I'd ask you please to be a little more flexible because I've been practically taken away for a minute. [[Widow's remorse.]] To tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.156.0	Mr. Fernández...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.157.0	To tell you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.158.0	Mr. Fernández, just a moment, please. He's not running out of time, I'm done. While applauding him, here applauds everyone. Another thing is that I don't let him talk, huh? But cheering, they've applauded everyone. So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.159.0	No, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.160.0	... clapping in this chamber is correct. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.161.0	They wouldn't let me talk.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.162.0	What's not, is that he won't be allowed to talk. So now, please, I can continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.163.0	You wouldn't accept the outcome of a referendum. And they've proved it, because that's why they've passed disconnection laws. Because whatever happens, the decision is made. They don't cheat on us. You use elections and referendums as alibis, because the decision has already been made, which is independence for the brave. It is the Hispanophobic supremacism of the new director of the Mossos. [[Widow's remorse.]] That's his ideology.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.164.0	Please; be quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.165.0	And you will allow me to end in relation to that: you do not want democracy, you want to go for braves. And on that I will end up conveying a message as a spokesman for my parliamentary group. In this hot summer of cunning tricks that awaits us, we wanted to move the entire Catalan society [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] a message of serenity, firmness and tranquility. [[Widow's remorse.]] We will ensure that when this nightmare ends – when this nightmare ends – real democracy, which emanates from the ballot box and the rule of law, prevails. And let's make sure that when this nightmare is over, that you have very little left, all Catalans...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.166.0	Mr. Fernández, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.167.0	... let us once again be proud of a plural Catalonia and of all in a prosperous Spain that today is one of the...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.168.0	He's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.169.0	... four great engines of Europe, one of the great nations of the world. Thank you very much. [[Greetings and cheers.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.170.0	Thank you, Mr. Fernández. [[Widow's remorse.]] Next, the word Anna Gabriel, on behalf of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed. And ask them, please, to keep..., to be silent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.171.0	Well, good-bye again. We would say that the debate surrounding the reform of the Rules could be divided into two parts, as at least. The first is the conception of the Regulation as the self-governing tool of the chamber and, in this sense, therefore, regulates a multitude of questions that, as has been seen, do not worry a lot. And the second conception would be, therefore, the Regulation as an instrument to prevent this country from being able to self-determine, huh? , part where obviously all interventions have been focused so far. We who, as the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed would not have called for a reform of the Rules in this legislature, when the possibility was opened up we dedicated ourselves to rethinking how we could improve this self-government tool. And in this sense, therefore, we have made many proposals. In fact, we are the group that we have made the most proposals for the better. And, therefore, nothing to see with a turn, gentlemen of the PSC, this did not go to round the nose. In the past legislature we did not have the opportunity to devote ourselves to the reform of the Rules and in this we wanted to do so. And we have raised questions that may be minor for you, but that are important for us. We have raised the access of experts and specialists to the documentation consultations and the committees, with many reluctance on the part of some parliamentary groups to open the chamber a little to the functioning of other people who are not Members. We have set a limit on the amount of Members, and we have set that the Members, like very many, can charge three times the minimum interprofessional amount, not to say that it does not support us at all. I don't know what it is to charge Matrix, Mr. from Ciutadans, but what I have clear is that you are interested in continuing to charge as it is, which for us is mass, taking into account how much the people of the street are charging. [[Widow's remorse.]] You will have the opportunity to give support to the issue that limits the sub-deputies, and if you want, then you will vote in favour. We have also raised points about the fact that the votes in the chamber are made explicit, because it may be appropriate to remember who votes that at every moment. We have put forward papers in relation to the publicity of sessions; in relation to the presuppositional process; they are many years of parliamentary chamber operation with a function in relation to the presuppositional process which, in our view, feeds customerism, feeds irresponsibility, and prevents, moreover, that it is bound to compliment a job on the basis of the presuppositions. And we argue, therefore, that those who are at the opposition ask that it is what they are doing when they were in the government have never done, so, like at least, this exercise of cynicism can end. We have also proposed a realignment of parliamentary terms in relation to the debate on motions. We have always said that the times are very tight, that they do not promote a good debate, and, in this sense, we believe that there will also be a few better ones. We have raised a non-sexist perspective in language – I know it probably doesn't matter to anyone, but – it turns out that we have a Speaker of the Parliament who was thinking that we are addressing ourselves as "the Speaker of the Parliament," and we believe, therefore, that this should be improved. We have proposed the recognition of the mechanism of prevention and fight against fraud, and we have thought that there is, therefore, a parliamentary appearance, that the Parliament, by obligation, assists the work of this mechanism of coordination, also in the field of the fight against corruption, not only to give head to the work of the mechanism, but also to make the three-member parliamentary groups appear in its parliament, to explain the finances of its parties. He's also put a lot, a lot, a lot of nerves in some political formations, which they didn't just hear why it was so necessary for the three-wayers to compare—those who are in freedom, understand each other, or those who are alive and not dead on the way. We have also suggested that when a Member is charged for reasons of lucrative corruption, it is understood, therefore, that the condition of a Member is suspended. Because we think that, there, the real problems of the people..., so, it turns out that one of the real problems of the people in this country is that they're tired of stealing it, and they're tired of so much corruption, and they're tired of seeing certain people sitting on certain discounts. And, therefore, we have made a compromise in this sense that we try to approve this matter, and we will age because, at least, when someone is brought to trial orally for corruption, for profit, to distinguish, obviously, people who have spent money on public service for personal work, so you have to give up the bait and stop them waiting for a firm sentence. As we say, in all this battery of items, summarises quickly and, therefore, do not dig into their heads, well, therefore, they will throw at some, others will not be approved. There are, as I say, many reticences to open this chamber and to make its functioning more flexible. And in part, therefore, it's a shame, because for example, one of the things that we have raised is that you would work on this chamber, the public workers on this chamber, it wasn't just the electorate, the parliamentary managers or the uixers. There are a lot of other people working in this house, and in this house I guess it's just as unstoppable that we have legal advice that we have people who clean the rooms every day, and I guess it's essential that there are people who cook, and I guess it's essential that there are people who do the maintenance. But these don't have to be public workers, these are already good for us to come from subcontracted companies and it's just as good for us as they are for their conditions. You also have the opportunity to reverse this. Let's give the same category of recognition to people who get up a lot of time to come here and clean up their errands as to people who give them a good advice. As we say today, this has not generated any interest. That is to say, at the end of the intervention there was talk about the end of these extremes. All right. So, let's go to what they really care about, let's go to this Rule that is amended because you can approve the law of reference. Let's get into the bone spring that you're worried about, so these parliamentarians that I've been here so many years. It is obvious that since the intervention of Ciutadans, passing through that of the PP, PSC and Catalonia Yes, it is possible to argue, therefore, that there is absolute respect for the legislation in force, because everything that comes out of the legislation in force is from time to time in progress. So, we don't have a problem saying that if the current legislation doesn't recognize the right to self-determination of the people, it's legislation that needs to be changed. And if it can't change, it has to overflow. We don't see where the stoppage is. Why, that you do not see that it is absolutely inconsistent to defend the rights of parliamentary minorities and to turn the board to the rights of a majority of the population, that you do want to vote? That you don't see, that your speech doesn't hold? Don't you see he's got an absolute sighting courtesy? [[Greetings.]] You guys, I assume you pretended to believe that this chamber and its untouchable norms bring us to some better conditions of life for the people. We know that we don't – this morning, when we talk about who are the limits of autonomy. I assume that you are content with the norms of this chamber, with the warnings of the Constitutional Court, with the criminal threats, with the crimes that they are planning on some, even, of siege. And, this, you guys find he's very democratic. I suppose you expect us to believe that some – some – who are absolutely responsible that there has been no cleansing of the Franco regime, that there has been no cleansing of the judicial system, no cleansing of the body of teachers, no cleansing of anything in the public administration, the 78 regime, which was inaugurated with an amnesty law that did not allow us to swallow our deaths from the vorals, which has systematically endorsed torture..., you pretend that all this rule, to us, in the democratic world? It's that what's going on, that you took our words, because you gave it democracy, and it's not democracy. You're a democracy god and you don't even mean it to be. [[Widow's remorse.]] He talked a lot. Actually, it's free to talk. Words, words, words, and what this country needs are less words and more revolutions. We will support a reform of the Rules if it serves to raise the barriers to this people to self-determine, of course. And, in addition, if it serves to respond to the state of exception that it wants to establish the Spanish State, we will support a reform of the Rules, of course. And if it's necessary because people can vote on October 1st, we will support a reform of the Rules, of course. Why, do you know what the basic difference is between you and us? That we work to make possible a _framework of decision in which the people of "yes and "no, and you" are expressed [[remorse of the voice]] Meanwhile, you only see the people of "no; we find each other in the street, that's when things are clearer. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.172.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Gabriel. The words of Mr Roger Torrent, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.173.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Fernández, Alejandro Fernández, I'm very sorry to tell you, I know it's hard to tell you this, that the thing that you just did here in this Faristol has not served in any way to cover what we saw this morning at the National Audience. The thing you did here today didn't help to close the picture. [[applause]] of his party president to declare to the National Audience, it did not serve him. Councillors, counsel, especially Councillor Turull, today I appear here as spokesman of the Group of Joints for the Yes, but, in fact, the deputy who has made the post and post rapporteur of this reform of the Rules has been Councillor Jordi Turull ; therefore, a thank you on behalf of our group. Mirin, I'll start reading some quotes. I know they've read it for sure, because they've made reference to the text, but the one that doesn't make it so clear to me – they've read it, yes, obviously – but the one that doesn't make it so clear to me is if they've understood it. I'd say no. I'd say they read it, but they didn't get it. I'll try again, huh? In any case, let me read – it will be short – a couple of sentences related to what the Board of State Guarantees gave. Says: "There is no constitutional or case law limit that prevents the proposal initiative from being established by the single reading expert for a single parliamentary group, in this case the promoter. And he goes on to say: "It does not present itself – the one reading, on the part of a promoter group – "legal problems of constitutionality. In Matrix, I don't know – in Matrix, I don't know –; in Catalonia of the 21st century, in Catalonia of 2017, it seems very clear to me that it is what the Council of Statutory Guarantees says; to me it seems clear. And what the Council of State Guarantees is telling us is that this reform is perfectly statutory and perfectly constitutional – we have just read it – including, including, also, the famous article, Article 135.2; that is to say, the one reading. But this in the background to you is the same, it matters very little, pulling people. In fact, the reform of the Rules, the content of this reform, gives them absolutely the same. They focus on the reform of the Rules. The one who worries you, the one who actually makes you because of the harm you do with regard to what this reform of the Rules can serve. It's what you do. They have come out here, all the groups, taken from Mrs Gabriel, who has actually talked about some of the reforms that have come up in this proposal...; the rest of the groups have come out here and have spoken very little – very little – –, people, in fact, about the reform of the Rules. That's right, they've talked a lot about reference, they've talked a lot about transitory law. Actually, they already have, this, these debates. These debates already have. In a debate, there is a lot of expectation that there will only be a way out of the phobias, a way out of the pores, a way out of the obsessions of all those involved. And to judge what you have said here today, yours for, your obsession with it – from another band is no novelty, no surprise – is to prevent there from being ballot boxes, to prevent democracy and to prevent Catalans and Catalans from voting. That's what worries them, that's what makes them. Let's talk about bravery, let's talk about por. Some of you have come out here to say: "Be brave! All right. So, be brave, and say that actually what makes them so is that Catalans and Catalans can vote. And not us; it doesn't make us because they can vote Catalans and Catalans. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's more, it's more..., and I answer one of the questions that they ask us: "Will the result of the ballot box come to fruition? Of course I do – of course I do. Always. The Democrats have it, Mr. Alexander; the Democrats have it, that we always accept the result of the ballot box. Can you say the same thing? [[Widow's remorse.]] Can you say the same thing? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.174.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.175.0	Thank you, President. Listen, you judge the tool not for what it is, not for what you say the reform of this Regulation, not for what we are debating today, but for what you imagine will serve this tool, this instrument. [[Widow's remorse.]] And today they talk to us, today they talk to us... It's not nervous, quiet – quiet, quiet, quiet, quiet. Today, some groups have spoken to us about ‘the past of braking, other reforms of biting and other beasts that have felt here and that are not yet to be repeated. And they did, they just said it today that some government officials had to go to the police to testify and that they were charged with crimes related to putting the ballot boxes, with crimes related to defending democracy. It seems to you that they can come out here and talk about "biting reform and talking about" stopping past when outside are imputing people to put the ballot boxes because Catalans and Catalans can vote? Does it seem to you that this is not cynicism? You were talking about cynicism, Mr. Fernández. So, look, yeah, that's cynicism: get out here and talk to us, tell us to stop when this is happening a few blocks from here. And when that happens, Mr. Coscubala, it can't be equidistant. When on one side there's democracy, the polls, and on the other side there's the police and the courts can't be equidistant. [[Greetings.]] It cannot be equidistant in any way, Mr. Coscubiela: either it is on one side or it is on the other side. And today, all of us, especially, but I also expected from you, it is up to us to defend democracy. Other than that, we know, they're going to the Constitutional Court. It took them time to tell them to go to the Constitutional Court. I see that Mr. García Albiol does it with his head. In fact, to go to the Constitutional they will benefit from a reform of the Constitutional that has been popularly said to him the "Albiol reform – you must remember perfectly why you presented it – ; a reform, precisely, what do you know how it was done? You know perfectly well. It was done for a single reading at the Congress of Deputies. The reform of the Constitution to which you wish to bring this reform of the Rules was done by one reading. And not just that, but without going through the Bureau and out of the ordinary. And you want to give us lessons. [[Greetings.]] The Albiol reform was done for one reading, urgency and without passing through the Bureau. Mrs. Levy, who does it with her head, must be because she remembers, because [[remorse of the voice]] Like it has a lot to do with what they think...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.176.0	Quiet, and please. Quiet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.177.0	...your Madrid companies sure as hell aren't. Listen, they like to ask very much..., according to what, because it is seen that we cannot ask the people of Catalonia, but we can ask and ask here. Well, then, since you like them so much, I do make them one, especially to Mr. Alejandro Fernández, who asked us, and also to Mr. Mirror – yes, I quote it; it seems that you have the benefit of being told something. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, listen, try... – yes, yes, try to answer the questions. It's legitimate that they ask us questions, obviously, but it's also legitimate that we can ask them some questions. Miri, I'm asking you, as you speak of democracy, as you speak of voting, as you speak of anti-democratic reforms, I ask you a question about democracy. Will you abide by what the majority of Parliament says that you will vote in favour of this reform of the Rules or does that seem democratic to you either? You will not only abide by the majority that you have today in the Parliament of Catalonia and that there is this legislature in the Parliament of Catalonia, you will abide by what the people of Catalonia say through the ballot box, yes or no? It's also very simple. Will they abide by it, yes or no? [[Widow's remorse.]] And it's very easy to know what we're thinking...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.178.0	Please – please. Mr. Fernández, this isn't a dialog – it's not a dialog.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.179.0	Mr. Fernández, no, he's not nervous. It's not nervous, Mr. Fernández! Home, he's not nervous...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.180.0	It's not a dialect, please!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.181.0	... it's not nervous – it's not nervous. Listen, listen... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.182.0	It's not true, before I've left...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.183.0	You, who likes to ask questions, must allow me to ask questions. And before you asked, "What does the law of reference say that they have already approved? It is certainly not approved – simply on such information. I understand you know how to read. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I get it. Allow me to assume that you know how to read and that you understand what you're reading. So, well, if you know how to read and understand what you're reading, which I don't have to doubt, you could read the reference law proposal, which explains exactly, and for you, through a legal article, what happens if you win the yes, what happens if you win the no, what happens if the Catalans decide independence, what happens if the Catalans say no. And that's clear, clear south and legal. Therefore, we never again ask ourselves whether or not we are following the results. It is clear that we are not only doing everything we can to ensure that they can vote – against you – but that, moreover, we do not, as it could not otherwise be, what the Catalans and Catalans say. Listen to me, this reform is constitutional – we have read it –, statutorily – we have read it too –, it is perfectly democratic, it has been done as provided for by the Regulation of the chamber, and not only that, but it is perfectly normal, usual. In fact, most legislative chambers have prerogatives of this style, including also the Congress of Deputies. And to whom today they speak of courage, that they speak of pores, that they speak of firmness, I ask them, since they judge the reform of the Rules in function of which they seem to be able to serve and that they say to go to the Constitutional, I ask them: they will also carry...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.184.0	Mr. Torrent, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.185.0	Thank you, President, but if they don't let me finish it's logical that I'm running out of time. I ask you, since you're asking questions today... [[Greetings.]] Hope's– hope's. I'm sure you'll have a lot of applause when I'm done, but try it. I ask you: will you also bring to the Constitutional..., will you be brave and will you bring to the Constitutional the Rules of Congress of the Deputies, which provide for this unique reading and which, among other things, have you made use of to amend the Constitution?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.186.0	Mr. Torrent, you've run out of time!
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.187.0	Will they do it? Meanwhile, we'll do whatever it takes to put the ballot boxes... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments. Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.188.0	Once the debate is over, we call for a vote. Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.189.0	By allusions, Madam President...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.190.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.191.0	...of Mr. Torrent. Mr. Torrent, I... [[Pause.]] Mr. Torrent, I'm going to quote you to make you feel honored as I do by your appointment, which, if not, I would not have slept quietly today, tonight, if I hadn't quoted myself. As for the questions I was asking, let's see, I asked him first and he had fifteen_minutes to answer me and he didn't answer me. Will we abide by the result of what the Catalans are voting for? Of course, the result of autonomous elections, such as those that give you more representatives in Parliament than you vote among the Catalans, we do. But I ask you again, and I ask you to be brave, do not be afraid: will you use the reform of the Rules of Procedure to pass the law of legal transition and referendum by one reading, yes or no? [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.192.0	Mr. Coscubala, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.193.0	For allusions, Madam President, by Mr Torrent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.194.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.195.0	Thank you. Mr. Torrent, we, of fairness, res. We have always been in favour of the reference, even when you abandoned this claim for a year. We were against the attitudes of the PP in Madrid, with the unique reading, and we were against the unique reading when you planted it. The only way you see each other equidistant is that you see each other from the same place as the PP, that is, from those who use the single reading to climb the rights of minorities. It's the equidistance of what's in the same place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.196.0	Mr. Fernández, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.197.0	Sounds like allusions. I guess... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.198.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.199.0	Telegraphically. We go to the Constitutional Court for the same system that you have allowed to keep group in the Senate, and they did not complain so much. And, two, they don't, and I repeat, the election results. You defined those elections as plebiscite, lost them and still maintained the same independence road map. They don't listen to the results, and they're never going to listen to them because they're not democrats. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.200.0	Mrs. Gabriel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.201.0	To ask for a separate vote from a point.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.202.0	There are a lot of votes, Mrs Gabriel. I think what you're asking must already be considered, because we will vote a lot, right? Are you new?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.203.0	I'm having a hard time, huh? And my group has asked that we get the guide before, just because we didn't know which separate votes would have asked for the rest. And, concretely, of those raised by Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, the 31..., I don't know if it's called sexis, therefore, we would ask if it could be a separate vote. [[The joker laughs.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.204.0	What's that? From Catalunya, yes, it is...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.205.0	There are three groups: 31b, 31d and 31d. [[You laugh and you see. Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.206.0	Mrs Gabriel, we had together..., we voted on the 31b, These guys split up? Are the five and the sex separated? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] All right, then. Before I begin, Mr. Torrent, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.207.0	Yes, thank you, President. For a point of order, first, and then for some of the references I have just made. [[Pause.]] With regard to the point of order, I say that we did not say this here to the Faristol, but in any case, I understand that the groups have the text negotiated with the CUP Group, in relation to item 13, huh? , that there has been a punctual change of time at the technical level, for a question of writing correction, but that in any case does not distort in absolute or change the feeling of this transaction. It's what... as you know, it's related to the case of Members who may be imputed. So they have the text, I understand, all the groups, right? [[Pause.]] And anyway, in relation to the... well, as we would say...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.208.0	Mr. Torrent, we understand that yes, that all groups have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.209.0	We think so, all right. In any case, to the allusions of the Lord Mirror, I like that the Ciutadans Group likes the binary questions, that of ‘yes or' no. And, like they like binary questions, don't worry that October 1st will be able to answer one: or yes, or no. [[Widow's remorse. Some applause.]] And for what he does to Mr Fernández, to Mr Alejandro Fernández, I look at what we are doing, what we are sure is that we want and will never give up to obey and serve is the social majority of Catalans and Catalans, the social majority of this people, that it is the people who want to be able to decide their future at the polls.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.210.0	Okay. [[Greetings.]] The reminders that we will vote for the reserved items and the items subsequent to the opinion of the Council of State Guarantees jointly for each parliamentary group. Also the reminder that, in accordance with the first final provision and Rule 127 of the Rules, the reform of the Rules requires the absolute majority to vote in favour in a final vote on the conjunction of the text, which we will do once and for all the votes. Therefore, we will now vote on the reserved and subsequent documents of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. Let's vote for the Emena. First of all, let's vote for the Emena number two. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 47 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 4 quater puzzle. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 6b. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 7b. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on items 31 and 35. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 47 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 31-bis item. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the 38th and 41st exams. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 25 votes to 72, with 38 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 53 puzzle. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 36 votes to 87, with 11 abstentions. We will continue to vote on the reserved and subsequent items of the Socialist Parliamentary Group. First of all, we'll vote for Emena number one. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 1 bis. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 63 votes to 72, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 29. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the number 36. The vote begins. There's a tie: 63 votes in favour, 63 against and 9 abstentions. You know that in this case we have to repeat the vote again, huh? Therefore, we repeat the vote. We'll vote for Emena number 36. The vote begins. The item was accepted by 63 votes to 62, with 10 abstentions. We will then vote on the reserved and subsequent items of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot. Vote now for exams 3, 4 and 30. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 4b issue. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 38 votes in favour, 97 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for cluster number five. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 5 bis. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for cluster number six. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the 6 bis. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We shall now vote on the 14 bis, 14 ter, 14 quater and 14 quinquies. The vote begins. The items were rejected by 63 votes to 72, with no abstentions. We'll continue to vote for the item number 7. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We'll continue to vote on the 7 bis. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 63 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. We're voting now for the 14-sex emena. The vote begins. The draft resolution was rejected by 48 votes to 61, with 26 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 14-sept puzzle. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 98 votes to 12, with 25 abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 30-a. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the 31b and 31d items. The vote begins. The papers were rejected by 62 votes in favour, 72 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 31-six. The vote begins. The item was adopted by 73 votes to 62, with no abstentions. Then we'll vote for the 31 quater puzzle. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 47 votes to 72, with 16 abstentions. We will then vote on the 38 bis, 40 bis and 44 ter. The vote begins. The votes were rejected by 52 votes to 62, with 21 abstentions. Then we'll vote for 44 bis. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 11 votes in favour, 72 against and 52 abstentions. Let us now vote on the reserved and subsequent items of the People's Party of Catalonia. We're voting now for the 2 bis. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 52 votes to 72, with 11 abstentions. Now, then, we will vote for the reserved items of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed. We're voting now for the number 12. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. With regard to the 13th question, I say that a text has been submitted that has been negotiated between the parliamentary groups of Juntes per el Si and of the Popular Unity Candidate - Crying Constituent that it has already been distributed to parliamentary groups. So, let's put this transactional issue to the vote now. The vote's on. The item was approved by 124 votes to 10, with no abstentions. We will continue to vote for the item number 14. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes to 98, with 27 abstentions. We will continue to vote now on the item number 34. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote now on the 40th item. The vote begins. The slogan was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 125 against and no abstentions. We will continue to vote on the 44th question. The vote begins. The item was rejected by 10 votes in favour, 114 against and 11 abstentions. We will then vote on the reserved and subsequent items of the Junts Parliamentary Group for the Yes. We're voting now for the 4 bis. The vote begins. The draft resolution was adopted by 71 votes to 35, with 27 abstentions. We now vote on Article 138(1); Article 56(1); Article 78a; Article 93(1); and Article 125a. The vote's on. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] We're holding the vote. [[Roger Torrent and Ramio ask to speak.]] Yes, Mr. Torrent?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.211.0	Yes, President. In our voting guide, before this vote was announced, there would be the vote on Rule 135, apart from paragraph 2, leading to the approval of the item 4a.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.212.0	And the 4 bis has approved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.213.0	Did he approve? [[Pause.]] Okay.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.214.0	And since it's approved, we haven't voted for it. Let's go vote on the next one, huh? [[Widow's remorse.]] So, are we repeating now everything we've said or are we going to vote directly? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Do they vote directly? [[Pause.]] Do you have any consent? [[Pause.]] Or do we repeat everything again? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] So, let's vote. The vote begins. The items were approved by 83 votes to 52, with no abstentions. We shall now vote on Rule 66, paragraphs 1 and 3. The vote begins. The papers were approved by 108 votes to 27, with no abstentions. We now vote on Rule 207, section 1, letter g. The vote begins. The article was approved by 108 votes to 27, with no abstentions. We are now voting on a technical aspect of a transitional arrangement, dealing with parliamentary initiatives that already know the spokespersons of parliamentary groups, as it was exposed to the later Board of Speakers. The vote begins. The technical debate was approved by 124 votes to 11, with 11 abstentions. We shall then vote on the remainder of the opinion which has not been objected to. The vote begins. The remainder of the opinion which was not objected to was adopted by 72 votes to 63, with no abstentions. And in accordance with the first final provision of Article 127 of the Rules, it appears that the reform of the Rules requires the absolute majority to vote in favour in a final vote on the conjunction of the text. So let us now proceed to this final vote on the joint text. The vote begins. The proposed reform of the Rules was adopted by 72 votes to 63, with no abstentions. [[Proposed law regulating the second activity of application to the Bombers Cos of the Government of Catalonia, to the Mossos d'Esquadra and to the local police (debate of totality)]] [[202-00048/11]] The next item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposal for a regulation law on the second implementation activity for the Catalonian General Council of Bombers and the Squadron Mosses and the local police. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, Mr Jean Castel. [[Widow's remorse. Long break.]] Mr. Castel, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.215.0	Thank you, President. Counselors, advisors, deputies, deputies... Miri, as before, today I will begin my intervention saying that we are before a bill to regulate the second activity of three large collections, such as Squad Mosos, Bombers and local police. A proposal of the law that, to make a little memory, because sometimes the memory has the short ways and it seems that we do not remember to come and it is worth to make start and reschedule after five moments..., look, in the last legislature, a Member of the Initiative - The Greens – at that time – Mr. Jaume Bosch, and who wants to go to the diary of sessions will find it, on May 28, 2015, on the 24th, where this Member has already made it point that this area of the second activity should have been regulated with a law. We're on our way. What was another of the commitments before we ended this last legislature that we wanted to live? This document. [[The orator shows a full chamber.]] That document undersigned for all the parliamentary groups that were at that time in this chamber. Some, at that time, without amalgams, were alone; but either with amalgams as we have today, or with individual fashion, here we are all and we continue to feel it all. A compromise that he said in his final aside: "In the event of a possible dissolution of the Parliament that caused the lapse, all groups are committed to grab and resume this legislature in an urgent way, because the second activity and regulate it was an emergency... And if for all those groups in that legislature it was an emergency, we understand that today all those groups that were undersigned will convert the urgency... And some who have been able to present a task to the totality, applying the common sense and institutional responsibility, power, will end up removing it. Say that, fix's, based on this compromise, Citizens what do you do? Start working at the beginning of this legislature together with the other parliamentary groups. Where we have seen after seven, eight, nine meetings – and let's put the word behind the stars – where the parliamentary group that gives the Government the only one he has done, and so he has shown, has been dilated, dilated, that's what they say in catalá: who is going on, years of work. In this case we won't be talking about years, you'll try to put up with it months. But, well, say that, City in what are you doing? Take that commitment and present this bill of law. In another way, I also want to make it clear to you, the Parliamentary Group in Ciutadans, that if we are alive, that this law is in place, that we are sure that we will be able to identify this law that we are presenting, they understand that we need to update it and adapt it at this moment. That's a law that includes..., because we've heard a lot of speeches, in commissions, where we didn't hear about firefighters and city police, but this law includes firefighters, autonomous police, squad movements and local police. An opportunity to end discrimination – discrimination. They think that there are fundamental rights that do not need to be fulfilled: the right to equality, gathered to our own Constitution; but, fix's, the discriminations and violations that it provoked in these collections. What do we have to do, the legislature? Legislating, improving, adapting and implementing a rule converted into law, because the second activity has the dignity it deserves. What can't be found before flagrant violations, such as the UN's conviction, European directives, or the syndic's own report, which already warned them that they were failing... all these violations. But, just's, ultimately the background work is to safeguard rights, as I said, one of them, that of equality, but all the other rights. As I have said on other occasions, beyond a squadron, a bomber, a local police officer, there is a person, a city, that not to develop a certain profession must be violated, neither reduced nor abused their rights. That is to say, we guarantee the same rights as any other worker to three collections that, if they allow me to put it in storage and I want to subrate it, they have an added degree of perilosity. Three collections that in many cases safeguard our tranquillity, our security in the local environment, in the autonomic sphere, and also when we are ahead, like the firefighters, of fires. They safeguard our security, what less – what less – that this institution returns, as it cannot be in any other way, with a format of law a regulation that guarantees these rights. Fixed's, and I want to remind them of the UN's conviction, the reminder that it is obligatory, on the basis of Law 25/2014 of 27 November, to compliment treaties and other international agreements. Of course you do sometimes when it comes to the standards, the laws, what it is for everyone, you avoid it; you go through that straight where there is the wall at the end; in many cases, you forget the warnings that we give you many, and you continue to walk not only to keep conflicts, such as the conflict of the second opportunity, but to generate us from ourselves. That said, look, if it's sad, I also want to remind them, from that, that with any law that comes into conflict will prevail – will prevail – at all times that of conviction. I fixed that we find another sad one when we find that the majority of those affected by the second activity must go to safeguard their rights in court. A person who develops any of these three activities, when he finds himself before this problem, does not have the coverage that the other citizens have but has to go to the courts to safeguard and demand that his rights are complete. Fixed, it is a fact that is notoriety: 98_per_cent arise with favorable feelings between permanent incapacity. What is the result of justice? To say that 98_percent of the complaints give reason to the affected, when before us there is an institution that, as today, has the opportunity to fix, and convert, and enable this law to continue its process, to give guarantee and future – guarantee and future – to three collections, as they say. You seem to lose memory sometimes when we talk about certain collections; you lose memory when you are in front of taking responsibility. As I said before, Members, here in the chamber, parliamentary groups, we are about to legislate, and some other lords, who are the government, more than having to comment out of place, as we sometimes understand or as we have seen these last days, what they should hear and want to hear are the comments of responsibility; responsibility to work, responsibility to counsel and responsibility from the first minute that a charge is set towards the same charge. Say that, fix it when we're in front of data that sometimes we'll freak out. Mirin, one hundred and thirty disabled people, today, in these collections; two hundred with the second activity. But do they know what the data is that the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group cares most about us? Do they know what the dice are? The hidden malalities; that, because we can contrast when we talk to associations, when we talk to unions, the data point to us and bring us closer to an intuition of two thousand people who hide their malalty. Do you know why? They hide their malaise because if the fan obviously enters the pau; in the pau without the foundation of a law that does not exist – or so, that does not regulate them – a rule or a regulation that does not offer them guarantees, and before entering into this dynamic, where unfortunately they have seen companions throughout this path of thorns, they leave. What are they up to? Hiding from the malalty and being able to have effect that, unfortunately – that, unfortunately – with a latent malalty they continue to develop their work in order not to fall into this as I gave them a moment ago: in an unregulated pau, in a pau that does not have read and in a pau that has not come out. Fixi'scom and in what way we have to return to that responsibility, to that responsibility that I was talking about at the beginning. One of the possibilities, one time we rule, we move, we move and we end up having a law of second activity, what will be one of these opportunities? Mirin, relocate. When we talk about squad movements, when we talk about bombers, when we talk about municipal police, we usually find that the rates are below what we all want to see; when we talk about effectiveness, always, unfortunately, we talk about deficiency; but we'd have a chance to relocate a lot of people if we were stuck with this activity. We could be talking about support offices, supposing, or speciality, administration, other departments. That's why we're already talking about the same law, which I've already told you that we, like a parliamentary group, are the only one that we do: we're going to compromise and we're going to talk about it if, for good profit, we have the fate that today this law continues to walk, as is everyone's wish. We will wait for one thing: we will wait for the CUP, in this case, not to fall into the trap of playing the game to a parliamentary group and to a government that yesterday, yesterday to correct... I know that some groups already have it, they have to keep that blur that they say they were presenting the correct yesterday late, at the last hour, of this law that they have had to remove from the calaix; a law that would advise their reading and that, unfortunately, this parliamentary group has rejected it on the part of third parties, not on the part of the same government or the same group that gives it recollection. We had to meet him for third parties. It's just that incommunicado is sometimes hard. It seems that when we want to do a job that must be a job for three collectives, as I said before, fundamentals for our society, we have to do it among all. You, who fill your mouth with participation, it is obvious that participation that you spend when it comes to applying it to yourselves. Escort me, you with night and lightness, at the last hour. Why? To seek a consensus. Why? Because they see that the whole thing they had presented us to this law was perilating them. You know how you're going, right? Party. Do you know what the party is? The worst is to, in a way, guarantee a real democracy; a real democracy not only to our society, to the collectius, that today I want to give the welcome and to thank his presence to the different collections of the second activity that today accompany us, and ask, both to the group that gives recollection to the Government as to who can come to make them sing with a song to the totality, that they look to the faces of them, because this deputy and this parliamentary group that represents this deputy, the only one that they want is to take on a compromise of the last legislature, to take responsibility for those beyond the day of today, making head of the opposition, we want to rule Catalonia. Stop flying doves, stop misleading Catalan politics. If they don't know more, if they prove to be inadmissible, they take a step to the canto, that here there is a parliamentary group, that is the head of the opposition, that can take responsibility, the same as you do every day. But let me, before a sentence... the other day, I was stunned when I was told that, before a sentence of the Supreme Court of Justice of Catalonia that annulled a forced retirement, he gave the reason to the squadron's move. Do you know why we're getting here? Because there's no regulation, because there's no law. And I hope that you... and I'll give you a good deal of this, I'll give you a good deal of responsibility: leave it on the table, let's all work it together, let's work it all the parliamentary groups in this chamber, because it's all your responsibility to legislate, but it's also your responsibility to put us all in the corner of a problem you need today... and the urgency is to give it a solution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.216.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. In order to defend the totality presented by the Parliamentary Group of Junts per el Si, Mr Lluis Guinó has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.217.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor d'Interior, congratulates on the appointment and good work. Director General, Secretary General of the Department, representatives of AILMED and other people with concern for this proposal for law, I need to justify what is the position of Junts for the Yes and why we have presented the issue to the totality in this project. There is a reason, which is basic and fundamental in politics, and it is that we disagree with the content of the project that Ciutadans has presented. We were not entirely in agreement with a project initially developed by AILMED at the time. We compromised ourselves that we would ask the Legal Affairs Committee to report to the Council and, certainly, the report of the Legal Affairs Committee was so strong in the need to regulate the second activity, that in this it seems to me that we are all absolutely in agreement: the Government agreed, the Legal Affairs Committee agreed and all the parliamentary groups agreed, in that it did agree and, in some way, we, as a parliamentary group supporting the Government, agreed that the need to approve this law, which affects from a legal perspective an important collection of people, but, as the Member of the European Parliament put it, affects very directly the dignity of people, the working dignity of a gang, and personal dignity. But it is known that the Parliamentary Group of Juntes for Yes and the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans will hardly coincide with the realization of this project. And I'll explain the reasons why our layout is a lot different from what Citizens do. And when there was to be an alternate text before there was to be an alternate text, or there should be an alternate text, and the Government had an alternate text prepared, it had to work on that alternative text not only from the strictly internal perspective, because that had consequences from a work point of view and, therefore, also from a public function, there was a Public Service and, therefore, a Governance Councillor, for one band, and there was also the Vice-President of the Government and the Economy Councillor, for the other. Therefore, adding the guidelines of three departments and therefore working in a cross-sectional way certainly creates difficulties. And the difficulties have been to agree on a document, a project that we entered into Parliament's register yesterday. And this is a project so legitimate, so legitimate – and this is a proposal beyond that, from the nomenclature – it's a project as legitimate as you have presented. And just as legitimate as that presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. The mouth is filled, you, too, with participation, with consignments of papers, to work from a parliamentary point of view. And what we want to do, and in this perhaps we are partially in agreement, is that this is a law that, as it does not only affect workers at work, but has a very clear and well-defined impact on the professional dignity of these workers, we also see ourselves in the need to work on this law. And we've got her working, and we've got her working perfectly, more than you're saying no. Because, in fact, you have to say that not when I say yes, I would just miss it. One of the novelties in politics would be that we really agree and that we stop doing it, as you said at a certain time... but at the end of the day, Mr. Castel, has finished saying: "Miri, we are very strict with people, with the people of AILMED, that we have also met as a group that supports the Government, you have not met alone, and we have had many meetings. But after your intervention, your summary of what was going on? That later he called my attention. He says, "No, as if we don't trust you to do it, what the people have to do is trust us to do it when we win the elections and we're in government." So, at the end of the day, you also brought the debate not on the issues you have to do with professional and professional dignity, but on the political debate. And it is here that man thinks that so legitimately you defend his proposals as we defend ours from the prospect of giving support to the Government. This document and this alternate text knows perfectly well that it affects squadron movements, local police and firefighters. And the document that we have presented and the proposal of the law that we have presented clearly explains what it means concretely to be in the second activity, in which it is in the second activity, in which it is in the first activity, in which it is not in the second activity, which is the category of places of work. Each of the departments of firefighters, squad movements and local police will have to define it when the working places and plants are approved annually, putting the assumptions in the joints, and likewise, in which the Generality of Catalonia is concerned, for which it does to the bombers and the move and, therefore, from this perspective, in the definition of these working places there will be the possibility of incardinating these places destined for the second activity. And besides, there will be a technical procedure, doctor, that will justify this second activity. And for what he does to another question that he also allowed to think that it was actually committed..., a question that he had to see with professional dignity is that all he has to see with what are the regulatory weapons, that, certainly, in our text we defend that in very specific questions of squad and local police movements it is obvious that, if a worker is not in certain psychic and even physical conditions, he may, in some way, justify that he is not in possession of the regulatory weapon. But whatever it is that makes the squadron move itself, in that certainly unfair situation that the squadron moves did not have until practically nor of the plate, all these questions that affect dignity will be resolved in our text, and I hope that also in its, because I also understand that you have been in some way loving to whom you have asked at this time that we have met with most associations. Therefore, the questions of personal and labour dignity are resolved with this text. The question of the regulatory weapon, it is obvious that if they do not have certain psychophysical abilities it is not possible to lay down the maintenance of the weapon in certain cases. And what we're doing is very objective process, and let's say who can start a process of these characteristics. Well, it could be some kind of office. The same address, with a medical certificate and with medical justifications, can start this procedure, and can also be done by the person concerned, at the request of the worker, and at a certain time, when the request has been made, and after the corresponding days, must be submitted to medical re-examination by the Department of Interior, in this case, on the part of the Directorate-General of Fires, and on the part of the corresponding joints, and at a later time, and a medical court, which, from our perspective, must be constituted by three persons – that these are certainly the questions which we have to deal with from a point of view directly, but also from a point of view, but also from a point of view of view, in particular, the case, that the person concerned must be composed of three persons. Therefore, we have defined very clearly how this process is done. We have formalized the process of becoming in a situation of second activity and, in addition, which consequences will have the event of this activity. The opinion will have three answers. One, which does not feel the second activity, because from a medical point of view it is not justified. There are certain elements and certain medical evidence that justify that a person is found in the second activity and that there is no way to generate discussion or, from this perspective, conflict. And there are doctors, there are people who are specialists in the matter. And, therefore, those doctors or forensics who believe that a worker is not in a condition of doing the work that he has developed with normality and custom – that this is another question, too, that he should point out –, the doctor or the court will say that the person who finds himself with certain limitations and certain faults cannot develop the work that he does if he was a bomber..., the jobs that are phonenal and basic, and in these cases, above all, for what he does to the local police, the Bombers and the Musos d'Esquadra, we are talking about intervention activities, we are talking about activities that have, in some way, the need to use physical force or physical conditions, we are talking about intervention activities, we are talking about activities that have, in some way, the need to make use of physical force or physical conditions, we are talking about the ability to achieve a certain moment. Therefore, a scener is that there is justified need for a _second activity. The second scene is there's no such thing. Obviously, from an administered point of view, who does not agree with this resolution will have the mechanisms administered by appeals in some way manifest disagreement and that there is a higher feeling than in some way decides which is the final resolution of this question. And another important issue, and it is that temporarily you can stop working while the whole shipment is being processed, you can stop working in this place, but you keep economically the economic resources that you have, somehow, the person who is in this situation. Therefore, we have tried to incorporate in this text all the guarantees, most of which were asked by the associations. There are no concerns, complaints, and claims that are not included in this text, and if there are not all of them that this collector would call, that I see that some expressed their denial to the one I gave, it is likely that it is at the time of the papers and the processing of the project that we can incorporate what is needed. Therefore, we are willing and open to pull this law forward so that it is resolved not only a matter of work, but a matter affecting the basic structure of the affected departments. That is to say, it is not just that these people or those people who have had an accident or a professional illness and who are limited to developing their function that can continue to develop under the same economic conditions – that this is also another important issue – of the place of work they occupy, but also that it is more important, because the Cos de Mossos d'Esquadra and the Cos de Bombers must have and work efficiently and effectively. And having a rule of the second activity seems to me to be an absolutely functional and strategic need, until so far and during these years all this has been regulated through decrees. We already agree with the majority that this cannot be regulated by decree, for which reason and for which reason the processing of this law is justified. And, I have already said before, the difficulties have been and are still to work across three departments; all that is administrative processing and all the regular processing that makes it possible here to present this proposal to Parliament requires the intervention of many departments. And to make a point of a matter that has been of particular concern to us, and that is that those affected are going to work and, therefore, the public service criteria must be taken into account, obviously. And you're the government of the generality, the majority, and the joints. And, therefore, they certainly need this regulation. We have tried, in addition, to do it with the maximum guarantees, like everything that does or tries to do this government. Maximum guarantees mean that there is the possibility of direct intervention by the professionals affected throughout the process, that this was a concern that was also of concern. The affected directly have the possibility to join the Administration and that the Administration does not generate mistrust, and that these two_ thousand malalities that the Deputy of Ciutadans says disappear, that are malalities that are somehow unknown and that do not appear precisely because there has not been a single activity in the case of Squad Mosses and in the case of Bombers. The Councillor's commitment, the Government's commitment and the Joint Parliamentary Group's commitment to yes is to pull this law forward. You have achieved one thing: that we agree on something so important that we have to process the law and, therefore, we have to modify the regulation that was there until now. That's important, because in many questions, at last, we don't agree on the diagnosis, and on this issue we agree on the diagnosis. And it's true that we don't exactly agree with the Ciutadan Group's approach. And that's logical, and that's parliamentarianism, and that's why there's a process that we're willing to open up, presenting how we introduced this text to Parliament late in the day, that from a political point of view it may seem opportunistic..., it's certain that it's here, to Parliament..., and that Mr. Castel said that we have to take a lot into account the concerns of people, that we have, I've already made reference earlier that he has said that what would be hot is that we govern Citizens and not the current government. Who will decide who rules this country will be the citizens of Catalonia, no more or less. And, in any case, the majority of Parliamentarians who support the Government allow this Government to have the necessary stability to continue governing until the President of the Generality – which, in fact, is its competence – decides, passed the October 1 referendum, call the elections, if obviously the referendum comes out negative, as he has explained. Beyond that, we have time to pull many laws forward. Today the President has made a very concrete explanation of what the work of government has been, even though some focus their attention only strictly on the reference. We have done, and you know it, and, in addition, they have given support to some parliamentary initiatives of the group that gives support to the Government in concrete terms, in some cases in a strong way. And, therefore, it must be understood that, in some ways, Citizens and Together for the Yes do not coincide, and that is why we demand that we use Parliament to bring forward a law that satisfies the concerns of the associations and the people affected, this is the main and the most necessary. But we have to make a law, and you are a lot of specialists... you have to make a law that fits the regulations that we think we are affecting, that are the law of the police, the law of local police and all that you have to see with the strict competences of the Government of the Government of Catalonia, that this is also an important issue, that you have to respect what the State of Catalonia says in this question. If we come to an agreement on these issues, it's obvious that we'll find the way to make a law, I insist...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.218.0	Mr. Guinó, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.219.0	... that I am satisfied... – now I am finished, President; thank you – that I am satisfied with the interest of the people affected and that it is a law, moreover, that is compatible with the basic European and more modern regulations in this perspective of the regulation of the second activity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.220.0	Then you have the word, for a turn against, Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.221.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Guinó, I'm taking the word from him in the sense of..., look, I'm taking the emena back to totality. As I said, we'd first and foremost threaten this law, which is not ours, which dates back to 2015. They've had time to sort things out: two years– two years. Talking about what we might have done doesn't solve the problem, which is real and we have it today. I would like to put it to you: let us work together, let us express it to the citizens of the Parliamentary Group, and that all parliamentary groups in this chamber present papers; that it is from all parliamentary groups, not for the group but for the collective and the different collections that encompass the second activity, for all those affected by this situation, for all those who felt discriminated against, as I said before, with their violated rights, but let us work together. You think that the message to the totality that you present to us is not a..., and the law that you have tried, as I said yesterday, to enter in a hurry and currents for the Registry, I have to tell you one thing: allow it to pass the procedures that must pass. What you are doing with the message is not a theme to the text that you presented yesterday; you are keeping a theme to the totality. I take your words, Mr. Guinó, that I make my own and I take this glove; I remove the thread to totality, let's work all the parliamentary groups together to give a solution to whom I gave a moment ago, to whom are the truths affected, the truths that suffer, from different collections, as I said before, three phonenal collections for our Catalan autonomy, such as Bombers, Squad Mosos and local police. I would never want to see more... I fixed's, I punched a province, which is Girona, and I saw what happened to that city police in Figueres. What can't be is that an institution, before an invalid, before a problem of salvation, before a problem that we have to give it an answer from sanitation, yes, but from the Administration, when there is no more regulation – which is what we ask me to start walking today – is made out like it's going to be done. And like him, so many people. I got lucky today..., I went out here because there were different members of this collection at the demonstration, and there was a person who I didn't know until today, and he said, "You think I was Corporal of Mossos d'Esquadra, and today, as I didn't get out with this thing that they call "the second activity," because it's not regular, because there's no rule... Do you know what this gentleman does, with all his dignity? I'm not depreciating a job, from which I develop a pocket, so that's what it is, but this gentleman said to me: "I do as a corporal and my disability only allows me to remove the ABP's papers in which, by causation, I worked. If this is not to restore dignity to people, and people who are going to do an academic process, who are going to get a title, who are going to develop a task as laudable as the case of this gentleman, of squadron movement, but extended to bombers and municipal police..., how can we not, from the institution, return them to what is a waste they have, which is a rule, a law that you get them? And, as I said before, I make a call to all the parliamentary groups of this chamber: let's do it among all; let's present the papers to the first who came from 2015 and started to work, which is what Ciutadans is committed to and presents; let's all work from a corner of the bench to another corner, including the group that gives recollection to the government. Mr. Guinó, the opportunity is at your decision and that of your group, and power at the councillor's and your councillor's. Take over the problem, settle the problem. They'll keep us working, making papers, presenting papers, just like all parliamentary groups. This doesn't have to be the law of a group, it doesn't have to be the law of a party, it has to be the law of those affected by this problem, that today there are many and lucky people who have to mobilize in their day different representations of the second activity to pose a view, to put face and to put words to where there were glasses of door. They've got the opportunity, grab it, and we'll get it together. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.222.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. Then, to fix its position, has the word Mr Carles Castillo, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.223.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon to everyone. To greet, first of all, the unions that are accompanying us today; especially, if I may, AILMED, Ailbod and Ailpold, who are accompanying us here today in this debate. Good afternoon. As I say, we are in the debate on the totality of the proposed law regulating the second activity of firemen, movements and local police; a situation in which workers and workers of certain emergencies pass, the functions of which are eminently operational, and on particularly risky and penosis occasions, when they lose some of the psychophysical skills that they need to develop their work; a situation regulated in a dispersed and unequal way, with different regulations, depending on the body they are dealing with. There is, therefore, a degree of harmonisation and a guarantee of equality between all those affected. That is why we will gather, already the warnings, that the proposal follows its parliamentary procedure, because we see it necessary, completely necessary and appropriate. But I also have to say and I have to warn you that I think we need to review the literal content. Also said the company Castel, from Ciutadans. I don't think he's taken into account any of the municipal issues, mostly from the municipal world. The same Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia to its permanent commission negatively values the content of the proposal and makes a series of warnings that have not been taken into account in its last draft. A necessary law, therefore, but not so. And let's also say it with all the love and all the respect, Mr. Castel. He presented the proposal only for the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group, when we had agreed and all the parliamentary groups remained of the opposition to try to make a joint presentation and which took into account everything that concerns the assemblies and the local police – yes, Mr Castel – which is what has been the busiest in the proposal. The day we approved the whole opposition together with a proposal for a generic resolution to the Commission of the Interior – which I certainly wrote myself personally – that gave the guarantee while processing the law because there is no defence situation between the bomber, the mover or the local police, you were taking the photo, presenting this proposal for the law that we are debating today. And it is also true, I will not deny it, that the compromise of this mandate was to present already a proposal of law on the basis of which it passed from the entities of the disabled, but touched upon in the sense that it pointed out before. That's what I got compromised and that's what's going on retarding, I recognize it, too. Just as it is true that all parliamentary groups – all parliamentary groups – including Democratic Convergence and the Republican Left, represented by Mr. Jordi Turull and Mrs. Marta Rovira, we signed a compromise at the end of last parliamentary term where we said that we would bring exactly this same text to your parliamentary process. We're almost done with the new legislature, and we're still on the same page. It's to make us look at all the folds. See what we transmit from politics and the trust we give when we commit ourselves to something. That's right, and I have to recognize that, too. But I also think that you have done everything, to put a medal, to our good will, because you have clearly risked our saying now that not to the purpose of the law. And they've been able to get it, because they've somehow broken the consensus, Mr. Castel. And we, out of responsibility and consistency, because we believe that this law is necessary, that the collectibles deserve it, we will, unfortunately everything. Everyone's talking about safety bodies, but more often than not without taking into account what the safety bodies think. We, I say, are making an effort in this vote, an effort for the corps of firemen, squad movements and local police, who endure our security many times only thanks to their self-sustaining personal work and dedication. We make the effort so that the law follows its parliamentary process, and on the understanding that during this process we will change it, whatever it takes. And, besides, I think the thrusters are also aware of it, because we also told them. We need to get the sense of law to our people and cities; we need to make the municipal world a participant and protagonist of this law. We need to make sure that the public emergency worker is unprotected for his administration if he takes any kind of evil. But we have to do this without saying that it means carrying even more on the savings of the joints, or carrying only on the joints. Therefore, a common regulation of the second activity, but it must be done with rigour, efficiency and will of consent. Also the participation of trade union representatives of the different bodies. This has special relevance, since, as I said before, laws have always been made for them without them, and implementation has always been problematic, not to say impossible. We'll just get out of here and get it. And for the government, I have some questions, too, I have to tell you what I think. You, as I said, also signed that compromise with disability associations. And not only have they repeatedly incompleted it by putting all the possible sticks to the wheels – in fact, they now present a message to the totality of that text that they have committed themselves to gathering – but I believe that, moreover, they have never intended to complete it, Mr. Guinó. You committed yourself to submitting a bill or a bill as an alternative to the present, and submitted it yesterday. At good times, green sleeves, Mr. Guinó. I don't think it's the time to introduce her, the day before, to paralyze her, or to favor the whole thing. I don't think they're shapes. Let's think, then, that there have still been evasive maneuvers and again to gain time. So, so, neither. But let me not end in denial. Let us hope that all folds, as Mr. Castel also pointed out, lay down our batteries and that we get a law that gives solution to all the problems with which the collections of you have found yourselves, that there are many workers of our security, and that our assemblies really feel fully represented. Today, in the 21st century, a disability cannot lead to the loss of work. Any person who is likely to be disabled, anyone who may take ill and become a disability collector, any of whom are present here. It must be the duty of its proper administration to take on its integration, but we must always do so with the few entangled in reality. That's why we're working, I'm counting on us. Bombers, movers and local cops, we're with you. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.224.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Next, the words of Mr. Marc Vidal, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.225.0	Thank you, President. In the first place, counselor, let'macompany him in the feeling for his appointment, which I had not done yet, well, or congratulate him, as you prefer. Greetings also to the people of the collectivities who are following us. I will limit myself to talking about the proposition of law that is presented today, because of what Mr Guinó has explained to us in detail, which we do not know, today does not touch. I suppose he's explained it so much because it's hard for us to have time in this legislature to have a debate like lime, at least it's what we suspect the misconceptions. I have clearly considered an opportunistic attitude, totally. Even though it is obvious that it would be the first small victory of the presentation of today's proposal, that the government is finally mulli, which I had not done before. We'll talk about your proposal, then. You are presenting us, as has been said here, a bill to regulate the second activity of the three operative bodies, which is strictly the same text that the parliamentary groups of the present legislature have submitted to Parliament just before this is dissolved by the call for nine elections. On that occasion he wanted to show a symbolic support of all the groups of Parliament to the better of the regulation, through a law, of the situation of this second activity for all those persons of the operating bodies who for a matter overcome some type of functional decrease that prevents them from doing the usual activity of these bodies. I support it symbolically because, together with the compromise of the presentation, it was obvious to everyone, also to the association promoting the text, that the legislature was dying and that it could not finish its journey due to lack of time. In fact, this association demanded that it be read only, given that all the groups in Parliament supported it. And the groups of students then disadvised it because the issue is necessary, but, as you all know, it's complex. And not everyone can assume as much as a text presented for an association when there are competition issues, representation issues, presupposition issues. There are already regulations of the second activity that obviously do not give sufficient response to the needs of the affected people, but that precisely because they do not give sufficient response, it is necessary to ensure that it is done well, that it is only to do so without broad consensus, leaving this issue equally poorly regulated, but this time in the form of law. Let me make a ‘Kat Kit: fix yourself in the two basic conditions of the single reading – presented for all groups and with little complexity–, and how curious it was to complete them the groups of students and how we are of imprudent the current groups as we go through these unique readings, in legislation that probably have much more impact than what we are discussing today. The Kat Kit is closed. So, well, we'll find each other here again today. We will begin to discuss the same proposal at a time of the Agonic legislature, and if we have given one more step, which is the debate we are taking today, it would be difficult to be optimistic, even though it is being carried out, in relation to the finalization and approval of the project for a matter of time. And in that, my group would like to be very clear. If it is processed we would not want to go fast, especially because we understand that there are important elements or that they are not contemplated or that they are contemplated mass and on which to reach agreements of consensus between different administrations and collectivities. And that takes time. I suppose that Parliament's political groups, as has been done here, are called upon to claim consistency with the compromise that was signed before the end of the last parliamentary term, to resubmit the proposal in the present parliamentary term. And I say that as a third person because you can claim to the groups that were there, some of us have not only changed the name, but we have presented ourselves to the elections with different commitments and programs. That is why, to decide our vote, that already the advance that will be opposed to the challenge to the totality, we have valued not this hypothetical compromise, but the opportunity to process now the proposal of the law and also its contents. Look, the whole contents, as you said around here, we don't like them. And I'll try to explain the reasons, while naturally the solution in the debate of a bill is to submit papers and find consensus after feeling everyone, as Mr. Castel himself proposed. For example, we do not share that in justification they are called as an essential element of the UN Convention's failure to fulfil the rights of persons with disabilities, and they are involved in the proposal, more than people with functional diversity, other collections, such as the fifty-seven-year-olds or pregnant persons, for example. By this I do not mean that these collections are not to be joined to the second activity, that I think it is positive, but obviously not under the umbrella of the UN's belief, that it is to be used as a flag, but under the umbrella of certain rights that are regulated by other laws and are to be subject to collective bargaining, when they affect the realization of their working conditions, which are in these two cases exclusively of which we are speaking. Therefore, they are essentially different situations that we cannot sweep in the same bag. That's exactly where we are in another aspect that we don't share. The text regulates objectives of the second activity, characteristics, access... but, moreover, there are aspects of working conditions that are not close to a legal text, but rather to collective bargaining; among other things, because if they are fixed by law what happens is that they will limit the ability of this collective bargaining, which could allow them to improve in a future adapted to circumstances. And there's a third aspect that doesn't seem right to us either, which is how the municipal world paper works. Look, if we haven't been able to get through all these years of making Catalonia's law of integral police for the complexity of the municipal world, we can't now make it clear that there are aspects to be regulated in this future law of integral police – if one day we have it – in order to implement some of the articles that you present in your proposal. Among other things, the municipal autonomy has allowed regulations of the second activity reasonable in some municipalities; in others, not so much, and in others there is no. But they continue to have competitions over their police and, therefore, what we wrote about in this proposal can be done without having found the consent of the municipal world. And if we value the opportunity to present it, we also believe precisely what I said before, that is not the best time. First, because, despite the fact that they are much better, as explained in the explanatory statement, there are regulatory decrees both in the Cos de Mossos and in Bombers as in some local police; and we know that working conditions have been negotiated with workers' representatives. Secondly, because if we want to do the job well, we will find ourselves again with a law that will not finish its work in this, let me say, hypothetically short term legislature. And in the third place because there are elements that have changed or are about to change, for example, the prediction of a decree that will regulate early retirement to sixty years of all the local police of Spain. And that means that you'll have to make a completely different staffing forecast. Now, as I said, despite all the misfortunes, there is an opportunity in place that has begun to see today with this presentation at the extremes of the government of its bill, which is precisely the pressure that this debate is exerting on the government, because then there is a problem that is a need that is obviously to be resolved well, that has begun to regulate – I remember, there was negotiation at the time of Councillor Saura – but then it was abandoned, because it is difficult and because it is complex. And if the government takes it, it should want to say – I should want to say – that they should try to seek all the consensus needed to present a project with the involvement of the government, but not just the government, the current or what is to come from, if any more will come from it, because what it is about is finding shared points of agreement. Therefore, we do not like all the text presented; we do not like Ciutadan's opportunism to present it today in solitary, to demand that it is presented today at this moment, in this last Ple – we do not like, this – knowing that it has very few opportunities to succeed, but we, as I said, would not prevent its processing precisely to give valid to the opportunity that I have just mentioned. And, therefore, as I said, we will vote against the threat to totality. It would seem correct to us that a process of ponència is opened. It would seem essential that in this process the municipal world, the trade union representatives and the government officials, with whom it did not count for this text, or it did not count enough, at the time of final drafting of this text, which is a few years old. Obviously, it would seem necessary to us that there is a common regulatory basic framework that gives security in its work to the people of the operating bodies who have suffered some type of functional decline due to a situation that has survived. And it would seem necessary to us that, in order to do so, account should be taken of the contributions of all the collections that appear in this hypothetical question in order to be able to find all the essential consensus to provide a new text – neither one nor the other, nor a new text – of compromises, with real capacity to be able to carry out, and not only to blow columns, and not just to cheat on the lonely, so that we can resolve the obvious shortcomings that we have today and that the collection sure that it needs to be resolved. Therefore, in this you can also count on our activity and our work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.226.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Next, the words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.227.0	President, councillor, deputies... welcome the collectives who are with us today. And, first, congratulate the new advisor on the job. Lots of success and luck, as long as you comply with the law. Having said that, today we are faced with a history of failure. This is the story of a failure. First, by the vote which will then be reflected here and then by how the whole debate on the second activity in this Parliament has been managed. To start, of course, the People's Group remains in the defense of regulating the second activity, it continues to support the collectives and unions that defend the regulation of the second activity, as many municipal groups of the People's Party throughout Catalonia do. Because the second activity is to dignify a firefighter or a police officer who, because of age or a physical or psychological problem that occurred in his work, cannot physically develop the work of a police officer or a firefighter. But that does not mean that this person ceases to be a police officer or a firefighter, because normally the jobs that require physical and personal effort, such as that of a police officer and a firefighter, are certainly among the most vocational ones that exist today. That's why we're talking about a cop who has a problem, but he's still a cop, and we have to take advantage of all that accumulated experience, and it can be done, and for that there is the second activity. When a person moves to that second activity, he does not cease to be a police officer, a spirit, a thought, or a heart. No fireman. Therefore, the only thing that is approved is a proposal from the People's Group, which was to draw up the catalogue of second-rate jobs in this Parliament. From here, there's nothing else. Why did we say about the catalogue? Because, even if you are in second activity, you can go on developing jobs related to the world of safety and prevention, such as controlling access to public buildings, receiving complaints, caring for the citizen, strengthening 112, among others many jobs that these people can do. And, therefore, to dignify the second activity also means to dignify those people. On the text that he proposes – we will vote against the amendment as a whole – the text has not just convinced us. Surely there is a problem of skills that invades the local world, and surely, too, it would have to be extended to rural actors. But let us talk – and I will be brief – about the games of disloyalty that have taken place in the handling of this debate. First, the government's disloyalty. What has the Government done with the second activity in the last seven years? Nothing – nothing. A problem that is social, labor and police; social because they are workers who have a problem that affects their world of work and that this world of work affects the police; a triple problem in which the Government of the Generalitat these seven years has been concerned about the monotheme and the second activity has had it parked, hidden in a drawer or probably forgotten. Therefore, disloyalty of a government towards the public workers of Bomberos and Mossos d'Esquadra. The second, Ciutadans. We have to make a memory, a history of this mandate. The platforms asked for consensus, and there was consensus to put forward a motion for a resolution and then to put forward a bill with as much consensus as possible. Five groups signed a motion for a resolution, and it is true that the singing voice was carried by Mr Carles Castillo – and it is true – but we agreed it among all the groups except Junts for Yes. And on the same day that the motion for a resolution was adopted, oh surprise? Citizens break the consensus, and the bill that we had to submit by consensus among all groups or as many groups as possible presents Citizens ten_minutes before the commission with a representative of the platform. Broken consensus, disloyalty. You – you –, before the political responsibility to work for that collective, preferred the photo. And I already told them, and I warned them, in an AILMED appearance, that surely that photo would have consequences, as we will actually see in the vote later. And if we're looking for consensus, what we can't do is, by looking for a photo, harm a collective. And that, Mr. Castel, if they do it in the opposition – they do it in the opposition – and they do it in other municipalities..., I prefer to think that it will not be so if one day they rule in some administration. And the third disloyalty comes, supposedly, from the vote that will be issued by the CUP. Because, of course, the CUP also signed the motion for a resolution; we are talking about social policy, we need to help the weak, we need to be very supportive. But, of course, on 1 October it throws a lot; the « stark independenceist debate..., they throw a lot – by the way, Mr Guinó, your bill..., I cannot comment because I do not know it; I hope it will bring it to us before 1 October and we can discuss it – and the UPC today changes its vote, today. Therefore, threefold disloyalty: of the Government with the collective, of Ciutadans by breaking the consensus and of the UPC in favour of independence and of the Government and, therefore, against the collective. And so it said it was the story of a failure, because, even though the Government's bill is now presented, that bill will not be made available in time for adoption. And that's the way it is. And if we vote in favour of the proposal that you are putting forward against the amendment to the whole it will be because of our commitment to the collective, for the commitment that the People's Party has to the second activity and also to a person who has made me too..., for his trajectory, therefore, that my respect has been won, that it is Mr Vicenç Hernández, who has been the person who, in the face of the rupture of the supposed consensuss, has endured that we vote in favour. And I'm finishing up. If the bill were to go forward today, I would propose that the rapporteur should be someone from the government; first, because we do not like how Ciutadans has acted and, second, that the government should start to work a little bit on this subject, a little bit. And I finish with a reflection, and it is simply that, on the issue of the regulation of the second activity of mossos d'ésquadra, firefighters and local police, this Parliament deserves only a suspense. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.228.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. The words "Mrs. Mireia Vehí", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed, continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.229.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Leave it to me. I still hadn't had any..., I hadn't given the welcome to the new interior advisor, Mr. Forn, or the new Director General of the Police, Mr. Soler. And since you took possession of the car we have seen, the same day, how you held two militants of the independent left to go to court and how the Police of the Generalitat - Mossos d'Esquadra rode the MNAC while the King of Spain celebrated a reception to remember the Olympic Games of Barcelona 92. Renewed: repression of dissent and unnecessary police spectacles, and deployment of disproportionate devices to defend the elites before twenty people with harmless cartels. The only weapon we had yesterday was cartels, and the coherence, perhaps, that we already understand that it makes us feel ashamed and that it makes us look at who in full process of republican rupture runs against the monarch. Once said that, let's go on to debate the Law proposition of the second activity; law proposition that many months ago we should have discussed. In fact, the last laws on firefighters, on movements and on local police are from before 1995, and it is clear that political reality has changed a lot since then and that it is necessary to generate legislative marks, not only of second activity, but of regulation of the safety nets. They shut down a law of police and a law of new bombers, and therefore the debate of the second activity up late and partially. And above Ciutadans's hand, which presents a proposal for law with the full text that the entities and unions that have worked on the subject have developed. And from here on, a recognizance of his pocket. Without her, surely, today we wouldn't have, we wouldn't be having this debate. I was saying this last week of this very week: thanks to the city and the citizens who, despite the impediments because this pile full of carpets is a space for the city, do not fail. And it has to be said that the kings and queens of democracy, who today have repeatedly questioned the CUP because we prevent a debate, and they have told us disloyal things at all, have opposed themselves to an issue of Parliament's Rules of Procedure because popular legislative initiatives do not have to have a debate to the totality that may fall on them– People's Party, Citizens, Catalonia Yes, it is possible and together for the Yes, everyone included. Therefore, I wanted to put it above the table, because we say that in the debate of this law is asked enough in terms of democracy. And this same week, they have already explained, the party that gives support to the Government, Together for the Yes, which is the very one that has presented the message to the totality at this law proposal, enters another law proposal on the subject; late, but late, another time. And it is that the situation of people who should be objected to the second activity, the security, movement, firemen and local police, is in many cases dramatic and plays, played, for a long time, in fact, regulate it in a guaranteed way. And the text that presents us today City is a text that has the virtue of putting the debate of the second activity to the House of Parliament. We celebrate that you have served as a pressure because Together for the Yes, the party that gives support to the Government, has entered a proposition of law in this sense. And already the advances that we do not share some of the structural views of the text that Ciutadans has entered, and that we have spoken and will continue to speak with the entities, and that, therefore, we will support the challenge to the totality of Juntes per el Si. We understand that the object of shaking the government because a proposal for it is complete, and therefore we have law in hand, and we understand that we want to talk about and discuss the second activity of another brand, that we believe is different from what we do not share and that I will explain it to you now. And, Mr. Castel, this is not a game. In fact, we do what we do is politics. I don't know if you're playing opposition, as if you're going to rule from time to time, for the speech you've made, but I'm already advancing that when the CUP makes politics, makes politics, does not play. I will explain to you why we do not share the content of the text of the bill. First of all, because it is a law that has the will to fight discrimination, concretely against capacitism, that seeks to shield the rights of people with functional diversity and that makes a carambola exercise between the stigmatization of functional diversity – and the terminology of "decrease, "capacity, "disabled than the Ciutadans text and the Juntes text for Yes share is not a good example – and then the other extreme, is to say, between the stigmatization and the overprotection of people with functional diversity, that in our understanding is another form of discrimination. Talk about the second activity in cases of pregnancy and family members in charge. I'm sorry, ladies and gentlemen, but when a woman is pregnant, we don't think it's a matter of functional diversity or capacitism, she has to see the reproduction of life, just as the fact of having people in charge has to see how to organize society in such a way that people can live and reproduce, but in no case are they the themes of the second activity. And it's obvious that if a woman is pregnant she can't do some functions, like, for example, being in the mobile brigade; but it's more a question of organization of the job than not of second activity, with which it involves. So, as I say, it's a carambola that still reinforces the discourse of discrimination, which, say, refers to when a person is not as productive as the system expects; a speech that for us is totally against what the second activity should be, that we think it should be based on a logic that all people are valid in organic systems, that it is about operating and managing resources and tasks according to the needs and concrete situations and that the care of family members is fundamental and that certainly the functioning and the functions, more than any other collection of workers and workers in this country, can assume it with guarantees. And that's what we want you to be clear about. Secondly, the other reason for which we do not share the structural background of this text is that it opens the door to measures and bodies of private nature and concerted in medical assessments, measures such as allowing the second activity to be called for by means of a medical report which appears in Article 5 and which does not specify whether this method should be public or private, open the door to private health services entering the procedure and, in fact, generate a situation of inequality between officials and officials: who can pay you better report, faster and surely say what they want, and who does not, therefore, do not. Therefore, in Article 10 you specify that the medical reports will be carried out by the Internal Department's Occupational Risk Prevention Service and that the tests will be carried out by the ICS network. However, as Article 5 does not specifically specify itself in terms of procedure, we take care of ourselves in salvation, I say so. And it is that you to the law lay the medical report as parallel way of demand of the second activity, in the resolution of the General Institute of Social Security, which confirms the suspicion. We know that – we have repeated it in various debates of different aspects, and all..., the majority linked to what are medical assessment courts and to sanitation –, we will not support any text that opens the door, or that is to say, to private sanitation, or that is to be reported. And from the CUP we've been very critical with ICAM, we've been very critical with medical assessments, with criteria, you've heard us make this speech a lot of times in this House, but in no case will we endorse that you can ask for a second activity without a medical court that I believe, not just the request, but the whole process: a public medical court. And we understand that here surely, at the suggestion of the law that the group that supports the government has entered, we will also have to discuss it in this sense. And what you propose, Mr. and Mr. Ciutadans, is that this function, in terms of procedure, does it as a support and attention service that you propose to create to the law, and with the support of the working table – works comets –, "working table, which is an organization involving entities, unions and staff represented by different administrations. And here are two themes: what we have already mentioned – what we want is accredited medical and public personnel courts – and, on the other hand, that you delegate a great deal of responsibility to these two organs and make the procedure extremely complicated, and that therefore we understand that you do not fall and that you have not felt. And the idea of being able to set up a support and support team, which the entities and the unions have demanded a lot, we understand it and we understand it from a psychosocial logic, but it seems to us that you have already served specialities and that, in any case, what should be done is a structural layout. I'm done, 'cause I'm running out of time. From the CUP, I'm telling you, I know I'm defending a position that the entities and the union don't seem right, but to say, from the start: we support the second activity, which we don't support is this text, and we will try to work on the text that the group that supports the government entered, with all the guarantees that we can. Now, we support the second activity, not any law of the second activity, and not certain measures that open the door to private sanitation or collaborate in the wisdom of private mutuals in the process of lowering and requesting second activities on the labour market, because we already know what this is about. And let us celebrate that the lords of Ciutadan and the lords join in the denunciation of the invisible labor ills; indeed, now, in this very Parliament, there has been a concentration of PAICAM and now there is a meeting with Councillor Comín. We don't understand how you're not, so worried and worried that you're on the subject today. And I repeat, for someone in doubt, that the CUP does not do favors policy, that we vote for this whole thing because we consider it politically appropriate, and therefore do it by political principles and criteria. I'm just saying, if anyone had the... I mean, they wanted to imagine it was going this way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.230.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. We're done with the debate, we're calling for a vote. Mr. Castel, why ask me the word? [[Jean Castell Sucarrat intervenes without using the microphone.]] Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.231.0	Miri, Mr. Castillo, for institutional respect and as parliamentary companions, I will not make literal reference to what you answered me when for the first time I summoned them to go together to present... My intention since minute 1 was that all the groups of this chamber had introduced him, and in respect of his person, as I have said, I will make omission from the literal that you took me to. Mr. Villagrasa, I advise you, look at'sel telefon, look at'sel mail, because the tricks are going to be continued, including – including – accompanied, in one of them, by Mr. Castillo. And, Mrs Vehi, it is obvious – it is obvious – that the leap between the two parliamentary groups is abysmal. Do you know why? I will say this, it is very basic: some, following the rules of the game, following the legal order, we have laws and we are defenders, and others want to pass them over, they want to fight and they want to put up with them. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.232.0	Mr. Villagrasa, why ask me the word? [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil intervenes without using the microphone.]] Sorry, I didn't hear it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.233.0	Yes, Madam President, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.234.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.235.0	Mr Castel, when there is consensus among all groups, the same direction is followed. And I invite you to check my email, it won't be that you miss a point or a coma. [[Long break.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.236.0	We shall proceed to the vote on the motion for a resolution tabled by the Joint Parliamentary Group for the Yes. The vote begins. The total vote was adopted by 69 votes to 62, with no abstentions. This legislative initiative is therefore rejected. [[Agrarian Law Proposal (totality debate)]] [[202-00062/11]] The next item on the agenda is a total debate on the proposal for agrarian space law. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules of Procedure, the initiative, on behalf of the Junts per el Si Parliamentary Group, is presented by Mrs. Dolors Rovirola. [[Widow's remorse. Pause.]] Please ask them, as always, to leave in a hurry and in silence so that we can continue the session.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.237.0	Thank you, President. Councillors, advisors, general secretaries of the department, director general of Rural Development..., and give welcome also to representatives of the sector, here we have Union of Pages, Young Farmers and Ramaders of Catalonia, Federation of Cooperatives Catalan Agricultural, Center of Forest Property, the IRTA, the Fundació del Món Rural, the Catalan Institute of Agricultural Studies..., all of which are still very welcome. MPs, MPs, last July 12th was recorded here in Parliament the Proposition of the Law of the Agricultural Spaces of Catalonia, promoted by the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, with the support of the Department of Agriculture, Ramaderia, Fishing, Food and Forestry. From a text drafted in the last legislature, a lot of work has been done and reports have been incorporated from the same sector as I have been from before and from the local world, through the Catalan Association of Municipalities and the Federation of Municipalities of Catalonia; also from the different parliamentary groups have accepted reports, and also from the Department, naturally, of Territories and Sustainability. There has been, therefore, a consensus text, much consensus throughout the sector, which today passes the first parliamentary process and which, with the hearings and the demands to come after it, can still change and improve, if necessary. This proposal for law is not about a law of agricultural orientation, but about agricultural spaces that can protect, preserve and, if necessary, expand. Go and respond to the historical demand of the sector and the territory, and also to various mandates, motions and resolutions that have taken place in this very Parliament, but also taking into account some changes and situations that have motivated this law. There have been many changes in the rural environment and in the agricultural sector. It may be recalled that Catalonia has 3,2_million hectares of surface, of which 21,6_per_cent are conreos of irrigation and drought; 7_per_cent, of pastures, and 64_per_cent, of forest land. According to the map of Catalonia's habitats, there are about 45,000_hectares of abandoned conreus, which suppose a 1.4_per_cent of Catalonia's surface. Therefore, this regulation is very necessary so that the agricultural areas have the recognition of their values and are equipped with the regulation that corresponds to them. There has also been a gradual decline in the primary sector's GDP, a reduction in the number of farms and an increase in its medium size, with a reduction in the number of hectares. Another motivation is the growing occupation of soil, resulting from urban growth and the expansion of the forest surface, which generate, among other things, legal insecurity for some, and a loss of competitiveness for others. With this law you want to compliment the recommendations of the plenary assembly of the world alliance and push the national plan to implement the 2030 agenda, where, in its second objective, it is said: "To put aside the fame, to achieve food security and better nutrition, and to promote sustainable agriculture. This outgoing text, which, as I said earlier, has been extensively worked and agreed with the whole sector, will enable the country to have a law to plan and act taking account of the agricultural sector as a producer of food for the balance of the territory, and also for social cohesion. Let's go to the object of the law. Highlight: define well what are these agricultural areas and identify them that have a high agricultural value, with the aim of preserving them, since they are of general interest to society and that they should protect, even though they do not have agricultural activity at present; make a register of land in disuse, transparency and guarantees, with exit formulas and logger to keep the maximum agricultural area in conditions of production in order to advance in food sovereignty, ensure the management of the environment and promote the generational network. Another objective is that land planning and urban planning figures that affect agricultural areas should be incorporated into the memory and will be linked. On the other hand, infrastructure of general interest will have to complete the land area plan and the department will have to carry out an analysis of agricultural conditions. The law, therefore, has the objective of ordering the management of the agricultural areas of Catalonia and designing the mechanisms necessary to provide legal certainty to the owners of the farms. Finalities of the law. We highlight: the preservation and protection of agricultural areas as a factor of food production, conservation of culture, biodiversity and the different natural ecosystems to help ensure the health and well-being of humans, animals and plants, and to maintain biological diversity. Another purpose of the law is to establish the consideration of agricultural areas in buildings built in agricultural land, in use or not, and which form or have formed part of an agricultural holding. Another aspect highlighted by the law is the need to recognize that the multiple functions and bases of agricultural activity are donated for the ability to ensure the links between production, quality and food security, territorial balance, the preservation of the rural world and its inhabitants, the maintenance of landscape and respect for environmental conditions and the conservation of biodiversity, as well as their contribution to mitigating and mitigating climate change. The text of the law is divided into a preliminary title and six more titles. In the foreplay it is said what is the object and purpose of the law, which I have already mentioned a few, and which are, in short: the planning and management of agricultural areas, determining their legal regime, and the regulation of public intervention assumptions and modalities. As for the first title, it is determined which are the instruments of sectoral territorial planning agricultural with the criteria that must be taken into account so that the territorial agricultural plan of Catalonia and the specific agrarian plans on concrete areas with different interests or singularities can be realized. Title 2 : regulates the analysis of agricultural effects as instruments of the relationship between territorial planning, urban planning and the protection of the agricultural area that the territory identifies, already for the productive quality as from the environmental point of view. Here I want to make an element of a point of this analysis of agricultural concerns which I find very interesting and which says: "This law will apply the concept of reciprocity, which requires the nine constructions not to grow an adequate distance, according to the agricultural sector regulations, to existing constructions, agricultural and forestry, so that these operations can eventually carry out their activities in a normal way. Therefore, urban planning will have to take into account the differences in the face of ramadere, agrarian or forestry constructions, many times threatened by urban nuclei that have been rampant without taking into account any distance and many times can create climates of malaise or rural mobbing. Title 3: It makes elements of information systems for the protection and conservation of agricultural areas. Title four: it delimits the infrastructure of general interest in agricultural land and rural roads to establish the consideration of agricultural areas in the regulation of works, planning, programming and execution of these. Thus, preserve the minimum unit of conreu in the execution of the same works. A side also deserves the theme of rural paths. It will make an inventory of who is the owner and will be classified according to some criteria that describe this law. For now, rural roads are often conflict, and it's an embolism and a conflict between roads. Title five: it is dedicated to the peri-urban agricultural activity to be taken into account in the territorial planning and development of infrastructure. Title sisè eultim: defines the establishment and the functions of the register of agricultural holdings in disus, which must manage the land declared as underutilization, taking into account aspects such as the declaration, transparency and guarantees for the shares and to promote access to the professional or young people who want to join the sector. This far away had not been done before as one of the important objectives of this law. Josep Pla said in 1979: "Agrarian desori is indescribable in our country. It's been a long time, yes, but there's also been a lot of work lately to make a good law. Let's hope we can unload this agrarian space. We must think that there is no agriculture without agricultural areas, and there is no food production without agricultural areas. Now that it is so fashionable to refer to agribusiness, let us remember that this industry, based on the agricultural sector, exists because there is agriculture, and we can also say that agritourism can only exist with the presence of agriculture. The importance of these sectors – agroindustry and agrotourism – come from the primary sector that makes them possible. Therefore, to renounce to maintain our agrarian production, disappearance of pages and depend on external supplies – potatoes from Poland, tomatoes from Morocco, frozen meats you know where we come from – this means to accept very heavy risks, degrading our condition of life with quality foods inferior to what we can now have and enjoy. All in all, and bearing in mind that existing agricultural areas will hardly produce more and it is not possible to expand them, we must plan not to lose 'em, conserve and protect those that are there and recover the lost spaces, as this law does. Thank you, president, deputies, deputies. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.238.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Rovirola. As far as totality has not been discussed, we shall now proceed to the intervention of all parliamentary groups to determine their position. In the first place, has the word Mr. Francisco Domínguez, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.239.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, the truth is that I am very happy, because, in these hours and without voting, I expected a more fluid quorum. And with the whole sector here, I think it'll be a good debate. First, I will explain my exposure around two questions; the first question is whether it is necessary a law of agricultural areas, and the second question is whether urgency is necessary, and above all extraordinary urgency, as has been done. Is that necessary? Well, it seems to be. Almenys, it's been a long time since we've spoken in this Parliament, and not just in this Parliament, but in the whole sector. In the 2010 monogram, among other things, it was determined the need to protect and promote soil for agricultural uses and the need to promote and increase food capacity. In order to satisfy these needs, it is necessary to ensure sufficient agricultural quality, to protect agricultural interest areas before remaining uses – urban, industrial and logistical – including agricultural impact studies on urban and infrastructure projects, to develop the land sector territorial plan and to present a draft of agricultural law, which is now being done, even though it is not a project, which is a proposal. That's all he said by 2010. Ah! Well, it was also approved that all this is endowed with the necessary economic and human resources. It's not just doing laws, but providing resources to develop them. Then, four years later, at the 2014 monogram of the rural world, it is particularly involved in the planning of communication infrastructures and regadius, and it is also involved in long term agricultural impact studies, which return to the communication infrastructure projects. In addition to these monograms, there have been motions and repetitions on this same subject. So far, we can agree to a law of agrarian thickets. But what has happened since 2010 until today? Well, it's a question, but I answer it myself: nothing. And what did you do to last year's legislature? Well, it was a draft farm law on March 2015, but as the legislatures here are two years old, so it didn't even get to the debate on the whole and it went down. So, the answer goes on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on and on And now you see the second question: Is processing necessary by urgency, and by extraordinary urgency, by means of more internality? Well, obviously not. If so, why didn't he take the 2015 Bill and present it as a proposed law to the generation? But not the gener of enguany, the gener of 2016. What are the priorities of this government, which has trigat years and months in adapting a text? A text that already existed, huh? , only had to be modified and adapted. After seven years, since 2010, what extraordinary urgency does the real thing justify that the deadlines for asking for appearances to the experts and people who know the sector should be obscured? Or the weather? The City Parliamentary Group did not address the whole question because we are convinced of the need for this law, even though we do not like the press, and above all, press with a law that is very necessary. In any case, this law attempts to give an answer to what was asked of the monograms and the requests of the agricultural organizations: it defines the object of the law, the planning and the management of the spaces; it develops an agricultural sectoral planning; it works in the analysis of the effects; it regulates the interferences between the territorial planning, the urban planning, the environmental protection; it establishes a system of information more detailed on cartography, methods of analysis, databases... For what it does to infrastructure, it regulates both the general interest in agricultural areas as well as the same agricultural infrastructure, and it also intends to regulate peri-urban agriculture and agricultural parks. And finally – it comes out in the end but it has given a lot of weights – it regulates the recovery of non-profits, abandoned farms, etcetera. But for a text that is, we think, a simple little one – it's not bad, but it's simple – I trust that the next phase will be able to enrich with the ideas and contributions of all parliamentary groups. But that doesn't mean you can't wait a year and a half. Only a project that already existed has been reviewed. Despite all this, unfortunately, I am sorry – and I don't smell it, if I smell more than one – that all this will end as the 2015 Bill of Law, or so, that the legislature will end, the law will fall and we will start again from scratch in 2018 or when it does. Or that much goes out to the professionals of agriculture, that we need it. Thank you. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.240.0	Thank you very much, Mr Dominguez. The words of Mr Ordeig of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue to appear.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.241.0	Thank you, President. Consellera Serret, members of the Government, agrarian unions, professional colleges, Federation of Agricultural Cooperatives, organizations and agricultural entities, to explain the position of the Socialist Group, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, on the proposal of the Law of Agricultural Spaces to Parliament, we have defended, defend and defend that this law was necessary, these twenty-seen articles divided into six titles and a transitional arrangement, which we have been talking about for years and years, and therefore we will give support to it. Incomprehensiblely, 90_percent of the territory of the surface of Catalonia cannot be unprotected, cannot be identified, cannot be promoted for its practical, for its forest management, for its agricultural management, for its agrarian profit, for its ramader profit. Therefore, we defend this..., we have not presented the whole thing, obviously, we defend its continuity, its processing. And above all we will defend it in four different blocks: antecedents and why this law; the contents that this law has and the aspects that we also believe would be better in parliamentary processing. First of all, some preliminary considerations about precedents and the convenience of processing. The need to listen to entities and to introduce better ones, at the same time thanking the department for the meetings they have held with parliamentary groups, which have been heard by the sector. I therefore believe that we have done a good job, as we have also taken advantage of the work that had already been done in his day through Councillor Pelegri with the preliminary project that even he had a report of the CTESC and that in the end he was left without being able to process himself. A historical demand for agricultural organisations in the sector in general. I believe that these are the real protagonists, the ones who have asked for it, the ones who have demanded it, the ones who have said that it cannot be that the majority of the territory is not protected, that this activity is so much ours, so far behind the territory, that it is because of the production of food from all Catalans and Catalans, and also economic activity, because we export a lot and because we are one of the main powers of Europe in the production of food and also in its productivity, in its efficiency... and, therefore, it could not be that you do not have a treatment as it does, a regulation as it affects and a protection of the first most necessary material, that is this, its territory. Therefore, thanks to his pocket and his fight, and also to the fight at these moments of special difficulties also, that some sectors are going through poorly. Also to give compliments to the agrarian monograms that we have been doing at the length of the last legislatures, and that this Parliament in a majority way had said that it was necessary to make a law of agrarian thicks. Why do I need a law of agricultural space? So some of the points have already been mentioned, especially in the first intervention, by Mrs Rovirola, who I will try not to repeat them, but above all because there is a growing demand that will reach the 70_per_cent increase in food consumption until 2050; 70_per_cent increase in demand for food consumption. And, therefore, someone will have to produce them. And here, if we're good at anything, it's precisely about producing food, but we have to do it right. And this increase in food production will not come because of the growing increase in cultivable surface, but because of the better productivity. What do you mean? That with the same resources, or with fewer resources, we have to produce more, not all 70_per_cent, but obviously we have to produce more. And obviously because it's an important economic activity, because it helps manage the territory, the whole territory; because it also has to help mitigate the climate change, and because obviously we have to feed ourselves with safe food, quality food and quantity. Therefore, it is important that we have the front, because, as I said, as has already been said, 90_percent of the surface of Catalonia will be used for this law: 20_percent of conreus, 7_percent of pastures, 64_percent of thick forest. Important– important –: 10_percent of the conreus spaces have been abandoned since 2001; 10_percent of conreus abandoned, and above all concentrated in certain areas of Catalonia, an element that should also be questioned by all folds and that makes it more necessary than ever before the final part of this law, which says that the heat to do is that those conreus who make three years that are disused, three years abandoned..., what they will do is precisely facilitate that there is a lease to those people; link the offer and the demand and try that there are no areas, abandoned cults. And, obviously, important infrastructures have taken place during the past years, urbanisations, constructions, without ever taking into account the impact on the land alone, without ever taking into account the impact on land, roads and services that they give, therefore, not only to the woods, but also to the conreus, the cult, the pastures. Very important, the peri-urban or metropolitan conreus with a very and very important pressure in the past few years... – now a little smaller, but they also continue to have it –, that they are the cults of the metropolitan environment and that they have a very important pressure, that they need a treatment, a specific identification and a treatment, a specific protection and also define who are the best governance tools and the financing that we need to give them so that they can pull forward. I jump a few points, but we all know the Parc Agrari del Baix Llobregat, the Parc Agrari de Sabadell, the parks of Baix Ter, Maresme, the Alt Empordà, d'Alla, the Horta de Lleida, the Gallecs, etc. We have many areas of Catalonia with high agricultural value, other environmental and what we need is precisely that we define them and that we protect them, if that is to be the case. As I said, for territorial cohesion this law is important, as it is also very important to encourage, and that we are already doing through IRTA, research, development and food innovation. The improvement of the productivity of our spaces, the improvement of the productivity of our sector, of the food sector will come through innovation, and this is where we have to be pioneers, enhancing the IRTA and other research centres. And as we also have to do... the big challenge is to do everything with respect for the environment, biodiversity and climate change. The contents of the law, as has already been said: identify crops, pastures, forest spaces, guarets, spaces with infrastructures, agricultural services, etc.; identify areas of high agricultural value, as has already been said, or agricultural parks; define – here we think it would be some better – the governance model and the financing of these agricultural parks or areas of high value added – we will introduce elements in this sense – and, then, very important elements of territorial planning. How can we plan the territory without taking into account those uses that are the most extensive, as they are, we have already said, forestry and agriculture? Therefore, here we will make specific, very important plans, territorial plans, in which we will define where there is abandonment of land; what is the model produced in each area; who are the designations of origin, the IGPs, the marks of quality; the investment in infrastructures that is needed; economic diversification as much and as necessary, as it was said, through rural tourism and other sources of inputs that can generate wealth; how we avoid urban pressure and compensate and protect the sector, and, obviously, the value of landscape also, that would be impossible to do so..., if it is not with this law, it would be impossible to do so with public investment. As well as demanding reports from the Department of Agriculture. The Department of Agriculture will also have to give instructions on how to manage these territories, these agricultural areas, so that you can actually take advantage of it. But also ask for reports to the department when you make a POUM, when you make an urban plan, when you make a territorial plan, to see who are the land-related effects when you make a territorial plan. As I said, peri-urban activity or special value spaces. And also, and lastly, the definition, inventory and register of agricultural parcels in waste. There can be no abandonment, especially concentrated in certain areas. And it turns out that there can't be people who want to cultivate agrarian spaces and, for another band, are abandoning others; with special priority for young people and women, as it can't be otherwise, and obviously, creating a system of information of agrarian spaces that need to have identified which are the agrarian spaces, which type, run from Catalonia. Therefore, here I think there will be a great deal of work to be done so as to try to have identified, therefore, all Catalonia. Things are getting better. We thought it would be hot... in the period of appearances, in the period of emens, what would be hot is to take more account of the local world, the local entities, that can compare. There are many urban plans, many urban development plans, territorial plans that affect the assemblies; peri-urban plans, metropolitan plans that means that the assemblies are very clear at what point in the process they can influence, at what point in the law they can also tell it. Therefore, he participated in the assemblies in the territorial agrarian plans. In short, the impact of the different articles and different contents in the local world. As we have already said, management and financing formulas of high agricultural value spaces, and necessary resources, which we believe the department has no intention of doing so. So, in short, to end our intervention: we are in favour of the law, yes to the law, to preserve and enhance the land, forestry and rowing soil. But above all – above all – very important, to give them productivity, to give them efficiency. The agricultural, branching, forestry sectors must be viable, and this happens because they can create wealth, they can manage the territory and, above all, because this 90_percent of Catalonia, therefore, has a future. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.242.0	Thank you, Mr. Ordeig. The word "Mrs. Hortènsia Grau", of the Catalonian Parliamentary Group, goes on to say "Pot".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.243.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, counselor, deputies, deputies, we welcome, we greet the secretary of the department, Mr. David Mascort; the director general of Rural Development, the Oriol Anson; all the people of the department, and above all the people of the sector who today accompanied us, from Jarc, from Unó de Pagesos, from the FCAC, from the Forest Property Centre. Before I begin what I had prepared for my intervention, I will try to answer..., as the deputy of Citizens, Francisco Domínguez, has made like a couple of questions... I said: "Is it necessary? Yeah, that's what we're all agreed on, so there's no mention of totality. But why the presses? I think we already have a key to why the presses. I believe that the press responds..., or has coincided in time, that at the same time the Department of Territories and Sustainability is processing the law of territories, is processing the Catalan agency of natural heritage, and the strategy of biodiversity. And we know, because so they let us know, that the sector didn't like it. And I suppose the sector has forced the machinery because this law is presented now, that welcome is, because, in fact, it was a parliamentary compromise not only since the 2010 monographic debate, which we have already said, but also I think it was the first motion that presented the CUP and our motion that we presented in April. So, somehow, it was something that had to be done. Therefore, we value this effort to present this text, which we also know that they have worked on it, worked on it with the sector, and worked on it with us. They offered us a first text and offered us that we could make contributions, to see if we could enter it together. We believe that the law's proposal, unlike that of Congresswoman Rovirola, is much better. An effort has been made to incorporate..., but we think we can still improve it, because it's right – it's right. And, besides, the hope that permeates this law did not just please us – I said, counsel, I wrote it. Why? Because we find it a little old-fashioned, we find it a little brave and, above all, we believe it is a missed opportunity to introduce a new philosophy, values more in line with the current context and at the time we have. We will pass a law of climate change, we have problems with globalisation, we have problems of territorial imbalance, we have to bet on a new more sustainable agro-ecological model, so..., and above all, we have to bet on a model that serves to preserve the land, the land of conreu, the pastures, forestry as a common good, as a structure to guarantee food, and yes, also to balance the territory, and not as a commodity in the hands of the great..., or of agro-industry. And above all – and above all – I believe that if we want to overcome the eternal confrontation in the territory – which is not so in the territory afterwards – or this confrontation between the most conservative sector, the sector that sees the most of the world of nature, and the ramaders pages..., and I think that we have to overcome this, because, if not, we do not go well. That said, I think the document... it seemed to me, still talking to the sector, rushed. I believe that, in this sense, for example, there are technical questions of the 2015 bill – which, moreover, have been made by the same technicians – that could have been incorporated and that I think some of them would have been incorporated. And it also seems to me that... at the end of the day it seems that the only objective you are pursuing is to increase the production of food, that it is already good to increase the production of food, but, of course, we have to look at how we do it. In the end, they agreed with us – the CUP also asked – to introduce the concept of ‘food sovereignty; but, for example, it is unfortunate that there is no reference to the issue of quality of production or to agricultural and social farming. And as much as it devotes a share to peri-urban agriculture, there is no agriculture of proximity, of short cycle, that are quite absent concepts, right? It also seems strange to us that it is not spoken, in the law, or in some way appear to consider the environmental services of the agricultural activity. That is to say, all externalities, there are no positives and negatives, but it turns out that the positives outperform the negatives, as demonstrated by the study of the Rural Land Foundation. What happens is that this is a hidden value, because it is not quantified in GDP. But we have, for example, counted – and a study has been carried out; starting from the 2010 study, the Fundació del Món Rural has worked on it –: EUR 926_million in water cycle regulation, EUR 219_million in climate change mitigation. All this philosophy... that doesn't fit in. We believe that there is a legitimate will to preserve the territory, but we believe that it can improve the text and this is what we will try during parliamentary processing. Questions that concern us – because I see that I have a little time left – for example, the concept of "agrarian space, which we believe is fundamental to the law, is confirmed in the proposal. Why? Because you end up with rural farming areas. And, for example, with the forest issue, you need to specify the wording, because, if not, you seem to incorporate all the forest space, and here the forest space also has a specific regulation, the forest land. We may find that we end up superimposing legal requirements and that in some cases they may become contradictory. The finalities of the law. Here is a subject that concerns us very much, Counselor, that is when it is spoken of, so said, to regulate buildings that form or have formed part of a farm. That said, counselor, it may seem, as a free bar to regularize all the constructions that have been done in only non-urbanizable. Clearly, this concerns us, because, besides, there is a whole urban competition here... and it will need to be harmonised. And the same goes for the topic of the connectivity of agricultural spaces. Agriculture can do it, but the connectivity of agricultural areas must be aligned with the biodiversity conservation and natural environment strategy. Because, if not, we can end up creating distortions. And above all, because, if not, in the end, it can cause that, in the same territory, or over the same territory, they end up operating planning standards and normative differences, which end up being the people who are in the territory. Position, the whole issue of land planning; obviously it's positive, what happens is that... – he was going to say a Castilian expression because..., but no. I mean, I don't know. From 1983 onwards, from 1983 onwards, the Territorial Policy Act spoke of this sectoral dimension. No government has developed it. Not ours either, huh? He did it at his own time. I mean, with this, the same criticism of everyone. And now it's fa, but we're also worried about the way it's fa. Why don't we see that in the text you've got enough armor in front of different attacks, that there are many, huh? And many come, sometimes, from the same government, don't they? – and I think of Incasòl, for example. Therefore, here I think we will have to introduce more – more – preventions. It also seems to us that the whole analysis of agrarian conditions is introduced. But here, too, it's going to be hotter to shield him. And let's go to the star product. Well, it was for us, and I think for you, too, counselor, that it's the title of the law that talks about the recovery of agricultural lands, the title of the law. The title of the law is very important, because it is... Somehow, we trusted that this was to be the future land bank or land fund made available to the public so that we could incorporate pages, so that we could incorporate young people and, therefore, that, therefore, the land that we have in disuse entered into production. The one that passes, the one that stays. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We believe that this point has also remained, it remains short. In the end, we have a register; in the end, we have a register in which the ability to do so..., there is the generality's media capacity, but, for example, they have accepted a message to the PP and the City that you would resign from the custody of the plots in distress. Home, I'm also worried about that, because I think it's clear that it's you who have to guard and lead this registry and mediate. So, I think we have a lot of work to do here to improve it, especially if we want to respond to the experience of what was approved at the 2010 monogram. And here I think we have to start, the Government of the Generality has to start, giving an example. And in this register the first plots that should be made are all those that are part of the public heritage of the Generality, for example of heritages, or those that are in the Incas of polygons that have not developed and that are there dead in physics. So, we're going to work with the papers. With what I see, I'm done, President. In short, the last one, the point, right? , which was to have a land base for agricultural and forestry activity, we believe that this is a strategic question of a country and that in this it must accompany the rest of the government, counsel. Because, before the risks we have, the climate change, the functioning of the markets, we approve of this law, we guarantee that there is this land, that there is this access to the land. The current text does not believe that I have just guaranteed it, but Catalonia Yes, it is possible to try during the parliamentary debate that the final text that emerges protects the land, makes it publicly available to those who want to work it and earn their lives and that we can guarantee food sovereignty and the development of a new ramader, agricultural and forestry model. Thank you, counselor, deputies, deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.244.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Grau. The words of Ms. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.245.0	Thank you, President. Counsel, deputies, deputies... and, well, greet all the members of the department who are with us today and all the representatives of the sector. And before I entered the contents of this law, I wanted to congratulate the councillor. I wanted to congratulate the councillor and all her team, so, because she has advanced to the natural environment, to the natural environment department, after seeing, therefore, that it was not possible that this Law of the Natural Heritage and Biodiversity Agency could enter. And it's that the Member who preceded me in the paragraph gave it very well, isn't it? Unlike this Law of the Natural Heritage Agency, this is a law, therefore, that has been agreed with the sector, perhaps not with the whole sector, because sometimes it is complicated, isn't it? But most of it was agreed, and that didn't happen with the Natural Heritage Agency. So, as I'd say most commonly, you put your hand through the face of Councilman Rull. That's why I'm happy, Counselor. Entering the content of this bill, we share – we share – the purpose, the object of this bill, that what you are pursuing is nothing other than ordering the management of agricultural areas in our home, establishing the necessary instruments to give legal certainty to the owners of these farms. I agree that this has to be done in a sustainable and environment-friendly way, but from our point of view, from our point of view, I think that it is oblivious to something important, and that there is or may be an economic profitability. And in this sense we understand that the component of respect for the environment must be, obviously, right? But first the activity has to serve because the same activity can continue, if it will not disappear. And I think what I'm saying is pretty common sense. Other questions that we have not just shared: when it comes to who should be consulted at the time of drawing up the land area plan. Specifically, the article set does not understand why the most representative agricultural organisations that participate in the elections of agricultural chambers should be made. We bet, we bet to avoid all discretion on the part of the Administration and respect the principle of legality that business organisations can also exercise their representation and their presence in decision-making and agrarian management bodies. We also call for the incorporation of the Forest Property Centre as a representative organ of Catalonia's private forest property. For what he does to works for the construction of agricultural infrastructure, two questions. We do not understand that the infrastructures resulting from the concentration actions must have a distinction or typology that is different from the rest. These paths, drains or worn out should have been inclusive and achieved after the concentration process, but their legal regime must be the same as the rest of the agricultural infrastructure. So, you don't have to make a distinction lock them in a different apartment. And a second question. That there is a procedure for the compensation of the colitis, plantations or other assets and/ or rights existing at the property concerned and which cannot be taken advantage of. If this is not done, it will damage the property of the affected and will violate the right of private property and receive compensation. The law also seeks to regulate mechanisms for putting into production until they are in disuse, and it is precisely the title of the law, which deals with this question, which I think most likely may raise in certain sectors. I'll give you some examples. We do not share, basically because there is a lack of legal capacity, that it is possible to sign a contract for the lease of rustic farms when its owner has not been found – Article 25.2. That the administration of the estate passes to the register of parcels in waste does not have legal coverage. There is no standard method that I do not allow – and more when it does escape – mechanisms to locate the owner..., nor consult, therefore, the register, for example, does it not? We also think that in any case, therefore, the forecast of annual income should be included, right? , to be updated annually as a result of the change in the CPI. Otherwise, given the term of duration of the lease, if this rent is not updated, then it will be decapitalizing the owner. As proposed by the bill, we believe that it is not the best system for boosting active farming to establish a coercing and threatening system such as imposing a rustic forced lease in the event of having a farm without cultivation. The same fact of the lack of cultivation can be given for many circumstances, but in many cases it is caused by the same Administration, as a result of normative restrictions that prevent, many times, making a free use of the land, or restrictions on the contractual freedom of leases or similar situations. Tanmateix, in case motivation thrives, right? Therefore, in order to declare an agricultural estate in use, it must be expected that there are other circumstances that are not agronomic or environmental. It's the case of situations... - I've lost myself, huh? ; forgiveness – of legal situations such as now underlying heredities, embargoes or creditors' competitions, for example; facts that need to be contemplated and that need to be motivated in order not to undermine the indicated procedure of declaration of estate in waste. With regard to the voluntary nature, between comets, the incorporation into the register of parcels in the context of holdings of public title, Article 25.4, has no justification or legal support. By virtue of private holdings, where the entry in the register is mandatory, this entry in the register must also be mandatory for public holdings; otherwise, there are differences and exceptions that are not fair, and more so when public holdings are assigned for their own legal nature to serve the public in general, for which reason it cannot be accepted that until public holdings are held by public holdings are in disuse. Thus, there are also several gaps that need to be clarified very well, if this register succeeds: who collects the lease or whose purpose is to use the recaptated loggers. So many questions that remain in the area and that will therefore have to be polished in the processing of this law, right? Therefore, from the People's Party, we will present different points aimed at clarifying all these questions and above all that in no case, therefore, can there be a law that well, that I can intervene, that I suppose an interference to private property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.246.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Xandri. The words "Mr Sergi Saladié", of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed, are followed by the words "Mr Sergi Saladié".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.247.0	Well, thank you, President. Quickly, at the end of today's day, this proposal for the law of agricultural areas that we are presenting today in the form of a proposal of the law, I have already said, for the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes is a question, let us say, that many years ago it was sent out talking. In fact, the Law on Territorial Policy of 1983, in its Article 5, when it refers to the determinations to be considered by the General Territorial Plan of Catalonia, literally says: "The definition of land of agricultural or forestry uses of special interest which may be preserved or extended by its characteristics of extension, situation and fertility. That's year 83. The general territorial plan of Catalonia, which is what should have determined these considerations, these determinations that gave it the law, was approved the year 95, therefore, twelve years later – I have had students, say, faster doing exercises and doing jobs. And this general territorial plan also does not define the land of agricultural uses, nor does it define it; it merely lists a series of sectoral territorial plans that say that they are necessary to develop the territory– of infrastructures, of regadius, of agrarian thickets, sanitary equipment, sports–, lists them all, yes, but does not specify any specific chapter. And of the ten sectoral territorial plans provided for in the General Territorial Plan of Catalonia of the year 95, the only one that has never been drawn up has followed the only ones of agricultural interest; the only one of the ten sectoral territorial plans that the Generality said in the year 95 was to be done, and that was done all the less. So, we've been, are we, huh? Thirty-four years, from the year 83 until now, 2017, without any law or instrument that preserves the soil and the agrarian spaces. And this has just happened at the time, in the period, of the maximum urban growth and infrastructure in the country. In fact, in the later thirty to forty years, we have transformed and artificialized more territories than in the two-thousand years– to put down a few hundred or thousands of years– earlier. Never in the history of humanity had we transformed as much territory and artificialized it as in the last thirty or forty years. A possible explanation of why there was no such protection of agricultural areas could be found, therefore, from the point of view of physical and human geography. The agrarian spaces, the good agrarian spaces, are usually located at the side of the urban spaces, which have precisely been located in these spaces historically for the fertility of these lands. And we could say that there was no political interest in protecting these spaces, because precisely these spaces are the most succulent, the most appetizing, to make these urban growths. And to the Administration, we could say that with a premeditated inaction, which has affected all governments – the twenty-three years of Convergence, but also the seven years of the tripartite – there has never been political interest in preserving these spaces, just the most sensitive for their geographical situation. And as in politics there is no chance, it is not understood that, as we say, this sectoral territorial plan is the only one of the dinosaurs that was said in the year 95 that were to be done with the country, that we have not done. So, we've hurt the best land in the country and we understand that it's a basic resource to guarantee food sovereignty, why eat, huh? It's basically that if we don't, we die; one thing as simple as this, we have to do it every day, that. If we are without coverage, if we are without electricity, if we are without a series of questions, we say, which we can hear as very basic to life, we do not die, but if we do not eat, we do die. In fact, the sociologists explain this very well, he says: "There are three diferences between order and social chaos. You have a company three days without eating and there is a revolution, because it is a question that we need to do all, and every day, more. An example of this, because you see that "now this young man has become a little bit..., we go here to explain lessons, no, no..., a practical example of what I say to you, of the import of food sovereignty: the year 2008 must remember that oil prices have risen, now to July, August of 2008, which caused a wave of carriers to the Spanish State, which at the same time led to a shortage of markets. This caused TV3 to even open the telenews with empty supermarket shelves, which was something that since the post-war period is not known, we who have grown up and lived in the society of abundance always, we go to a market, to a supermarket, we see full shelves. TV3 opened a telenews with the empty supermarket shelves, caused by this shortage of transporters, caused by this increase in the price of oil and fuels used by these transporters. The only product that arrived at the metropolitan markets during those weeks of the wave was the Baix Llobregat, the products produced at the time of Baix Llobregat, for a question of proximity, of course. Those products that were more viable than being consumed in spaces where they were needed were those that were produced in their geographical environment. Therefore, preserving agrarian soil is not an eccentricity of four ecologists or four hippies or four...; no, it is not an eccentricity, it is a basic need that we need to do and that we need to tend like the country, simply – and that is why it is important – to guarantee its viability as a society. Why do we have to ask the question: what if the 2008 situation becomes the new normality? Catalonia is only sovereign in a 30_per_cent food. We are only capable of producing, from the food mix we need, a 30_per_cent. In change, food sovereignty, the principles of food sovereignty to ensure the viability of the territories, speaks that we should have a minimum of 70_per_cent. We should be able to generate 70 percent of the food if we want to be viable. From this point of view, we understand this House of Agricultural Spheres as one more tool that should be used to absolve this food sovereignty, which we do not only want as the CUP, but also as society and as the country. Food sovereignty is based on very simple principles: local agro-ecological production, fair and balanced access to the land, control over the land – therefore, fighting against transgenics –, right from the page to produce quality food, production from proximity to fair prices, both for the pay as for the user, and, therefore, it is necessary, from this point of view, a genuine agrarian reform, that few different products can be produced to basically allocate them to export – that different groups have not profited from this export – to produce the necessary quantity of many different products destined for the supply of proximity markets. It is for this reason that we have demanded this law and its parliamentary procedure to preserve the land alone in order to absolve food sovereignty. In fact, this legislature we have twice, in two different motions, submitted the petition to the government for bringing this law to trial. In the first motion that we did as CUP - Crida Constituent of this legislature in a plethora of Parliament, we asked, at the February of 2016, that, in one of its points, carried this law to transit. And she fell at that time for most of the chamber. In the month of May we insisted again, and we brought back to another place this point of need for the government to bring forward the Law of Agrarian Spaces. And in this second, in May 2016, we accepted a statement from the group that today presents this proposal, from Junts for the Yes, which we accepted to bring this law to Parliament as very late in November, we gave it to September, or to August– well, not to August, which is not fit– to July, to September, and we accepted a statement from Junts for the Yes that I gave to November. We said: "Come, then, agree, to November. We're in July 2017, huh? Eight months have passed since then. That said, we could be glad that thirty-four years and eight months later we needed to have this law and to be able to process it and approve it in your parliament... we could be happy, huh? We could be glad to say: 'Home, we can be debating such an important law for the country, if not, eh? – if not – for a series of reasons; two, basically. The first one's been fronted ringing the bell, huh? , at the extra time. The legislature is running out, so let's just go along with the proper meso – let's hope you're doing well – so the legislature will change, huh? , of course – our desire is that we can be a republic now – and, in any case, from the practical point of view of parliamentary processing, there will be no time, surely, to process it. And in any case, and in any case, there will certainly not be time to have a debate with serenity and depth, as we understand, as the Constituent CUP, which would require this law. And even more so, or the contents that have come to us from this proposition of law, from our point of view are far beyond the strategic goals of food sovereignty that the country needs and that we, like CUP, are pushing more and more. From this point of view, therefore, during the parliamentary process we would try to make this a genuine tool for the service of food sovereignty, because the land is not to speculate – neither from outside nor from within the sector – but the land is to work. Dirty the earth! [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.248.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. Atès... Mrs. Grau, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.249.0	For contradictions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.250.0	Thirty seconds, I own them.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.251.0	Thirty seconds. To remind you... Congresswoman Xandri said that this law had more consensus than the law of the agency of nature. I just want to remind you – and because it is in the session diary – that this law was introduced by the Group of Junts for the Yes, alone, and that the law of the agency of nature we have introduced it three parliamentary groups: Junts for the Yes, PSC and Catalonia Yes it is Can. So, the issue of consensus...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.252.0	That's not allusions, Mrs. Grau.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.253.0	Thank you, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.254.0	No, that's not allusions. [[remorse of the voice]] They're contradictions. Yes, Mrs. Xandri, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.255.0	Yes; briefly, by allusions, eh? Just tell the honourable Member that perhaps there has been more consensus at the parliamentary level, but not at the sector level. So... I think the important thing is what the sector tells us, and not what the deputies say. Thank you. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-07-26-4002.256.0	Okay. The debate is over, and since there are no totalities, this parliamentary initiative continues its processing. Thank you all very much. They suspect the session until tomorrow morning at nine.
