ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.1.0	It's part of the session. [[Question to the Government on children's education]] [[300-00142/11]] Very good morning to all of you. The next item is the question to the Government on children's education, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose her, has the word Miss Esther Niubó.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.2.0	Well, good morning; good morning to everyone. Thank you very much, President. Honourable Counselor... Well, therefore, as you know, education in the first childhood is fundamental; it is a key educational stage, which is impossible to separate, therefore, from policies of protection from childhood, reconciliation of work and personal life, from the opportunities of families – working, training –, especially in the case of vulnerable families, or of fighting against the child's poverty. But, focusing only on the educational age, we know the multiple studied correlations that point to the fact that schooling in ages between zero and three years has a very important positive impact on both physical, emotional, cognitive development of infants..., and school and academic income in older ages, and that, therefore, schooling in children's schools, in schools in Bressol, brings clear benefits in the long term. And this, which would have to do with educational success policies, already seems very important to us. But it's that, besides, we know that it's an educational level with an enormous neutralizing power of socio-economic inequalities that reproduces at the length of school life and, therefore, that this schooling between zero and three years, therefore, has an important impact in terms of fairness. And that's not just what we're saying, it's a recognition of the prestige of educational institutions, academic research... Save the Children, for example, talks about access to children's education as the most redistributive policy and what comes back as a long-term reversal. But all these reasons don't make them look like a lot of fish, because neither you, Madam Counselor, nor your predecessor, Mrs Rigau's Counselor and Member, have attached any priority to this educational level. The compromise of this government, of the Puigdemont, and of the late Lord Mas, with the schools of Bressol, has simply been null and void since 2014. And that seems to us, therefore, an authentic shame. And more when it comes to an exclusive competence of the Government of the Generality. And subratllo that's exclusive. And, in fact, therefore, I could entertain myself by describing numerically what an authentic decline in educational investment has been as..., both in the promotion and in the functioning of municipal children's homes from the government so far, but it seems to me that some graphics can serve them more. [[The speaker shows some graphics.]] This is the contribution of the Government of the Generality in the Bressol Schools: 2011 begins to davallar, 2014 almost disappeared, 2015 disappears and..., what we already know. This is the contribution that is ugly when the Generalitat still makes a contribution of 1,800 per plaza. Therefore, there were thirds: one_third financed the joints; one_third, the families; one_third, the Generality. And now what we have is that families and gatherings cost 83 percent, and that's the deputies. The Generality, zero_euros. So you see. For a lot of people to tell us that we don't have to suffer, because the members of Parliament are concerned, so it has its effects; that they ask the families, that together with the assemblies they are the ones supporting this service, together with the members. And, therefore, this should be told to these families and they should be told to what they have to renounce to access this service, that they cannot be paid. And this is very difficult, because it means that the government, with its inaction, with its abandonment of municipal school policies, has done what it has done is to reduce or directly nullify the opportunities for many children to access a decisive education at this stage. And you will tell me that you will not disagree, that you have come to an agreement with the deputies; but it turns out that these deputies have allocated a lot of times per student much lower than those that had been covered presupposedly by the governments of the county, and unevenly in the territory: 875 to Lleida and Girona, 462 to Barcelona, and to Tarragona, depending on the registration. And this, therefore, has generated obvious territorial inequalities, along with social inequalities. And, look, politically I've already told you, on some occasion, that you, so... this policy or this non-policy towards the first cycle of childhood education seems very unfortunate and indignant to us. But he didn't surprise us, because the old Convergence never thought of it, at this level of education. And, in fact, the network of bressol schools that we have today, so there would be no without conviction, without the impulse of many gatherings, in your day, socialists, who defended it. And, let's say it all, not without the conviction of a very large number of people who, through an ILP, have entrusted this Parliament with what was the Law 5/2004, the creation of high-quality municipal children, which had to guarantee a minimum of thirty-thousand places of new creation in 2008. Therefore, we are talking about an educational service that is the result of a legislative pact demanded for society more than fifteen years ago. But, as I said, neither did Convergence in your day believe it, nor did the PDECAT believe it today, nor the new Left, for so much that Mrs. Simó, therefore, defended it very much in the past. And we are deeply concerned, therefore, about the family model and the social model that the Government of Junts projects for the Yes. But when we got here, so the big surprise was when we learned what happened to the nominative presuppositional parties that 2012 and 2014, although they were very minute, they still existed in the presupposition, destined for the functioning of these worlds. And we know that the government, therefore, did not execute them as a correspondent, but allocated these amounts to pay for other concepts, surely very priority for the old Convergence. Mirin, of the more than 47_million presupposed in 2012, only 7 – of 47, only 7 – ended up destined for municipal children's homes. And the rest, 42 and escaig, was allocated to the payment of delegated payroll of the scheduled departure for educational concerts. And the 45 presuppositions of 2014 were devoted entirely to other purposes; but, again, 39 to educational concerts. And I want to remind you that the assumptions are not very paper, they are not like many of the resolutions of this Parliament, which you are often incomplete, but they are law. And here's the gravity of the facts I expose. Therefore, EUR 81 million provided for in the 2002 and 2004 assumptions for the support of the expenditure of schools in Bressol, which lends the joints, derived from educational concerts. And say derive, because for many euphemisms that are sought, to the Cospedal style, when one executes and administers differently a part that was planned and established, from this it is intended to derive. And more so if it was a nominative game, that I knew perfectly well who it was to go to and what the beneficiaries were, that it was the joints. And I want you to know that the question is not to question that the masters of the concerta should not be charged, it would just be missing. I hope they don't cheat, they don't make us believe that ours is a Croatian against the concerted school or, even more, against the teachers of the school or against the families who bring their children to the concerted schools. No, we understand that those years there was also a game, as it is the responsibility of the Government, destined to pay for educational concerts, of more than 821_million euros, by the way; it is to say, 45 for the schools in Bressol, in 2012, of which only 4 and 821 for the school in concert will be executed correctly. And I'm asking myself, don't you have enough, yet, to pay for the delegate of the teachers, or do you want to cheat on us? Didn't the party for the concertee plan to pay for her teacher's tuition? Because, if that's not the case, maybe it's you who should give explanations to these schools, who didn't think they would sustain those years. And we agree that paying for names is sacred. But we have to ask you a question: didn't you ever worry them, the payment of the names of the teachers of municipal schools? And we don't seem to. And it seems to us, the truth, scandalous and intolerable: for the families of the schools of Bressol, recompense, and for certain parties, for certain schools, double departure of the government. It seems like a scandal, ma'am, and I hope you can give us the relevant explanations today. But, I insist, I don't want false confrontations with the concert, it's not about that, but neither do I think that for you there are priorities and that it's a question of modeling. Because, to my knowledge, the game for children deprived of social initiative has never failed: Abat Oliba Loreto, Love of God, Heart of Jesus... Many of these centers, this game has never failed them. And we don't question it while there aren't enough public places, because the government has an obligation to attend to the need for schooling, but they don't store the ou. And I hope you don't try to justify yourself by adding the difficulty of the economic context of the moment, because I want to remind you that it was in the sweet years of that government of Artur but with the support of the PP of Alicia Sánchez Camacho, who said that they had to take pit, to take Greece to the Administration, to take pit to the retail. And if the Generalita was having a hard time, imagine how the more than thirty Catalan gatherings had to pass that they reported for payment. Nor is it likely to justify that Madrid, that the Government of the State suspended that line established for the Zapatero for children's schooling. Indeed, it was a line that the Socialist Government had implemented to promote the universalization of this formative educational stage, but at that time, therefore, the PP took charge of it. But you remember that your partners were in Catalonia. So maybe it should be with your consent. And, in any case, you share an educated model, as you constantly remember with your votes in this Parliament. And neither do they cheat, that you have exclusive skills. And, frankly, until this issue was found on a front page of a diary, so they didn't give it much importance. Why how many years have the socialist government, with others, been denouncing it? And what perhaps did they not include, this claim, among the forty-five requests that as long as they were making – and it seems to me uncertain – to the Government of the State? I don't think so. And, besides, I don't think they've gone to Madrid to talk about it. Because I don't know if they think that if they're independent, this game, automatically, so it's going to increase, or maybe simply, if that's what it is, they'll get rid of everything they compromise to finance and pass the responsibility alone to the joints. What we are asking for, you will advise, is that there is a rethinking of the focus on a key educational stage; that we do not continue to abandon this educational level, that we stop charging the spaces of the municipal administrations, of the families that make use of these services and also to the members; that we recover the responsibility; that we also cover, at least, the economic mode of 1,600_euros per place and year, with the compromise of recovering the 1.800 of the reverse of the government of entesa – and then advance that we, therefore, will be in charge of completing the one approved by this Parliament –, and that it also returns the parties diverted and not returned together, from 2013 until the end of the substitution. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.3.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.4.0	Thank you, Madam President. Congresswoman, you've started a pretty catastrophic morning. Let's say today will be the morning of the children's lars, because now, you, the inquiry, after the People's Party. And I think it's interesting that we start this way, anyway, to make clear different aspects. First of all, this government's bet on education. Because it looks like we just didn't see it clearly. The assumption that we approved yesterday raises social policies by more than 1,000_million, 380_million directly to Teaching, and 140 additional, with an agreement that we reached in a _second negotiation. Therefore, there are €520 million more at the start of Teaching. This means that there has never been such an increase in the Department of Education. And what does that mean? Millions in replacements, in centres with the most needy, in teacher training, also in the educational care of students, depending on the needy, and also some better jobs. Despite this increase, it's true, we still can't do all the things we want to do. I can't do all the things we want to do, I don't mean we don't want to do or believe them. Because Catalonia still doesn't even have the assumption that it's worth it, not much less the citizens have the assumption depending on everything they pay for. And I can't remember here, because yesterday we did enough, the fiscal deficit, the remedy that leaves us to autonomy without any margin, or the incompliments of the central government, which are many. Therefore, it is not true that we do not bet on education. So much! And we're still prioritizing all these areas that we've exposed before. And we would also, of course, want the assemblies to be directly covered by the Generality for the support of children's homes; but as we still do not have these funds, what we are following is this agreement with the deputies. Therefore, let us not leave the children's homes and the municipalities of God's hand, but go to other administrations that have resources to ask for them. And that's not missing the gatherings, not the thirty, not all that have children, but understand them; understand it if you look for a way out of this underfunding that Catalonia has. And this, allow me, is the great difference with the Spanish State. The Zapatero government stopped financing the gratuity of the three-sy and it became so wide. Then Mr. Rajoy's government stopped financing the zero-three, and it got so wide. Seventy-six million euros less for five years. Do you know how much this is? Four hundred and fifty million euros, for zero-sis, of all the Catalans and all the Catalans, which we have left behind. And that's what we should be shocked about. Because who leaves the citizens in the bad weather is the Spanish State, not the Generality, which has taken on this payment of the gratuity of the three-six and has sought out the financing of the zero-three. And look if we understand the situation of the gatherings, which is the same as the Generality's respect for the Spanish State. But this is the big difference: that while the Spanish State leaves us in a bad mood, the Generality tried and kept trying, and found and found the exit, while there is a state that goes away. And these gatherings know it well enough. It doesn't just happen to us in zero-sis financing, it happens to us in denunciations, it happens to us in dependence. Therefore, it is the Spanish State that leaves us in the background in many of these areas. And that's exactly why, because we want to decide, and we want to keep our resources and decide where we put them. The other aspect that has been taken into account today is that of the transfer, derivation, which has now been said by you, of credence. And to reiterate what I said: it is true that we have to take into account the context, the policies cannot be evaluated without the context. The generality, in thirty years, had had less money than in previous years. There was never such a great deal of resources. And never – and we have to settle here: never – had I rejected so little support from the State, that the only one who does it is to transfer the deficit to the autonomy and have to retaliate the parties. And the generality at that time prioritized. And he prioritized basic services, like the name, and the name of all the education services in Catalonia. Because we need to know, we need to remember, too, that who pays for the name is the Generality. The 70,200 teachers of Catalonia of whom the son is the Generalitat of Catalonia. And two messages... I think it's worth mentioning here, because many times we hear in this Parliament that we don't share people. First, let's let the gatherings go; that's not true. Second place – today was not said, but it was connected –, let's question the quality of the public school, which has a lot of it. And then – that today too has left a little, I think, in the shadow – question the service that makes the school arranged. Because what can't be done is to demonize the social initiative, which makes so much contribution to our country and we want you to continue to contribute to it. And yes, listen to me, we prioritized, it's true, you explained it; but what we did was go looking for the resources we needed. Therefore, the Generality, at that time, guaranteed the payment of the payroll to all the workers, to all the teachers, because these moneys go directly from the Generality account to the workers' account, working on the job. And we don't understand that at some point – not today, but it's certain that at some point – we may have doubted the payment of the names, as if this was a dark interest, when it's a right and an obligation we have. Catalonia has developed this system; this system of education service, where all workers have this right and we have this obligation to recognize them work and pay for their work. And that's what he did at that time: prioritize and go looking for resources where they were. And for what it does to the credit transfer, that you know..., or this derivative that you asked and that you doubted, you know that credit transfers are regulated in public finance laws and in the law of the Generality's assumption of each year, and if you have to make this credit transfer is for the purpose I said earlier. And it's not that weird, it's the usual thing in all governments. Miri, 2007 saw 28 credit transfers for EUR 77_million in the Education Department; 2008 saw 37 transfers for EUR 104_million in the year, and 2009 saw 41 transfers for an import of EUR 93_million. And so we could go on. And by the year 2010, on this derivation that you said, the government of that time, when you were in the Teaching Department, transferred exactly the same money from the children's lars to the concert, and then there was not a time when the premise had drastically diminished. Precisely yours came back 2,1_million euros. And if 2010 was legal, 2012 was also supposed to be legal, and the assumptions didn't have to be dumb paper at the time. I wouldn't like to tell you that the assumptions at the time were paper mullat or I wouldn't like to say that you were cheating. They did exactly what all governments do. And, finally – and in any case, in the next round we will continue –, listen'm, we are in a new legislature, in a fabric of increased presupposition, but what we really want to talk about is: and from then on, what? So, from now on, two years ago we started a working group with the joints to analyze the model, because we don't just have to talk about finance, as you said, we also have to talk about which model we want from zero-three. Together, the department and the assemblies, we must respond to some important misadjustments that you have not made reference to and that you would be well advised to say. The syndic's report, for example, tells us that there is a shortage of seats in the most needed environments. What happened, at that time, that children's places grew so much and did not reach the most needy surroundings? Maybe that's what we'd have to ask, too, huh? Therefore, in the future, more than being able to decide where they are financing, how they finance the places, this has to be a basic criterion. For many families, obviously, the children's home is a resort to conciliation, but for many families the children's home is an educational need. And it turns out that in these places still – in many places – has not arrived. We have empty seats in certain places, places that have been paid public finance and are empty and, in change, we have great lack in barrels where it is a basic instrument of equal opportunities. Therefore, if we want to talk; we talk about model, we talk about what we have to do, which is what interests me. And in this new model that we have planted, I repeat it, as we go on to have more assumptions, obviously we go on to finance these children's lars, as we have done so far, seeking resources in the parliaments; but, moreover, we will rethink a model that we do not share, that is to go on creating places for children's lars, as they did, without taking into account the need neither of the families nor of the students who had more lack or need – forgive the repetition – of a place for children's lars. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.5.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the word "Miss Niubó."
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.6.0	Well, thank you. Well, honestly, I think it's clear that yes, that it's a model question, it's a question of believing or not believing in it, it's a question of what model of society, what model of families we defend, and, ultimately, also what model you educate for some and others. But, look, I'm going to go over some of the questions you said. The theme of the nominative game. I think it's obvious that it was a nominative game, and because if someone can think that if a game is approved that is called "for the functioning of municipal children it can't be allocated to something else that isn't that... If I was an entity of read and you came out of a game intended for entities of read, I would think I would have to come out with a subsequent order making a grant call for it. And that didn't happen. And you know perfectly well why it didn't happen. And we understand that a nominative item cannot be changed, because it is an infringement of Article 42 of the Finance Act. And we ask him: where is transparency left? Because if that's what it is, and they could have done it, which department agreement did this start-up move take place? Is there a government agreement that matters, therefore, about this transfer? Is that all right, Counselor Rigau, to the Executive Council? That's the questions I'd like to know. You actually mentioned that 2009, 2010, the government of that time, therefore, did the same thing. And the truth, so, I don't know, I don't know whether he made credit changes or not. But what I do know is that the assumed match for bressol schools was executed entirely. He's still going to pay for this, he's still going to pay for it. And you said "agreements with the deputies." Of course, the agreement of the deputies has saved the least I could have saved. But the agreement with the deputies did not ask for it, it was the assemblies that sought an emergency solution agreed, because they saw that the Generalita did not take a step to secure the support of this educational service. And, therefore, they were the ones who, as they see, with a high sense of responsibility, trapped also by the pressure of families, who did not want to give up and obviously opposed the holding of nurseries, forced this solution. So they don't owe this to the government, but to the joints. But in any case, then, it said that it was a solution of the smallest, because it has generated more territorial inequalities and social inequalities, because each Member of Parliament does a little what they can. And, moreover, I thank you again for naming Madrid, « the Government of Madrid has detailed us. Listen, no, we won't deny the evidence. That game, set up for the Zapatero to precisely promote this universalization of children's education, is true that then, therefore, it was detailed for the government of the PP; but it is that you have exclusive skills. And, besides, if this is such an important element that you want to defend, we don't understand why you haven't incorporated them into those requests that you as a whole, so, you submit, and in any case, you would have negotiated it with the state government. And, besides, don't tell us they do what they can, because they do what they want. Because you have renounced a reform of the IRPF, you have renounced a reform and a major recaptancy through estates, assets, and, therefore, you are giving up making more educational reversal, as you could with another policy of entry. And for what he said about the agreements between the Barcelona City Councils and the Barcelona City Council, or the different provincial parliaments, what we have, which is until 2012..., actually you have agreed; but since 2012 for now it has not been convenient, there is no agreement, and, if not, then I would ask him to teach us. And what kind of model did you move? Transferred everyone's model to work every year to see if there is a subsidy or not for school breaks. Is this the sustainability of the education level, which, I repeat, is key, is the exclusive competence of the Generality? Is this the model we want? , to suffer every year to see if there is a game for subsidies or not from the congresses? And what we don't want is to give the schools a caregiver treatment; what we want is to provide them with guarantees of sustainability. We believe in zero-three education, zero-sis education. We think it must be an education that is not compulsory but universal. And if we're talking about post-compulsory, then why don't we also talk about pre-compulsory as a right? So, we think there's a model theme; that attacking the zero-three model is attacking our welfare model; that we need a clear bet for the zero-three, and also for the zero-sis, and you're not working there. And we, as we say, therefore, think that the right to education must go far beyond the compliment of compulsory education; that it must incorporate this right into this pre-compulsory education, and above all that we must ensure the sustainability of an education cycle that is key, and also, why not say, act with institutional loyalty, act with transparency, that until now, we have not yet seen it. I therefore hope that the point which was approved yesterday by the Socialist Group, which calls for the return of 1,600 euros in order to be able to gradually increase it up to 1,800, as the Government has said, is a welcome one – and we will see that this is the way it is through our parliamentary task – and that, among all of us, therefore, we can contribute to strengthening this educational level so far and that so many families and groups are exclusively supporting their efforts. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.7.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Niubó. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.8.0	Thank you, Madam President. Madam MP, you asked me what model of society we want. Do you want a model of society where you can't support families with the most needy? Hey, what's up? So that's not what his model was looking at. You make children regardless of that. These criteria were not taken into account. Can you explain to me why children who paid with public money in places over and over? Make more public places than there was. And they had paid 5,000 euros per square, plus 1,800. Is this not his model of society? So we don't question ours either. Nor is it fair, when you did not apply this to this model, that you are now asking us what model of society we want, when we do want this to apply. Why didn't they make these seats in more needy barrels? That's a question, too. You had money, it was a time when you believed, why didn't you make room in the most needy barrels? Tell us the syndic's report: we have thousands of empty seats and we don't have places where it's most necessary. This is the model of society that we want: that takes into account the income of families and educational needs at the time of making places for children. And I don't think I've been well explained when you asked me again: "How can it be derived, is it destined for money? Listen to me, the same one you did: send 150/2010, approved for the Department of Education, 2,1_million euros, in 2010, that you went from the children's lars to the concerted schools. So, exactly the same as you do; that's right, in two very different presupposed scenes. But, look – I've already explained this – what is our model that we put on the table and that we started working with the municipalities? First, look at the cost of children's homes, because it's not all linear. Is it fair, as it was done before, to finance all children's homes with the same import, when they do not all have the same needs, have the same costs, or have the same structures? No, no, In our understanding we believe that no, that we should look, as it was done, a study of the cost and apply it according to the needs, the reality and the structure of each playground of children. Another thing that we already put on the table in 2012 and that some meetings have started to do: social pricing. Apart from funding, we also need to talk about social pricing. And that's the elements we've put in from the table. And one last time: we can continue to blame the Rajoy government, but, listen, Mr. Zapatero stopped financing 71_million euros of education from three to six. That would also require an explanation. Because, at the end and end, which collects taxes is the State, and which divides is the State, and we should also ask the Spanish State, to all the governments that have had responsibilities, so that they leave the autonomy – not only Catalonia, this happened to all the autonomous communities – without financing the three-six, when it is a universal teaching – so, I mean free for everyone. And this is the great effort the Generalitat has made. In all these years, despite this, the number of children has increased, the enrolment rate has increased by 34.8_per_cent, course 12-13, the 36_per_cent we have at these times. And this is the way we'd go: looking for resources to support the gatherings, yes, to finance children's playgrounds, as we did the last few years, and sitting down, as we sat down, with them on the table. We are waiting for you, at least with the parliamentary group, to reach an agreement. We're optimistic about getting there with the meetings, so we did it in the past with regard to the cost assessment with the music choices. These are the elements that we have put on the table, of financing, of priority of the families that need it most and to review where the places are created and that the system is not linear for everyone, because we have seen that this is not just nor gives answer to the more educational function that children's lars have. From here, obviously, they'll be invited, if they want, to talk about it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.9.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on universal access to children's education]] [[300-00145/11]] The eighth item on the agenda is: an inquiry to the Government on universal access to children's education; presented by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word Mr. Fernando Sánchez.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.10.0	Thank you very much, President. And, if I may, I'd like to make a statement, because there were some very hard statements made in this chamber that directly affect me, because I go down with family members to manifest, and the Romeva Councillor of Institutional Relations of the Generality, said that all of us who were there were speakers. [[Widow's remorse.]] Listen, Constable Rigau said she didn't say one thing to the radio the other day, and then, after a few seconds, the size showed that she had said it exactly. Look at the video – look at the video. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] I ask you... because, besides, there is not, the Romeva Councillor, but the parliamentary group applauded with the hoards – all the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes. And I'm asking Mr. Romeva – and I want it to be in the Minutes – to apologize and withdraw it, because it's a tough slander, because it's a clear banalization of fascism, and because it's an intolerable way of stigmatizing and criminalizing what we think is different. [[Greetings.]] And this encourages, for example, and accompanies that the Autonomous University is running whatsapps, to class groups, that demand the expulsion of young people from Catalan Civil Society. So much for this stigma.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.11.0	Mr. Sanchez, you'd have to censure the intervention that touches you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.12.0	Yes, President, but [[remorse of the voice]] I understand that it's allusions, and I also understand that if someone can skip the Constitutional, they can also be flexible with the application of the Rules. [[Greetings.]] Because, of course, some thought that disobedience could only go in one direction, but the problem of opening the door...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.13.0	In this chamber the Rules have always been fulfilled; Mr. Sánchez, yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.14.0	All right.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.15.0	Yeah. [[Widow's remorse.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.16.0	And now in ashes... And I say with respect, no grudges and... And now I'm going to censure the subject that directly affects us – now I'm going to censure the subject that directly affects us. The Popular Party of Catalonia, will advise, wants to start a series of parliamentary actions focused on promoting children's homes in Catalonia. And man can say: "Home, is this the most urgent issue? So, look, there may be other more urgent issues, but sometimes urgency is a disruption of political life, and above all it is the great enemy of strategic decisions. And we think the generality has to make a strong and strategic bet for children's larties. For various reasons, he will advise. First, because this affects 300,000 Catalan families who see their motherhood and fatherhood as a constant mermaid: "Whom am I going to leave the babies with? With the advice? With uncles? With the brother? And we need to help these families, counselor. They see it this way – they see it in many cases – as a hole in the buttock that consumes half the soul. Second place, for pedagogical criteria. And that explains the LEC very well. And it is well collected in the LEC, and it is well collected from various reports and regulations of the Generality of Catalonia. Child education is important for acquiring autonomy, social skills and cognitive skills. Therefore, we must make a clear bet for this period. It is an indispensable mechanism of equal opportunities, and we need to make a precise policy designed to promote this equal opportunity for the youngest and, as you have said now, for their previous intervention, for those families that may come from the most vulnerable socio-cultural backgrounds. Fourth place, because it is an indispensable premise for equality between men and women. And finally, because it's also a condition for remunerating the birth rate. Mrs. Consellera [[the timer shows some graphs]] This graph here isn't... even though it could be, the support for independence these past few months. This chart here looks like the birthmark to our house, Counselor. And that's the pyramid of the people. This, counsel, is said to be a tsunami of aging – a tsunami of aging, counsel. And that makes our welfare system unsustainable and hardly renewable. And you know it. And we have to do something. Now, this will be impossible while holding children is a lock for professional development and a lock for professional career. And so we will not guarantee the generational replenishment in any way. And yet this is especially important for women, because they are the ones who suffer more from that feeling of anxiety, guilt, of the extremes of having to sort, as we are told by the questions, between a full professional life and a full maternal and family life as well. Like men; but in men this has historically not been so. I have to be the same. And everyone has a right, whoever it is, whatever its kind, to be able to have a full professional life and a re-elected family life. And that's why we need a universal and accessible system to care for the little ones. And it has to be of the utmost quality, counsel, because the youngest are the ones who have the greatest potential to enjoy and suffer; they are like a sponge, to learn how to promote them and how to hurt them. And, therefore, we must ensure that it is of extreme quality, also, pedagogically, materially, affectionately. And here it has to be said – and now Congresswoman Niubó said – that here the tripartite did well, and I have always said so. And it's that you've done well in the tripartite – you've done well in the tripartite. Do you remember when Convergence said that the tripartite was a Dragon Khan of instability, abusing constant political instability? And then, have you seen what you've done to Catalonia? Have you seen what they've done? But if they've turned Catalonia into a world of anti-system populism. And you accused the tripartite of political instability. And we're wearing... and we're not sure if for four elections in five years. But it's not here that you did well in the tripartite, it's that the tripartite did well – it did well. And now she was talking, Congresswoman Niubó, of the 2004 law, in which she promoted the creation of bressol schools. But, of course, there was an ingrowth in the reversal. I've brought graphics, now, a little bigger; or go on, in DIN A3. And this [[the orator shows a graph]] Counselor, it's the evolution of the Generality's investment in schools these past few years. It is true that in 2011, with the People's Party, some adjustments began; they had to be made, they had to be made adjustments. Yeah, they had to. And we left in 50 million the game in bressol schools. Certainly, with 50 million, big demonstrations at the door of Parliament. This year, with zero million for the schools Bressol, the CUP, Left and you approve the assumptions. I don't know where the protesters are. But in any case, she advises, this is the evolution of the schools in Catalonia: Zero. Zero shoemaker – zero potato. Zero – zero, zero. These are their priorities. And that's what we need to reverse, Counselor. And that's why we have to have..., and we have to put this black triennium on child education. And for that, Counselor, we need to do a good diagnosis. And I have some questions to ask you. Counselor, how many children go to a Bressol school in Catalonia? Counselor, what's the tuition rate on this zero-to-three-year cycle? How did this rate change these past years? I also think it's important that we know how much one... at the time of making... and then we'll talk about it, at the time of the reply, but when we have to make alternate models, possible studies of other models or... to improve the model, we need to know how much it costs. I... I'd love to hear from you today. How much does a square cost to P0, P1, P2 and P3? How much does it cost, in a children's school, in a public nursery, this square? How many families benefit each year from subsidies for children's social initiative schools? And, ultimately, you'll advise, how and when do you think you'll replicate this model? When and how do they plan to refuel the system? When and how do you plan to recover the reversal you've stolen in the Bressol schools from zero to three years? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.17.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Sanchez. Reply to Mrs Meritxell Ruiz, will advise of Teaching.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.18.0	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Congressman, I've been a little puzzled, because you, with so much concern for children, ended up talking about the tripartite. Actually, he left me a little out of place. Look, education is not an urgent issue, it's that Catalonia is a priority; if not, I look at the assumptions we approved yesterday and look at this as the biggest increase in education in the department's assumptions. And look if it's a priority, that all these LEC articles that you mentioned, so they're all developed, with resumes, with orientations. And, in fact, Catalonia is a pioneer in this. Catalonia has always been a pioneer in the percentage of students studying from zero to six years. Miri, 2013 has already presented the curriculum of orientations of education..., the curriculum and orientations of children's education, and it is a curriculum proposal that fills all basic education and puts the emphasis, as you said you read in the articles, in the skills and skills needed to hear the world and to intervene. And to children's education what we're talking about skills, because obviously at this stage our students can't perform skills; but skills, which are those abilities or attitudes that make it possible to develop tasks, are those that must in the future allow our students to be competent. And acquiring a bona base will make it possible, therefore, to develop its motor skills, cognitive, emotional or personal balance. See if we are pioneers that we also have the curricular order of the first cycle of childhood education, approved in a decree of 2010, that what you want is to contribute to this emotional development, affection, physical, motor, cognition of the children in collaboration, above all, because this is a very important stage of collaboration, with families, all giving them a climate where they feel attached and a climate of trust and that the expected gifts of learning. We also have orientations for the assessment and orientation of the first cycle of childhood education, from zero to three. It also departs, as you have read, from the 2010 law of the Law of Education – July 10, 2009, forgiveness – and it refers to this personal development and learning, which must be continuous, which must be global and which must verify the degree of solace of the educational objectives of each stage. And each of the child education cycles also counts with an assessment order. See if we have made sure that we have all the orientations for the deployment of this curriculum that also derives from this law – which, of course, you do not always defend; I see that today, for which it does zero three is a law that you defend. Catalonia – I said earlier – was one of the first autonomous communities that universalized access to education from three years of age. Finally, if it compares with European countries – sure that you, who are so read, will have the opportunity to read all the reports that Eurydice publishes –, you will see that we are from places where there is a higher percentage of students educated in the stage of childhood education. Speaking of the second cycle of childhood education, when we have already passed this stage of abilities, we are talking about the global development in the first years of life, which must prevent and compensate for the discriminatory effects of inequalities of social, economic and cultural origin. And it is also necessary to unravel in the infant – it is what we do in these stages – his interest to learn, to question himself and to ask himself about the world that surrounds him. And look if we follow in this same line all the decrees, the orientations, the résumés we've had. Many European Union countries have long been directing their policies to improve the quality of early childhood care. That's why Catalonia, in these past years, has worked so hard to improve the quality of teaching. It has been a country that has always been a priority. And answering the questions you ask me. Miri, here to talk about demographics seems magnificent. It sounds magnificent to me, why don't we talk about maternity and paternity permits? Why don't we talk about timetables and conciliation? The Catalonian Parliament is doing this; it would be good if the Spanish Government were doing it too. And, listen to me, why don't we talk about the law of equality? A law of equality that has been resorted to. So, this country talks about it, and it talks about it a lot, about conciliation, it talks a lot, about equality, because we know that what... is key in this country is to reverse the democratic pyramid. And, look, I didn't bring any graphics to the Spanish government, not because I don't know how to do it, just because I had a problem, and it's because I had all the lines that matched me: the bottom line matched me with zero, zero, zero, zero. But do you know how many years he hasn't invested, the Spanish government? Any 2012, zero; year 2013, zero; 2014, zero; year 2015, zero; year 2016, zero; year 2017, zero. I thought it was not worth making, neither in DIN A3 nor in DIN A4, a chart where the Spanish State was absolutely flat. [[Greetings.]] He asked me other questions. The number of children of municipal title continues to increase: it has increased from 819 in the 2010-2011 course to 925 in the 2016-2017 course; therefore, in six courses 106 new schools have increased, and 2,000 more places have increased, giving more than 65,000 places. The percentage of children in the public sector has gone from 55.32_percent to 63.80 today. It would also be useful to note that the enrolment rate of infants of zero-three has increased by 3.6 percentage points, which we value very positively, and at this time we have more than 80,000 pupils enrolled at this non-compulsory stage – this is a very important figure. But we've done more, too. The band of this xifra – here they are not, but we should count them – the pilot test that we have made in rural areas to introduce students from one to three years to our schools. That means that there are ninety-nine choices to be made by this service with 350 enrolled students. And I think that putting in value this service, because, more than schooling infants, it also means a bet for territorial balance. Sometimes we have the habit of thinking that Catalonia is the same, and Catalonia is very different, and this has been a big bet that has been made for rural surroundings, a bet for territorial balance and also to give opportunities for families in small municipalities to have a working life and students to go to our schools. You also asked about the tuition fee or the number of students. I said: the 2012-2013 course had 84,244 students, a fee of 34.8_per_cent; the course 14-15, 79,000, with a fee of 36_per_cent. We currently have more than 80,000 pupils at our schools in Bressol. And these are the data you asked me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.19.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Sanchez has the word.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.20.0	Thank you, very honorable President. Your Honor, thank you very much, Your Honor, for your reply. And I thank him for the data he gave me, which then also allows me to plan parliamentary actions, to say: "Well, how can we improve what we have? There are some that you haven't given me, and maybe you don't want to give them to me, but I would appreciate it if you would do it here, in your parliamentary office, because we need to get to the point of thinking about a zero-three-year education policy for the future. It's, how much does a square cost? Mitjana, or a Mitjana approach or whatever you want, right? But this way we can think about how we can make the system more universal. I also have to tell you something, Counselor, and you did it especially in the previous question, but you should put a little more agreement between the Government, because, of course, you see us here to blame Madrid, and two days ago Councilman Rull, in an interview, said: "To blame Madrid is not very uplifting and impractical. Okay. [[Rialles.]] So, I'll talk to Councilman Rull and agree on a report from the government, he'll advise. But it's that you have exclusive competitions – exclusive competitions – and, therefore, say that the Government of Madrid does not pay... Well, listen'm, that's what corresponds to the Government of the Generality. You say to us: "It is when we manage things we do better. You give it to us from this and this, and you'll see how well we do. Home, as is the case with the Bressol schools, which have handled all their finances, so, maybe they take our trains and everything, that's to say... advise, when you manage, don't always manage well, sometimes manage worse. But I would like – the time has come for concrete actions – to see a little more concrete in this parliamentary opportunity: when will they re-recognize, presumably, the dignity of the schools in Bressol? Can you give us a temporary compromise? The year coming to the presupposition? The 2019? Is it possible to commit here to get, for example, EUR 50 million back to the assumption of the coming year? I, later, more... And you were talking about the model before, and you were talking about the model, and I wanted to face the final part of the intervention talking a little bit more about the model. Who do you want to take back the reversal in the schools of Bressol? I don't know; for example, have they thought of diverting money from the higher ranks or from the state structures to the Bressol schools? Clearly, for many months you told us that you could not touch the assumptions; then we discovered that you were trying to administer differently. So from then on, we'll know that we can ask them to administer many things differently. And do they intend to administer these assumptions differently in order to put 50_million euros in the bressol schools? And by the way, what full route do they have? We want to tend – I know you can't do it right now – to a universal and accessible children's school, and that means free for many families and with an important discount for others. Which models have you explored? We have an extensive network of social initiatives: have they thought of a model of concertation? You said before: "It's that going to build new places sometimes can be a lot because it's not very effective. Do we have a model yet? Have you thought about the concert? Have they thought about the possibility of a progressive school because families can, faster and cheaper, access the school in Bressol than they want, always keeping the public school we already have and financing it correctly? That's the one they're not doing right now. Have you thought about tax bonus models? It is that Aragó, the Canaries, Murcia, València there is a 15_percent discount; Galicia, a 30. We, counsel, are not in favour of this model of relief. Why? Because this disengagement model leaves out the download renders – leaves out the download renders. But we can establish another menu of models, how it can be a concertation model, how it can be a progressive xec model, etc. Have you thought of modifying the LEC to ensure the universal accessibility of this educational stage? In short, counsel, the parents and mothers of Catalonia do not want to choose between motherhood and fatherhood and the profession; we do not want to live with anguish family and work life; we do not want to be pairs as a constant gimcana, thinking with whom we will leave the children today and tomorrow. We want the Bressol schools to be a social trampoline for which they most need it, as the LEC says. And we want a good healing service, without leaving the half of the self to the bressol schools. When, counsel, will you bet on a model of quality and universal access bressol school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.21.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanchez. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.22.0	You said: "Listen to me, return dignity to children's homes. Children's lllars already have them; in any case, it's you who took them out. I turn to the question: when will the Spanish Government make us what is ours? When will they return their dignity to the fiscal effort we make? Because I repeat it: zero, zero, zero, zero, zero. The same question that you ask us, we will return it to you: do you know when the Spanish government puts in policies that were on the march? Zero, zero, zero, zero, every year: 450_million euros that we have left behind for zero to six years of schooling. [[Greetings.]] Look, he asked us about the full route of children's and education's schools: listen to me, keep growing; keep growing with the premise and keep financing children's schools. [[Widow's remorse.]] This one – I said – will still feel our...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.23.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.24.0	...full route. And he asked us about the model. Look, the cost is being analysed and the model is working. A working group has been set up in the Joint Committee to discuss it. At the time it was analyzed, the cost was quite different: before they were financed all of them linearly exactly the same, as if the cost was for all of them the same, and it is not the same a large municipality that a large municipality that has already managed indirectly, that at that time were some nine hundred euros, neither the cost in a small municipality, nor the cost in a large municipality, nor the cost in an area with many social needs. This is the model that we want to bet on, and this is the model that we're going to put on the table: social pricing, that you don't all have to charge the same, that you take into account the cost of the square and that you take into account, above all, that there are families for which... you talked a lot about conciliation, but it turns out that there are families that the children's room is not a matter of conciliation, because unfortunately the father and mother are at home. The problem they have is that they have a father and a mother with a sociocultural motxilla that does not allow them to transmit, therefore, certain words, certain linguistic contexts. This is not a matter of conciliation, this is a matter of need. Therefore, these are the collections that we must prioritize: children's homes in Catalonia must not be as much a model of reconciliation as they will be – and they are too – a model of attention to the needs of the families that most need it. We are not in favour of the secs, we have a different model in Catalonia. And, listen, we're at the table; we're at the gatherings, talking to him. We think we can get to a different model from what has been planned so far, by taking the things that were there from that model, but also by rethinking all those that should be improved. And, you, who said that "they have the management, they have the money...... we, the one who would continue asking the Spanish State, is that they give us the management, that they give us the money and also that they give us the autonomy to have the money, manage them and apply them where we think it is necessary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.25.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.26.0	Question of order, President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.27.0	Forward.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.28.0	Thank you. It is a call to the observance of the Rules and in particular to rule 39.1, which states that the President must conduct the debates impartially. I would like to remind the Bureau, and the President in particular, that on 9 November this spokesman requested that the President exercise her functions, and therefore ask a Member who was talking about the question to be heard. You said that the Bureau was playing when the call was to be made or not to the Members. The problem, Madam President, is that you make these cries when you don't like it, and that is to treat parliamentary groups impartially and we want to make it public, this fact. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.29.0	Mr. Rodriguez, I'm telling you, Mr. Sanchez has been able to explain, and he's been very kind of explaining. And I told him he'd have to ashes when he'd done more than three minutes that he was talking about another question. [[Widow's remorse.]] It's just that, isn't it? Here you can always talk absolutely, everybody, about everything. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't you? Every time you've wanted, you've been able to talk about everything. And if not, prove it with fets. I'll let you know that we'll make a few minutes of silence to show our rebuff to London's tempts and show our solidarity with the victims. We'll leave the ple and go down in front of Parliament, okay? At twelve at a time: we will take a few minutes before the twelve and then continue with the plenary session. [[Asking the Government about the appointment of the new director of TV3]] [[300-00143/11]] The next item on the agenda is: asked the Government about the appointment of the new director of TV3, presented for the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes it is Pot. To expose her, has the word Jessica Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.30.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, everybody. And I wanted to say a special greeting to the TV3 professionals who are accompanying us. Counselor Munté, last week we had a surprise and a surprise about the appointment of Mr. Vincent Sanchis as the new director of TV3. And I say with surprise and amazement because it's a name that goes to replace the rank that Mr. Jaume Peral occupied from now on only thirty months ago. In their interview with Mr. Peral practically when he made one year of his mandate, Peral expressed with concern that TV3 had ceased to be the engine of the Catalan audiovisual industry, that although it was certain that TV3 retained leadership, since 2012 there had been a sustained drop in audience, that the model of graella was old and needed, yes or yes, a renewal, and, moreover, that public investment was too low; in fact, it claimed 19_million euros more, in order to be able to carry out reforms in the contents. In short, he had a realistic view of the situation that is going through TV3, and that is more shared by professionals, experts and also by the citizenry. But not only that: just a few days before the news, former director Peral appeared at the "body control committee" when he outlined his plans to get TV3's audience back on the table, and he was calling for an increase in pressure. I mean, it was an intervention that was way too far from the intervention of an outgoing director. And in that same committee – and now sees the best part – Deputy Jordi Cuminal, who is accompanying us today from the group that supports the government, asked Peral about the coverage that was making TV3 of the Palau case. Mr. Cuminal, of the former Convergence, questioned, and in a very critical way, the treatment and coverage he had given himself to one of the hardest cases of corruption suffered by this party and which, moreover, affects the party's dome, in this case of you two. A fact that is little common, because until now what we have seen in the corporate control session is that who questions is the opposition, while Together for the Yes has spent all these months asking for massage. Clear, water. We have to say and want to recognize the task that TV3 has done in the coverage of corruption cases, both the Palau case and the Pretória case. The confessions of Fèlix Millet, Gemma Montull and his father, Jordi Montull, occupied the space that we believe that a fact of this transcendence must tend to Telenoticias, and he explained, under journalistic criteria, and he also valued the judgment, that he cheated almost eight years on arriving, and that he will mark, and we can see, Catalan politics and Catalan society at these times. A rethink is being made, for example, of how the funding system of the parties should be, and more, we say, how the old old rules of the old parties are being embroiled. That the party that gives support to the government criticizes public television has only a precedent in this legislature, and it is the I ask, where prominent members of the Parliamentary Group of Junts for the Yes, and in particular the direction of the PDECAT, criticized the format of it and came to accuse the participants of not representing the general interest, simply because they spoke of education, sanitation, pensions, and did not speak so much about the process. Therefore, and to frame the issue, we find ourselves with an abrupt decision, which is charged in a fulminant way a director who was only carrying thirteen months and who was asking for a better amount of funding in order to be able to pull forward a public media, in a context of cases of corruption such as Palau and Pretória, which directly affect one of the parties I support the Government, and of which TV3 was speaking under journalistic and non-partisan criteria, which did not please the good part of the PDECAT. That, moreover, we have as director the biographer and personal friend of Prenafeta, who can not remember that at the moment he is being judged, ammig of the reform of the audiovisual law to try to guarantee public media that have a more transparent, more plural and more democratic governance. And the memory that you're also participating in this joint pose. I mean, it's that double morality is a cricket to the cell, which... This need for plurality and internal democracy is not only a question of Parliament's parties, but it is also one of the recommendations made by the White Paper on Audiovisual which was presented a little more than one month ago, with a board of government from the corporation which it endorsed – it must be said that it endorsed – the election of Sanchis, which has been said since its political party, but, moreover, it has half of its members with the term expired and brings a year without president. And, in addition, close to the surrealist contradictions between you, saying that TV3 was out of government, while a deputy of Junts for the Yes, such as Mr Roger Torrent, of the same parliamentary group, insisted that the appointment of TV3 is a prerogative of the Government. So, what are we doing here? So, clearly and clearly, we find ourselves in a decision that you are a party player, that hurts TV3 and its credibility, and that poses a question of professional independence and its plurality. Go on, it's a questionable political decision. And we see that when the opposition denounces you, you squat. But it turns out that when public television does its job, and you don't like it, they turn heads. And that doesn't make any sense, even though they are in the revolution of smiles. No thanks. You've put one of your own into political commissioners. Because someone tells me that a lord who is saying that the CUP..., "is saying no: he said that the CUP is a phalangist; that the voters of Initiative and the United Left are dumb; that of the PSC, of Ciutadan and of the People's Party also said a few pearls; of Podemos I don't know, because I haven't had the chance to listen to it, but see its trajectory, neither would I be surprised. Can you tell me how this person can be the director of a television that is supposed to be of all people when a significant part of Catalonia's society and people has been lacking? And it's so obvious that they've made a mistake in the height of a bell, that we don't just call it ours, it's the business committee; it's the professional council, which has made the manifesto'TV3, plural and for everyone; the journalists' union; the Journalist's College; the Barnils Group; independent experts... That's to say, they can't use public media as their party's propaganda tool, because we lose all: they lose the professionals of the house, they see their work being questioned; they lose the viewers, they see the plurality and credibility of the chain, and we lose as a country, because a medium is a pride and a reference to the whole state, and they lose the viewers, who see the plurality and credibility of the chain being reduced, and they lose it as a country, because it's a medium that it's a pride and a reference to the whole state, that every time it's down, that it's down. And for all these reasons we ask the government to urge the governing council of the corporation, and especially the members they have there, to reconsider the decision and to seek an alternative candidate. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.31.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. Reply to Mrs. Neus Munté, Counsellor of the Presidency.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.32.0	Good morning, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the corporate professionals who accompany us, very good morning to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by responding to this first part of the question by making a rest of the facts as they have developed, to treat it from the highest accuracy and from the highest rigour. You have spoken of "pearls, and I dearly return the comment: the one that has said many pearls has been you, beginning by saying that the appointment of the new director of TV3 has been made, that the members of the governing council have their mandate expired and that the governing council of the corporation is without president. That too are pearls because they are not, in any case, true, and I will try to explain it to you further. And those who come are you; to me it is no wonder that these expressions are spoken with this rotundity here in Parliament. But, anyway, that's all right. Look, you know that – so it has been communicated, so it is in a writing that you submitted – Mr. Jaume Peral submitted his resignation to the director of TV3 for personal reasons. From this moment on, the corporate president convened the governing council and made the proposal of a new director, and after the corresponding debate, this proposal was approved with the votes of the majority and a new director was chosen. All this was in agreement with the law passed by this Parliament in 2007, the Law 11/2007 of the Catalan Audiovisual Media Corporation, a law that was approved at the stage of the second tripartite government, and that is exactly the same procedure that has been followed since that year, the end of 2007, so 2008, to choose the success of the directors and directors who have had public media, television and radio. Therefore, it is done in the framework of the corporation, concretely of the governing council, the functions from which they are also perfectly collided to the law, and here the Government, honourable Member, does not appear by place. In fact, it was the Parliament that chose the current board of government and charged it with listening to the directors of TV3 and Catalunya Radio. I insist: procedure perfectly previewed to the law of 2007, law later renewed in some aspects the year 2012, and now object, effectively, putting a joint parliamentary weight of the tasks of this chamber, of the different parliamentary groups, in order to renew it. I'm saying this because the procedural question is no less – it's no less. He will say to me: "So the government has no link with the Catalan corporation? Oh, and as long as it is -- oh, and as long as it is. The government is related to the corporation through the Presidency Department, which is why I am the one to answer this question, and the government that does respect the corporation is to agree to the function of public service, and to vet for the compliment of this function, to make it the task of developing its tasks through the program contract. If I want to talk about it later, too, because I believe that this is an important aspect, that like the Government and the Department of the Presidency, we have undertaken to keep a close eye on its application in this first half of 2017. And contract the program we're already working on, with very important aspects, surely the most uplifting and the most strategic are the economic commitments, huh? , the economic contribution, the government's economic commitment in relation to the corporation, but there are as much or more strategic aspects, as are the hearing indicators and the quantities, or the genera criteria, or the contents, or the area of innovation, etc. And here I guarantee you that we are working very actively and that we can, therefore, fulfil this commitment that we have undertaken. Procedural questions. Let us speak with accuracy, honourable Member, and let us speak with rigour. This is the procedure that is established. I may or may not please the appointment of the new director, I can't, in any case, contradict him. And obviously they don't like you. But we take into account and also follow strict when we talk about professional profiles and people's curricula. I believe that Mr. Sanchis's professional profile, curriculum and accredited experience is unbeatable. I'm telling you. You don't like it, but you understand that what we can't put into doubt from here, from the Parliament of Catalonia, is the experience, the expert of people. I know perfectly well who the reactions have been on the part of the corporate committee's professional board of directors and other bodies. I know it perfectly well and they are perfectly respectable, but I believe that here, in Parliament, we must be able to be consistent with those norms which we have endowed ourselves with. The 2007 law certainly enjoyed broad parliamentary consent. The reform of the year 2012 was made in between great proclamations for the de-governmentization and depoliticization of the corporation. And now, the joint stand to be worked on in this Parliament establishes the will to return to the previous majority, to the majority in 2007; therefore, perfect. What corresponds to us as the Government will be nothing more than respect for what comes out of this Parliament, to what I finally get the maximum parliamentary consent at this level, and we will do nothing else that will not be respected. You made a very explicit reference to the corporate control committee. In fact, this own divendres, on the 24th, the president will appear in office, the new director of TV3 will appear, as it is precisely in this parliamentary chamber to whom this control of the operation of the management of the corporation corresponds. And of course there will be occasion, therefore, to formulate – I said yesterday also in an oral question – all the considerations, you will comment that consider appropriate. I usually do, and I also had a chance to pass on the debate that was held in this committee. You have made some very explicit references to the Deputy of Juntes for the Yes, Mr Jordi Cuminal, in relation to his intervention in this previous commission. Mr. Cuminal said that "there was no question of the cover of the Palau case, and there is no question that it is a newsable fact, like so many others. He didn't question that. What he asked for was an explanation, and I think he has the whole right of the world, like you and any other Member of Parliament, a member of the board of control of the corporation, which is why it is called control, so that he can ask for explanations on very different issues. In this case he asked for explanations as to why a telenews had been opened referring to an information that was kept by a newspaper of state abst without quoting the fonts. This is going to be the specific question. From here you interpret that the Lord Cuminal denied, questioned that the TN started talking about a certain news, that it's news. Certainly, that it took the courts eight years to judge this issue is not Junts' fault for the Yes, it's not the government's fault, as you can imagine, as it's not TV3's fault either. But I'm saying it because you put it all in the same bag. "Eight years to reach this judgment! So, look, I'm just as outraged as you and much more people, obviously I am, but that's not our fault, I assure you. In any case, I think it's also a sign of absolute normality, and we shouldn't have to say so much, because all – all – absolutely all, we can question aspects related to radio and public television as well. I have said this on occasion: I don't like everything I see or feel on our television and on our public radio either. But it's that I'd get involved, I'd be very worried that it was so, that I like everything, absolutely everything that our public media says, honourable Member. And I believe that it is precisely the responsibility of all of us, and especially all of you, as Members of the Parliament of Catalonia, and, therefore, that they must exercise this mechanism of management and control of the contents of our public media, which they can formulate, precisely, and make these comments and control in the most appropriate way. This does not mean, in absolute terms, that there is a television or radio that is government-owned. I deny it roundly – I deny it roundly. What we have to do with the government and what I have all the interest in, and I put all the will of the Presidency Department, is to be able to work together, to make it easier for TV3 and Catalunya Radio to do their job, with resources that are absolutely necessary. I know the previous director's requests, we've had a chance to talk to him, and I'm sure I'll have a chance to talk to the new director. Who are the demands of the professionals of the corporation, of the audiovisual sector, that you too..., we talk to all of them, we talk to all of them, honourable Member. And I can agree, and I agree, with the need for more resources, but we come from a very difficult presuppositional context, which you also know; from circumstances that absolutely survive that have to do with the conflict of VAT, that have to do with the judicial sensations that force the return, as you know, of 5_percent of the salaries of professionals. And we have to face all this in a complicated presuppositional context. But if you remember my appearance to speak of the Presidency Department's assumption, in which I obviously made an intense, long-term incissance about the Catalan corporation, this government's compromise is to be able to recover some economic amounts that we understand are of all necessity because TV3 continues, and Catalonia Radio, making the public service that corresponds to them, continues to feel radio and reference television, with leaderships that are important and worth the value, and I would like to see them valued, ladies and gentlemen, taking into account competition and taking into account the context of hearing fragmentation and the impact of new technologies, for example...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.33.0	Counselor, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.34.0	I know, Congresswoman... I'm sorry, Madam President, I'm sorry. I'll continue in the second turn. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.35.0	I'm also a congresswoman. It has the word Mrs. Albiach.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.36.0	Thank you, Counselor. I am not saying this, a member of his parliamentary group said: "The election of the director of TV3 is a prerogative of the Government. And he didn't say it once, he said it different. So it's not that we invent it, it's that a member of his own parliamentary group has said it, so if it's a government prerogative, it can't be out of government, right? I mean, here's something that doesn't work. Secondly, it is not certain that after the diver's session, where explanations were asked to Mr. Peral, the same day after the evening was called urgently, for a few, the governing council of the "body," right? I mean, what a big chance. Anyway. I remind you that half the members of the board of governors have the term expired two years ago. And, besides, we have a structure that is anything less democratic, the result of a pact between Convergence and Union and the People's Party when Convergence ruled thanks to the People's Party of Alicia Sánchez-Camacho. I mean, we're not talking about 2007, we're talking about 2012, when they made this change that goes with democracy and plurality in the governing years. No one here has questioned the professional trajectory of Vincent Sanchis, I have not said a word of the professional trajectory. What I am saying is that it cannot be the partisan interventionism that you have applied in the election of Mr. Sanchis. And besides, we're talking about a person who's lost and lost a good part of the Catalan people, and he didn't do it in private, he did it in public. It's just that any part of society that isn't converging, Mr. Sanchis has devoted himself to undermining it. I remind you that you must be the director of the television of all; if you have this opinion from the Catalan people, I don't know where we are going. And I already know it's not Junts' fault for the yes that the court has trigat eight years, actually, I'd say they didn't go too well to get there now, right? They're a little out of line with the election plans. So, I don't accuse them of coming in now. What he accuses them of is that plurality will leave much to desire with the name of... well, these people with this sectarian profile. Madam Munté, as long as you blow your mouth talking about democracy, some public media, transparent, with good governance, with a diversity of opinions, that people in the leadership are chosen for professional and non-ideological profiles are the basis of a real democracy. Therefore, if we carry public media, we are carrying democracy. And for all intents and purposes, I insist – and I have nothing more to add – on asking the government to institute the governing council of the corporation and, in particular, the members they have there, to reconsider the decision and to seek an alternative candidacy, simply. Thank you very much. [[Some applause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.37.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.38.0	Thank you, Madam President. MP, Llei 11/2007 of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans, article 11, "Competences of the governing council: "The governing council has the following functions: appoint and separate, on the proposal of the president, the executive staff of the Catalan Corporation of Audiovisual Mitjans and its subsidiaries. Believe it; if I tell you otherwise, don't believe me: believe it as you say the law. The law tells who is responsible for the appointment of the director or director of public media in the corporation, to no one else. And that's exactly what this law is, and that's what I'm hearing, and it has to be object and I encourage them to do so, and you have all the guarantees, honourable Member, that from the government, as it can't be otherwise, we will respect what you decide on this and other aspects. I said to him, "It's not true that the corporation doesn't have a president. There's a president in office, she exercises those responsibilities in office, she also agrees with the law – she agrees with the law. And, of course, before a law we could say that it is in the interim phase because it is in the reform phase on the part of this Parliament. You can't claim that there are all the expired counselors. You said it literally and you said it twice, you said it twice – twice –, honourable Member, half. All right – all right, all right. The renewal of the government advisors is not produced by the end of his mandate because as everyone knows it is six years old, and the mandate will end, in this case, in March..., or end, tell him as he pleases, in March 2018, but it is produced by a first renewal of the current members, for a period of three years, which was not produced, let's say, when it was played because it was considered that, while the reform of this Law is pending, it was not considered appropriate. And this decision is not a government decision, at all, that this is done this way. Is this the first time this has happened to the length of history? So, no, we already have a precedent with which, touching the partial renewal of three members for what establishes the law, right? , that there are always three experienced and that not all renewals are produced in order to guarantee a certain continuity. I don't know exactly what the literality of this article is, I don't have it in front of me; but in any case, we understand, we're talking about the same: at that time, when I was looking for this partial renewal, also because I was in the process of debating and reforming the law of the corporation, this renewal was not made. So it's no stranger if it wasn't strange at that time, when these circumstances, exactly the same, happened. From all this, I come to a conclusion: I believe that it is time to address, definitively and courageously, the reform of this law because it has been unanimously adopted, it has been unanimously adopted, because the joint debate is already constituted, so the Bureau of Parliament defined it, and because there are already various questions which, therefore, are accumulated in this sense. You've re-emphasized, you've re-emphasized the alleged lack of plurality of our public media. I believe that this statement, that it is legitimate for you to do so, is unravelled insofar as it takes into account the audience indexes, the leadership skills, as it used to be, that take into account our public media. And not only that, but also the value that citizenship makes when tria TV3 and Catalunya Radio to find out. And it does, precisely, because it considers that it is informed with quality, with impartiality and from the perspective of plurality. And who's it worth? Of the professionals, of no one else; obviously, also of the directives, but above all of the professionals. And I think that we would do well to put this precisely in value; to put in value the capacity that a television like TV3 has, which, as I said here yesterday, at the control session, competes with many other televisions – with many other televisions – that have assumptions that triple that of TV3, taking into account the fragmentation of channels that has occurred, the change of habits by the audience. It is a huge merit to maintain this leadership for seven years as a result and also to maintain this leadership in an excellent way in Catalonia Radio. I believe, honourable Member, that we should focus here, to take into account that we have a treasure in our public media, and that from this treasure you have to see with your ability to inform from the very plurality, to defend and to promote Catalan and Arane language. This is a treasure that we need to know how to preserve among all of us. Member of Parliament, today the new director of TV3 himself in an interview in a media outlet recognizes, precisely, the difficulty of being 'the television of all, as you said a while ago. I think he knows, I think they're a lot out of touch with communication media and especially public communication media, this debate and this discrepancy, but we don't lose sight of what we have in the corporation – on TV and on public radio – an authentic state structure that we all have to look after, and above all respect, and from here to Parliament, they're in their responsibilities and functions, they're in their responsibilities to the governing council, and to the government of Catalonia they're in their responsibilities, and here we're not in a gleam. Thank you very much, honourable Member.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.39.0	Thank you, Counselor. [[Question to the Government on the commercialization of life and benefits and common services]] [[300-00146/11]] The goal of the agenda is: to ask the Government about the commercialization of life and common goods and services, presented for the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed. To expose her, has the word Mrs. Eulàlia Reguant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.40.0	Well, good morning. Thank you, President. Taking advantage of the fact that the twelve of us will be able to make a minute of silence, we would also like to be able to remember here, in the Chamber, the 183 murders yesterday in Syria are the result of a bombardment by the international coalition, murdered at a school in Syria. Also, isn't it? I mean, like at least a recon or at least a presence here in the plenary. But getting into the matter, we wanted to start with a small example: talking about the workers of 061 and 112. We'll come to the end: you'll be selling a slot for them that was historic; it was historic because it was the first time that the right was recognizable on the spot, it was the first time that the Department of Work didn't force them to make a few tiny cents, which is like stopping them from the right on the spot. Today we won't talk about the vague right, or not exclusively, but 061 and 112 are public servants. 061 and 112, usually, make ads paid for the Government of the Generality, therefore, as a public service tool, to encourage the population to use these phones in cases of emergence. But the 061 and 112 workers are public workers? No: they are railway or North Group workers. Railway, the construction company; Railway, the construction company of line 9 of the metro, the infrastructure of cost overrun by anonymity of the past years of the history of the Generality and Infrastructures. Cat; Ferrovial, the company of the 3_per_cent, or maybe we should talk now about the 4_per_cent; Ferrovial, one of the many builders– we could talk about Ferrovial, we could talk about ACS and many more – that with the escalator of the crisis, with the end of this era of construction to everything, we could build there where we could and could not, are converted, among others, into a service company. And from here you see that, don't you? , that Ferrovial is now one of the companies that have concessions for the telemarqueting of 061 and 112, among others. It is the demonstration that capital is always – always – restructured and reinvented to remain accumulating, to remain affluent. And today we ask you because someone might understand that we could ask the Councillor of Enterprise and Knowledge, that we could ask the Councillor of Health if we talk about 061, but it is that in the background we could ask all the Councillors why we would talk about a cross-cutting policy, and therefore we would ask you as Vice-President and Councillor of Economy because we would talk about an economic policy, although then it is converted into a labor policy, a service policy, whatever it is, but it is an economic policy. We want to put into evidence a practice that later years has turned every time into more conflictive, even though it's not new. We want to highlight the use and abuse of externalisations and public service privatizations. It is no wonder that he is a gift or has been given the fruits of the crisis and the details, it is something much more in between, it is an ideological, political and economic bet that ends up having consequences. It is a bet that does not exist when there is a battle between understanding the economy measured in terms of welfare, or the economy measured in terms of accumulation, or in terms of capital. And it is in this battle, when capital gains over welfare, that the use and abuse of this political and economic practice is turned into a reality that is far and wide. That's the way it is, isn't it? , is how it was interpreted that economic dynamism could only be linked to all those actions which, from the public or private side, annexed to mobilising capital, and which, therefore, allowed its accumulation. At one point, it became clear that, beyond what he could produce himself..., or what he had to do with the private market, according to the division that made the welfare state between those public public goods and services, and those private goods and services, the main thread for continuing to boost the economy, in this logic of accumulation, was externalizing. Who's for an oatmeal, isn't it? Come on, we're going for capes. We are bringing heads from the welfare state and passing on management, ownership, control of certain goods and public service in the hands of private capital, so it is no longer just about a market regulation, is it not? , and it also takes advantage of international treaties, and it is a clear policy of what they say is free competition. Therefore, what is converted is less sovereign for the people and less sovereign for the people; less ability to decide about our environment, more loss of control of the public sector about how they are prepared, to whom they are willing, what they receive of the benefits and serve the citizenry. All this is lost and, in change, there is more commercialization of concepts that should never be submissive to the logic of private market speculation, and therefore, you are transversal of benefits and serve, as we say, publics to this private market; you are well and serve that should be common; you are well and serve that are common, that are essential, strategic and basic to keep life in common, to keep societies, for the maintenance of the productive economy, but that are passed on to the speculative market; you are well and serve that are strategic for the social construction that we need to do. And in this sense, it's not a question of success or not. It's not a question of context, as you've been selling Councilman Rull, at the celebration of the hundred and fifty anniversary of the Mine, in Terrassa, said. It is not a question of good and painful externalization, as you yourself have said in some interviews in communication media. And no, it's not a question of political dogma either that the CUP - Creed is intended to reiterate one time another, but it's a question of public-private relationship, because we haven't seen the consequences and we still see them. It's a question of public transfer to private hands, it's a question of public policy in capital letters. And that's why we're going to put it back on the table, and we're going to put it down as often as necessary. Why, what country will we build? The one at Ferrovial managing the services? The one at Abertis with the highways? This loss of sovereignty that we say before, these privatizations and outsourcings end up caring: they are inefficient, we pay them among all in the short or the long, and, moreover, they end up generating, and we have seen it on many occasions, a labor exploitation market that has exceeded all the limits of minimum regulation. Therefore, a few externalizations that the end are pre-charitable, and end up carrying the few things that had been achieved years of struggle by workers and workers. Through these externalisations and privatizations, a new poor wage, a new farm, the return of fifty-six hour weekly days as a matter of absolute normality and tolerance, and under the misery of the minimum interprofessional wage, is being established. And it's that this House didn't approve of a public contract policy where there was a minimum wage for public contracts. We talked about 1,200_euros a month, but you did not want to accept the thousand_euros in the month that your electoral programme carried as a minimum interprofessional wage and that this House approved the general policy debate. Therefore, here we also need to read more about the global analysis and the motivations of externalisation and the use of the Generality and the municipalities. It is obvious that there is, and there has been, an offer to finance from all the administrations, but it is also certain that under this excuse what has been done is to outsource to companies that can provide efficiently, supposedly, these services – such as brush or nettle, etc. – all of which are linked to the world of construction, enterprises of the world of construction, as I said to the principle, noting this: that capital is always reinvented to continue winning and, therefore, not winning the welfare. Therefore, here we must see how public administration, before the lack of liquidity, the lack of public finance services, of public credit to finance itself, has outsourced, has come its assets, has expanded concessions unnecessarily. As I said one day, the Public Administration has become a paying and sub-contracting fund, which generates a chain of contracts, subcontracts and intermediary commissions. We have seen, the big companies as they have reconverted, and so we have one question – and I finish and then I will continue –: how does this government intend to strengthen the public sector if it does not reverse the more than thirty years of autonomy and business friendly, of sale of assets and of private supply than it is of all, in a moment of structural precariousness? How do you plan to strengthen the public sector? How will we build the republic if we've passed it all into private hands? Will we build the republic with Florentino Pérez, Ferrovial, the Koplowitz, Sacyr Vallehermoso, etcetera?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.41.0	Mrs. Regant, you've run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.42.0	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.43.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. Reply by Mr Oriol Junqueras, Vice President of the Government and Councillor of Economy and History.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.44.0	Good morning. Thank you, President. Mrs Reguant – and a greeting of course to everyone –, I take the glove from the first part of her intervention, when she refers, therefore, to the most sad news coming from London, or coming from Syria, or coming from so many places in the world. And the agaph – I hope that you allow me and that you don't dislike the present, and if that's how I apologize, but I keep making a reference to the fact that we often have the perception that the world is bigger than it really is, so that sometimes we have the feeling that events are produced in Syria, that they are produced in Damascus, to give us a concrete example, we are very distant. And, in turn, one way to prove its proximity is, for example, a brief historical reference: there were a few decades of our history, or of the history of these lands, in which the political capital was Damascus. And, therefore, imagine if it was close to reality in those moments. O Damascus was the place where the Greek texts were translated into Arabic, and these texts written in Arabic came to Western Europe and were translated into Latin; not directly from Greek to Latin to the libraries of Byzanci, nor from Rome, but translated from Greek to Arabic to Damascus and later, for example to Ripoll, among other places, or to Toledo, translated from Arabic to Latin. Therefore, they are real reality that we are very clean and that we should always pay much more attention. Therefore, I hope these short words serve to try to justify and explain this proximity. Then you refer to a whole series of concepts that, as sometimes, we share in part. In part we share the diagnosis, and also, as on so many other occasions that we have had occasion to talk to you and I through this faristol, so we don't always share the receipt, or we don't always share the totality of the receipt. We are convinced that one of our objectives, the most important of all, is probably precisely the guarantee of quality public services. In fact, we are here to try to ensure that people's lives are better, and, to be sure, a guarantee that people's lives are better are these public servants. Therefore, we take advantage of our capabilities, much of our capabilities, in the background I believe that all our intentions, in the guarantee of the best of these public servants and the quality of the citizens. This seems to us that it is not incompatible – on the contrary, that it is compatible, and that, moreover, it is necessary to do so – with the defense of a free-market economy. And we are in favour of free competition. And now it's hard for me to know that there is no Deputy Coscubala, who always quotes me about this type of question, because it would be a good opportunity for you to feel me directly, but I'm sure someone will pass it on. We are in favour of the free market economy and we are in favour of free competition. And, in fact, being in favour of free competition, precisely because we are in favour of free competition, we are against those elements that distort, those elements that limit free competition. And, therefore, we are against oligopolises and monopolies. We understand that there are circumstances in which there are monopolies known as natural ones, but that even in these cases, we must do everything in our abyss – which I believe must be very, very much in our abyss – to limit the role of these monopolies and oligopolises. In other words, we must reduce the entry barriers of economic agents into markets so as to promote competition, so as to limit the bargaining power that these oligopolises have and that they have these monopolies. And I understand that, to a good extent, we try, that we do. We could give concrete examples of this: the fines you know that, from this government and from the consulting firm of Treball in particular, therefore, they have put themselves to some of these great contractors of services in order not to comply with the regulations, with the legality, etcetera, in order not to respect the rights of the workers. Therefore, there are examples in this sense. If you want, let's say, it's no use to me to recognize that we have a great deal left to do, that we have more to do, etc. But the first two elements: one, defending the quality of public services, defending the services of citizens, and that this is compatible with a free competition economy. Moreover, this free-competition economy, at least until now, has proved to be a driving force behind economic growth, which, at the same time, also allows resources to be made available to these public services. We understand that the rise, that the policies of equity, that the policies of equality, that the policies of justice are to be made seeking the maximum of possible services, not the minimum of possible services. Therefore, we are in favour of this free market economy, this free competition, this search for an economic growth, which obviously must be an economic growth with respect for everyone's health, environment and work conditions. And that's why in many cases – I at least personally and the political force that I preside over – we said that we should use the instruments that we had in our favor, that we had our hands, for example, to be more demanding respecting external competitors in our usual brand, which is the European Union, which is our consumer brand. We had to use all the tools we had to condition the precise employment, social, health, environmental policies of many of our competitors, because we are convinced that these economic tools, this ability that we have as the world's first consumer market with 500_million consumers in the European Union mark, can be a very powerful tool at the time of achieving better legislation, not only among our institutional sphere, but..., to transmit them, to be a transmission correctness to improve these conditions in the world's context. Certainly, all this declarative will that I express to you, let's say it – and that's what I totally agree with you, as I said to the principle –, tops, has met very often, continues to find, sure, with a reality that we also perceive deeply unfair. And we are also convinced that a good part of the evils practiced, of the practical evils that have been generalized, that they have arrived at their culmination in the housing financing cylinder, they have gone beyond, they have gone beyond other areas of the economy. And, in fact, and here I don't only see the evils that we've suffered, and that part of it we're suffering, but I would also like to put a warning on the evils that we can get to suffer. And in this sense I understand that I am speaking to what you said, and it is: we are ahead of a situation of monetary offer never seen in the conjunction of world economies, and this will end up feeling, already in good measure, an impression of the search for possibilities for reversal in an economic context in which these possibilities for reversal are limited. And, therefore, there is an overpressure of the monetary offer, of capital, in search of opportunities that he does not always find, or that he does not find in the dimensions that he is looking for at those times. And this favors a success of bubbles, speculative bubbles, and, therefore, it is likely – likely, at least – that we are ahead of a scene in which these speculative bubbles will happen one row very quickly, and that they will grow very quickly and enslave very quickly with enormous distortions of economic reality and social reality. Therefore, we must use the tools that we have in our abyss, as well as the country as in the international mark in which we are, precisely to limit this. And that's what we try every day. We try, for example, to strengthen public services in the field of teaching, in the field of salvation, by putting all or most of the resources available precisely in these areas, because it seems to us that an emergency situation, a situation of social urgency, needs to be addressed. And, I insist, our responsibility – and I am connected with the debate that ended yesterday and with the vote that we had yesterday on assumptions and accompanying law – not just my own, which I also like, and which I take for granted, but I understand everyone else's, is to ensure not only that the assumptions are the fairest at the present time, but also that they are the best assumptions in the future. And this is only guaranteed with greater economic capacity, with more economic growth and, sense of doubt, also, indispensablely, with income rebalancing policies, with policies for the wage band, for the tax band, for the public service distribution band. And from this, we, we are absolute supporters, let's say it. In any case, we may have differences about intensity or rhythm, or maybe semantic character differences, and more there may be some numerical character differences. Okay. But in any case, I understand that we share the essence of this objective of dedicating ourselves to this precisely in order to improve the reality of the people, to improve the living conditions of our fellow citizens and the citizens of the world. I hope that the example I have set of how we can use our capacity for consumption to condition wage policies, environmental policies and health policies on the planet as a good example.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.45.0	Thank you, Vice President. There's the word Mrs. Regant.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.46.0	Thank you. No, we don't share it, but it's a reality: no, we don't. We do not share that the free competition is the driving force behind growth. What kind of growth? From the growth of macroeconomic data, but not from the reality of people's day-to-day lives. And what this is about is that in the economy, in the performance of public services, what we do is that the microeconomic data of the population are not the same as they are now. And here what's important is how we generate material life conditions for people, how we improve those material life conditions for people who don't have it right now, and who now have trouble finding work, but have difficulty accessing public services. With what? At a time when wage devaluation has become, like the European policy of this European Union, the way to maximize benefits: wage devaluation to maximize benefits. And, therefore, we are entering a wheel from which it is very difficult to get out, because if we devalue salaries to maximize benefits – capital, of course, not from everyone or the public sector – and the public administration enters by means of taxes, as we have devalued salaries the people, so it will pay less taxes, so the public administration will have less capacity to provide public services, and therefore it will externalize and privatize more. It's a fish that moves the cua. It is clear that this is a key issue that we raise and it is a key issue at the economic and political moment that we live at national level, but it is also an international issue, because it is an extended policy. And it is true that many of these companies that exceed or exceed their power have been placed, but beyond the many, why should they continue to serve those companies that systematically violate rights? Or go on, it's not so much about putting a fine on them. If we put in many large service companies, we put in many that have been converted systematically to stay in power, they continue. The central element is how we manage these externalisations, to which companies, that is, in the fund we end up generating monopolies. There are employers of everything, now there is also the employer of services, the employer of services with Ferrovial, ACS and Grupo Norte, with all these, were constituted four months ago. They, who were the anonymous builders of this country and who filled the butxaques thanks to all the public contracts of contract, have now seen the nixol of the market here, and have gone here, so calm, and enjoy a European policy of devaluation of wages, and therefore of precariousness, in order to maximize benefits. And what it cannot be is that we, like the Public Administration, as guarantors of public services, dedicate ourselves to continuing to externalize these enterprises, and that we dedicate ourselves to selling common goods and not putting all the tools in the public administration at the bottom because citizenship can control public goods, because if they are public goods, common goods, if they are common, collectius, of all, we must also be able to control them. And that doesn't exist. There are no and we find ourselves in situations – as we said yesterday in the question to the President – as when there is an obvious conflict in a municipality, an obvious conflict between the willingness of a joint venture to recover a common good, the management of a common good, and there is a company that is pressing and threatening; the Government of the Government on whose side it stands? Let us ask ourselves this, too: it is to say, before the initiations of the recovery of common goods by municipalities, from municipalities where you are also there and bet, from which side is laid to the government? Do we really give tools why can the joints do this? As I said before: Do the assemblies and the public administrations have the capacity to access public credit so that they can do this? Or should they continue to go to private credit and, therefore, is it also a way for themselves to outsource and privatize? Do we have tools to collectively, at the level of the municipalities and at the level of the city, we can also debate and recover these externalised and privatized public services, and these common benefits that must be at the service of all and not at the service of obtaining benefits for a few? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.47.0	Thank you, Mrs. Regant. The vice president's answer.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.48.0	It's an exciting topic. I share with you your indignation before certain situations. I'll give you a concrete example, eh? I've been... I've been lucky, I've been acting as mayor of a metropolitan city, and I've found a contract for a water concession, for example, 50 years ago, and I've found it fatal and I've criticized it with all my strength. And if you tell me, "Listen, we'd have to find ways to limit this, that this can't happen, that you can't make these concessions in such a long time, etc., I totally agree. And I've explained many times – and I hope that this helps to hear the indignation I share with you – that my nets will pay in the waste water a benefit that someone spent fifty years before. And, therefore, we should also find mechanisms that limit the misuse of public resources by some public officials. Therefore, I share his indignation, I also share the experiment, and the experiment thinking of those whom I cherish most. You know that I take this very seriously, let's just say. People are very grateful and very critical, but listen, we're here to help the people we think, and the more people we think we'll help. Therefore, with all my intensity I share this indignation that you express, in the same way that you could not set an example seeming – not so important, but seeming – in the area of the gathering of scumbraries, etcetera. Therefore, in this sense, total indignation. Therefore, we are looking for instruments that limit this. Okay. Now, let me give you an example not with the will that this example is intended to be universal, only punctual, but I understand that it has a point of delight because I understand that it invites you to think, that it invites you to reflect, and, therefore, if you serve for this, how I always say that I do not speak to please but to try to be useful, if you serve to invite reflection, so I would feel satisfied. In the 1980s the North American metal workers' unions planned to make a bid to demand from the U.S. government of the time that they apply orange barriers or import quotas against the cars manufactured in Japan. It's a debate that is now reemerging very strongly. Someone in those North American metal·lurgical unions of the eighties made the following suggestion: if instead of making a move against the government to pressure the government of the United States, why put more oranges or set import quotas against Japanese vehicles, we make a move or pressure the government of the United States because the government of the United States pressure the government of Japan to improve the working conditions and, for example, the vacation days or wage conditions of Japanese workers, we will achieve the same objective, which is to limit the competitiveness of the Japanese automotive industry respected by the North American, but more than that, we will have achieved that the Japanese workers visquina thousand. And those North American metallurgical unions chose this way. Listen, I think you have a point too. I don't know if they agree, if they don't agree, but it has a hint and it's an example of what I was trying to explain before, in a more abstract sense and now perhaps in a more concrete sense, that we can use instruments that we have in our abyss to try to improve living conditions, not just the people who lived in our country, but to try to improve living conditions for everyone. And the example of the capacity of trade agreements signed by the European Union – with which we may or may not agree, but, in any case, it signs trade agreements – to pressure the states with which it signs these agreements to improve the environmental conditions, the health conditions and the social conditions of its respective workers also seems to me to be an excellent example. It seems to me, excellently, more than we agree or not conceptually with the European Union, but as it is a useful tool, useful in the current context, at least let's say it. Therefore, it seems to me that there are many things that we can do, and certainly many things that we can do from the sovereignty of a state, from the future republic, and many things that we can do too, or we will need to do from a much broader international scale, because many decisions, if we only take them alone, beyond what is going on around us, are very little effective – very little effective. Therefore, it is also a question of scale, and the effectiveness of our decisions depends on the scale in which we adopt them. Therefore, I am delighted to look for mechanisms that limit many of the abuses that have taken place, that limit many of the abuses that can be done, and at the same time, I also like to be able to refer to some examples that seem to me to invite us to reflect on the question of the ports of call and the question, too, of how we can influence to make a better world, and not only in our immediate surroundings, but in the conjunction of the planet. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.49.0	Thank you, Vice President. [[Question to the Government about social services related to the disruption of the driver's spectrum]] [[300-00147/11]] The next item is the question to the government about social services related to the disruption of the driver's spectrum, presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word the lady Lorena Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.50.0	Yes, thank you, President. Good morning, counselor, deputies, deputies. Well, counselor, today we want to talk to you about the autistic spectrum disorder. Go ahead that this inquiry has the intention of being constructive, and go ahead, too, that it challenges you, Mrs Bassa, but that inevitably issues that are not strictly from your department will arise since this matter, as you well know, is a very transversal matter. These days, while I was documenting myself to be able to make this inquiry, I tried to find a definition of what the autistic spectrum disorder is. I thought it would be an easy task, but I was wrong. Within this autistic spectrum disorder we can find various typologies and degrees. It is so heterogeneous, this type of disorder, that even professionals say there are as many types of ASD as people diagnosed. While I was looking for this definition I went with this illustration. I teach her... I don't know if she sees it well, but if I don't explain it: there's a person who's like locked inside a bottle – the truth is that he reminded me a little bit of the story of the genius inside the lamp– ; around there are ice cubes, like coldness, and by the narrow neck of the bottle come out of this person's mind, so some thoughts. This illustration seemed to me the best definition of all that I had found so far, and even more so knowing that this drawing was part of a project made by the association Afapade ; it is an association that works with people diagnosed with this disorder and that also works with their families. Well, I'll teach you again: this part of here would be thoughts, and this part was a drawing made by Miguel Ángel, a person affected by TEA, and the rest, an artist who collaborated with this project. These days I have realized that I knew very little about what this type of disorder is about, or exactly what it was about. I knew it was a developmental disorder. He also knew some symptoms, such as having difficulty communicating themselves, having difficulties in social interaction, which in some cases show restrictive and repetitive behaviors. But, beyond this, I no longer knew about the disorder. And the problem, counsel, is that, like me, a lot of other people don't know him either, and therefore, when parents face a diagnosis of this kind, they are totally lost. Imagine if or let us all imagine that it is we who receive this diagnosis. And no longer just that: let's also imagine every month before until a professional confirms to you that suspicion you never wanted to have. Because it's not easy to get to the diagnosis – we already said it was a very complex disorder – but above all it's not easy to understand that your child needs that diagnosis, that there's something that hasn't been quite right, that your child has a different pace than the rest of the children his age. Look, frustration, misunderstanding, disorientation, loneliness, anguish or anger are some of the feelings that all parents experience when they see something happen, which is not just a matter of time, but that their children are increasingly further away from development standards. We'd like to know what your department is doing about it. And I explain myself: look, information to families is paramount, and it is because early detection and treatment are fundamental. Experts agree that this early detection ensures a better prognosis and quality of life for these people, as well as can also correct and compensate for this child development, and may also provide for deeper developmental alterations or more severe disability conditions. Therefore, this early treatment and this early diagnosis are fundamental. Look, the symptoms of ASD appear in very early stages of life, between eighteen and thirty months these symptoms are already manifested, and therefore it is an age at which many children do not even go to day care, but are with their parents. That is why it is so important to make the disorder known to the entire society, to inform about the symptoms and that parents know what they can do and where they can go, where they can go to ask for help when they detect these symptoms. In this regard, a few days ago the Government presented the Comprehensive Care Plan for People with Mental Disorders and Addictions, a strategy that must be used for the next two years. Look, in its objective 2.1 it says: "To carry out, with the collaboration of expert professionals and family associations, an institutional campaign to inform and raise awareness about autistic spectrum disorders. Well, we are very pleased that this campaign will be included here, because this campaign is the result of a resolution proposed by Citizens, namely number 84 of this same legislature, which was adopted almost a year ago. Therefore, and despite the fact that we have been waiting for a year, we are celebrating it, and we hope that it will not take another year to materialize itself. In fact, a good date to start with this campaign would be the next 2nd of April, world day for awareness about the autistic spectrum disorder. Have you been thinking, counselor, of holding an institutional event for this day? We'd like you to inform us about this. Despite being happy with this inclusion, I have to tell you that we expected more of this strategy, much more. Look, yesterday we were able to hear, in a question that was asked here to the Government by comrade Magda Casamitjana, the goodness and virtues of this strategic plan, a tool that, as we were told, demonstrates the transversality of mental health disorders, and a tool that seems to be the magic solution for all the challenges that mental disorders and addictions pose to us. Let me put it into question, because what we find in this plan, which I have here, are many phrases of the kind: « to continue pushing, « to continue encouraging, « to give continuity. Also many good intentions, but it is that these were already contained in the previous plan, and to date they continue to be that: intentions. Families are helpless; families do not need forty pages of intent, they need concrete actions, and they already need them. Look, we have problems because of a lack of resources that directly affect, for example, this early diagnosis I was talking about. We need to spend more money on mental and youth health centres. We need staff specialized in classrooms, with specific training in ASD. Are there enough public schools with this specialized staff? How many schools do we have available for a specialized service unit, a USEE? In addition to this specialized staff, do the rest of the educators also have specific training in ASD? And in non-compulsory education, are there staff with specific training in this type of disorder, for example in vocational training? And no longer just in the classrooms: in the school dining rooms, are there people with specific training so that these children can stay in the school dining room like the rest of the children? What about extracurricular activities? Or when summer comes, counselor, can you enjoy some colonies, like the rest of the children, by people with specific training, with your classmates, for example? I imagine, counselor, that this is the Department of Education's jurisdiction, but do you know what's going on? That families are overcrowded. And that their children can stay in the dining room, that they can do extra-curricular activities or that they can go from colonies with the peace of mind of knowing that there are people with specific training is also a breath for these families, and therefore, it is part of the task of accompanying the families that has their department as function. In fact, in their comprehensive plan we are told that "it is essential to improve the quality of life of caregivers, providing them with a rest time, on page 26, in case you want to look at it, she advises, where she speaks precisely of the services of breathing. Which, by the way, puts in the plan: « Promote the deployment of Breath programs. It sets the date for the first half of 2018. How much longer do families have to wait, counselor? We would also like to know what happens when they finish the school stage. Is your skills and needs monitored throughout your life, as well as your families and caregivers? Because this is also a proposal from Citizens that was made a year ago and that is not being implemented either. What offer of protected apartments exists for adults with ASD? It is essential to promote their autonomy, as is employment. See, according to data from Autism Spain, a confederation that groups and represents seventy_and seven entities of the third sector of social action promoted by relatives of people with ASD, only 10_per_cent of people with disorders of this type find work throughout their life. Yesterday you were talking to us about funds and youth guarantee programmes. Is there a program for young people with autistic spectrum disorders? Is there any kind of work placement program that enhances your skills? Because, for example, when we talk about ASD, we also need to talk about high-capacity ASD, for example. Do you really want us to miss this talent? I'm telling you, we do want to take advantage of that. We do not want the genius to remain in his lamp or in his bottle, like the drawing he taught him at first, and even less so because of lack of opportunity. But not only did we talk to her about high-capacity ASD, no; we also talked to her about cases such as Carly Fleischmann, a girl diagnosed with severe autistic spectrum disorder and intellectual disability. Carly has never spoken, and the doctors told her she would never speak; but she has managed to communicate herself through a computer. She does so, there are others who choose other forms of communication, such as music: a few months ago the news brought us the story of Kaylee Rogers, a girl who played Leonard Cohen's song « Hallelujah – I don't know if they've heard it, but I recommend they do, because it's simply impressive. Look, do you know why today we know who these girls are? Because someone once decided to rub the lamp so that the genius would come out, someone decided to give them the opportunity they needed to get out of their bottle. And that's also what we want in Citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.51.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. Reply to Mrs. Dolors Bassa, Counsellor of Work, Afers Socials and Families.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.52.0	Thank you, President. Thank you very much, Mrs Lorena, for your question today. And he wanted to thank precisely the temporary opportunity to do it today because today itself begins the Fourth International Congress of Autism, for four years as a result, that many and many professionals from all over the world are there and that is done in Murcia. So, very close to here. Therefore, very well for time and also, as you said, because April 2nd, therefore, from now on, is the World Day of Consciousness about Autism, declared by the General Assembly of the United Nations, with the aim of highlighting the need to improve the quality of life of children and adult autists because they can enjoy a full and dignified life, which is celebrated since the year 2008. This year's motto – I suppose they know it – is ‘Cape to autonomy and self-determination, and as every year it will be doing it is brightly illuminating many world-wide buildings to give visibility to these collections. Normally when I ask questions I don't like to talk about myself personally, but I think it's important to talk about it in this case, because the syndrome and the case of ASD know them very well: I belong to a family that knows the subject. But, apart from the importance and the conceptual opportunity, she wanted to thank some Members of this Parliament: Mrs Sonia Sierra, of her group, because in the Health Committee she presented the motion for a resolution a year ago, which you said yourself, but also very much to Naomi de la Calle, because in the Committee on Social Affairs several times she has addressed the issue and, for example, on April 13, 2016, she herself said: "Although much progress has been made in the search for ASD, we have much work to do. But she wanted to give thanks in particular to a Member, Mrs Gemma Lienas, who, when she did a week of counseling, came to me and told me: "Listen, there is a subject that she wanted to comment on, not only for what I have written from The Shining Trace of the snail, a magnificent book, on which in Sam, a seven-year-old, explains the difficulties and how it communicates and interacts with the world..., but what she or her group saw, directly from the difficulties that we had between the department. Therefore, I believe that today is a waste, since it is not the temporal opportunity but also conceptual, to make these thanks to the people. Autism has existed for many years now; we are not looking for it in the dictionary or for the work we do since the department, but for many years now. And there are many entities in Catalonia. Therefore, of the thanks I want to give the thanks in particular to two entities with whom we have a constant contact from the department: the entity Junts Canviem, which was born to Arenys, therefore, of the Maresme, and that of Learn, which recently made a appearance to the Parliament, on November 18, 2016 ; but also to the Apafade, which is the association of parents with children that you referred to; to the APNA ; to the Congost Autism Foundation ; to Fecaa, the Catalan Federation of Autism ; to TEAsperger, from Vallès ; to TEAdir, from Girona ; to Mira'm ; to Open up to the Món ; to Apnabi ; to Fespau, because of all or of the information directly related to people. But also, above all, a thank you to CDIAP professionals. Working one way or another, because you need to know that there are different ways to diagnose, to do the treatment and to work it, in one way or another give the maximum of if, even many have made books and written because you can know this syndrome. I think it's important that we take this into account today. People with disabilities..., who, as a senator of their parliamentary group quite rightly said, cannot talk about "people with disabilities because we would talk about "discussiveness, and therefore this is not the concept we want to hold, they demand the right of individual autonomy and independence as a person, but also of legal capacity, and this legal capacity is essential for the recognition of a person as a full human being, with the right to make decisions and to conclude their own social contracts to live day by day. There are abilities that have been considered necessary to enjoy this individual autonomy, and in some societies people with autism are expelled. In Catalonia many years ago, many years ago, many years ago, they did not allow the violation of their human rights, which would mean, for another group, a loss of human potential. People with autism also own a wide range of competitions in Catalonia. In fact, the rights, the prospects and the welfare of people with autism and of all people with autism, which we do not want you to say, as I said before, your Senator Tomás Marcos, in March 2017, so it is two months ago that you speak of people with autism here, in the Senate and in the Congress, so I suppose that is the star theme of this time, because of the temporal opportunity, you must also say, and so they agree with it... So he was talking about making this change. And I believe that it is the 2030 European Agenda, and the compromise that we all have, and in particular this government, to push all the principles of this European agenda forward. It is clear that it should promote the right of people with autism, their full participation and inclusion in society, so that they can contribute to creating a future of dignity and opportunity. From the department, and you said it, we work for a more developed society, but it's not just a department issue, it's a topic that affects a lot of areas, so it's not a one-way job, but we need to combine it with health, education and employment policies. For this, a few days ago, on the 13th, we presented how to govern the integral plan of care for people– you also referred – with mental disorder and addictions, with the strategy 2017-2019, which is not new, because it sees from an earlier plan, which has precisely fulfilled all the objectives. The Councillor of the Presidency, yesterday, with a question saying that it is a political and country strategy, and it is clear that it is for two themes: for the cross-cutting action that it has, intense, and for the principles that govern it. This integral plan is marked by twenty-nine objectives, not just the 2.1 that you have not commented on, and one of the important objectives is to work for promotion, prevention and attention to mental health, from social entities, some of which work in autism, as I said before. These entities, apart from making the dissemination and the dissemination, are providers of services, professionals, representation of families and people with diagnostics of these disorders. And, as it could not be otherwise, with the participation of all the departments that we have said before, that I have certainly left it justicia, that there is now the counselor, and that there is also participation. Therefore, a plan that has a marked cross-sectional character, that requires a team and network work, of all the actors involved: administrations, professionals, users, family – important – and entities of the sector, and in the presentation we had, also, many family members of autism syndrome. We are convinced, and that is why we have done so, that only the joint work is what will make us guarantee this model of attention, an attention in which we begin to pass..., and I think that we should have done so many years ago, but, as in all matters, difficulties or knowledge, which, as you said, there are still many families that do not have..., should have changed. We need to move from welfare to community action – and hence, MP Gemma Lienas is not a strong advocate – focusing on the needs of people, who have the active participation of all, and families in the home. I have prepared, to explain it there, everything we do in early care, but I see that in time, therefore, I will explain to you what is the CDIAP's part, what we are working on, especially from the department, and what interaction we have with the CSMIJ, which, as you know, is one of the issues that we are worrying about and moving forward, and that is why this new plan will make a great deal of progress on these issues. Therefore, I would leave it here and let's continue with the inquiry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.53.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. I've got the word Mrs. Roldán.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.54.0	Yes, thank you, President. First of all, I would like to say that I too join in these thanks that the Lower Councillor has made to all these entities that have been struggling for a long time precisely to make this disorder known, and also to help and facilitate the lives of people diagnosed with ASD. I would also like to add my thanks to the colleagues in this Chamber for their sensitivity; I am sure that they are not only these two Members, but also many of the Members of this House, this is important to point out. You told me at the end of your speech that you had not given me time to explain the measures. Of course, you have had ten_minutes and you have not answered anything I have asked you, because I have asked you very specific questions: I have asked you how many public schools, for example, have specialized personnel; I have asked you in how many public schools we have the USEE, specialized service units. I asked him, too, no longer just for the classrooms, but in the school dining rooms: families tell us that they can't let their children eat in these school dining rooms because there are no specified personnel; the same with extra-school activities, the same, also, with the colonies. We were talking about families being overwhelmed, families feeling that they do not have an answer from their department, and they are direct competencies, yes, they are direct competences from their department. For example, in this comprehensive plan which you yourself were talking about, we are told on page 9 that a series of actions and a number of areas must be stepped up. Do you know what areas they are? Attention to adolescence and young people, and the promotion of actions that promote the employment of adults with mental disorders. Thus, adolescents, young people: competence of their department; job placement: competence, also of their department. He also talks about support for families, as an area to be highlighted, and in which these actions should be intensified. Families: your own department, what's your name, counselor? Department of Work, Social Affairs and Families. Therefore, you will have to answer me to these questions; it is that, I do not know, I am wishing that the second part comes, to see if there in five_minutes gives you time to explain to me everything that has not explained to me in ten. And very important, the subject we were talking about the Breath. Because there are many services that can be done: specialized home support, for example, canguros for medical visits or to perform procedures. Individualized care has to be developed, that there are Breathing services no longer only during vacation periods, but also on weekends; that they are propitious, too, and that these temporary income are encouraged when there are peaks of destabilization, as you already know that happens in these cases. Look, for example, at the subject of... what about adults? He hasn't explained it to me, either. Are there sheltered floors for people with these kinds of disorders? How many squares, how many guarded floors do we have? Youth guarantee, which is also a direct competence of your department. I asked if there was any specific plan aimed at enhancing the abilities of people who suffer or are diagnosed with this type of disorder, from the autistic spectrum; he did not answer it either. Look, do you know the question that all parents ask themselves, counsel – all parents – when they come to talk to us, the associations that you have appointed us? For they say to us, "What will become of my son when I am not? – What will become of my son? That's what worries families. And we must therefore enhance this autonomy, we must empower them to access the labour market, to consolidate this employment. I have commented: only 10_per_cent of them have access to a job throughout their life. What guarantees can these people have? How peaceful can these families be? " What will become of my son when I am not? That is the answer we want to get and we hope that now, in this second round of intervention, you will be able to explain it to us. Thank you, Counselor.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.55.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. The dot of the order of the day is: debate...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.56.0	I'm sorry, I'm missing the line...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.57.0	Oh, I'm sorry. Excuse me, Counselor, and leave the word useless, you're right. There's a word for the councilwoman.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.58.0	Thank you very much, Madam President, for letting me reply. [[The joker laughs.]] No, I..., as you started saying it was a constructive intervention, so it seemed to me that it was a waste..., but it also started saying that you had to look into the dictionary that you wanted to say "autism, so I also seemed to refuse to give thanks to those who had not spoken before, also to Congresswoman Magda Casamitjana, who has also contributed..., but above all to the entities that are working in Catalonia, that are not all of the years gone by or two years ago, nor when the Cities were born in Catalonia, but many years ago. And, therefore, I have explained to him that with some of us in particular I would say that monthly, and with others, therefore, we are always working. But don't worry, I'll answer everything. First of all, on the subject of education, which knows that it is not my department's, and therefore I will say it at once: the new decree of the inclusive system, which your group needs to know in detail because very recently the Director General, Carme Ortoll, asked and kept meeting with the parliamentary groups to explain them - he, but above all to answer all the doubts that there were - I do not remember now whether his group was or was not, in this meeting - and on education they explained it very well, and more so, a resolution approved unanimously to the Committee on Education, on support for the child and adolescents with autism. From my department in concrete terms, I can explain three important issues: the centres for child development and early care, the CDIAP, that if I knew them I would see that to which they are dedicated it is not only to attend to the needs of the children. I invite you to go to someone to talk to it, as I know you have gone to some other reception center, or CRAE, and therefore I also invite you to talk to the CDIAP professionals, who here did not go to the head, and therefore I invite you to go there, because I met with all the directors and with all the centers a while ago, because I have already told you that it is a topic that we are concerned about, and we are not concerned about today: from the first week that we are going to enter. And CDIAPs also do what they do is resolve and care for families concerned about any aspect of their children's development. Coordination is also a topic we want to improve. In fact, the syndic gave us a whole series of recommendations to be able to improve the coordination of CDIAPs with health devices, with educators and with the social, in all areas of CDIAP influence, and I can tell you that the last report of the syndic says that we have all their recommendations. Therefore, I would also like to thank him for making it clear and seeing that, beyond the point and objective 2.1 that we have in the comprehensive approach of the first childhood of the next 2017-2019, as I said, there was no other, and that all the recommendations made by the syndic to us have been accepted. But beyond that, you know, like I said, detection tasks, groups of children with ASD. We have, at these times, noranta-sis CDIAP: four are suitable, all others are agreed or with joints, councils, or public entities or with some entity of which I have mentioned it before, and some private centers, but this network allows us to be all Catalonia, very important issue, because all the people who have at this time diagnosed the AEA can have these services. There are 1,450 professionals, the same number of infants who, at this time, are diagnosed, who are attached to CDIAPs: 1,560. Therefore, here you have the concrete name of CDIAP professionals, 1,354, and the name of infants and adolescents diagnosed with ASD, 1,560. The coordination between CDIAP and CSMIJ is good, but we have things to improve, as it cannot be otherwise. So, constructively, I can already tell you that we are working on a better plan, because this contact, which is fluid and periodic, can, more than that, give good results, some coordination mechanisms that the professionals have demanded from us, but they have also demanded all of these entities with which we relate directly. Therefore, this plan will include, also, this periodic and fluid coordination of all departments, for one band, but for the other, this coordination of the same professionals. This is about CDIAP. As for the transition to adulthood, you know that, unfortunately, you have the taxes of activity and occupation of people still have difficulty, and more in these types. What I can tell you is that we are working on centres; we are working to keep the model suitable for special work centres in Catalonia. We will open our centers, especially there is one that has asked for, this very week..., that it would be good for the acquaintance, who is to Sant Cugat, Specialist, who works, precisely, only..., is a programming company with only disruptions of TEA, his title is: "Pass by the details, and he will be able to enter for the first time to be a fact..., that he has asked for it this week, and we have spoken to them in what way. Apart from the occupational places we have in different ways... If we're talking about adulthood, too...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.59.0	Counselor, he's run out of time.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.60.0	I've run out of time, so I should have needed more time. But I invite you to come to the department to talk about all the issues we have, because I think that the subject of ASD is an important issue, that needs to be raised and, as I said before, I am personally involved.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.61.0	Right now. [[Draft law on the digital and modification of the second and fourth books of the Civil Code of Catalonia (debate of totality)]] [[200-00024/11]] The agenda item is: debate on the totality of the draft law on the digital and modification of the second and fourth books of the Civil Code of Catalonia. Since there are no parliamentary groups that have expressed their willingness to submit papers on this project, we understand that it can be supported, even though the deadline for submitting papers does not end until midnight. If there is no inconvenience on the part of a parliamentary group, we will start the debate. [[Pause.]] All right, then. In accordance with Rule 114.2 of the Rules, he presented the initiative, on behalf of the Government of the Generality, Mr. Carles Mundó, Councillor of Justicia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.62.0	Thank you very much, President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. And let me begin, first of all, by thanking you that you have not presented yourself fully to this bill by the government, which shows, in my opinion, the coincidence on the part of everyone of the need to work and deepen in some questions that are certainly also new for the legislator, but for the citizenry they are present. Because it is obvious that we have, around technology, great debates, debates that have much to do with how technology improves our living conditions and facilitates certain tasks in many areas, from personal life to education. But it is also obvious that the other side of the currency of technologies are the negative effects that they can have on people, or effects that we may not be able to predict today with all its intensity. And that is why, when we have been pushing the rule that Parliament is starting to deal with today, we are talking about a question that is every time more present in our lives, in our surroundings, that is what happens to what we have in the network when we die. When we die physically we don't die digitally, and there's still not enough answers today as to give a more useful solution to the city to be able to answer questions that are present in everyday life, already, and I'm sure that in the coming generations it will be a much more present reality. What about our digital heritage? How do we manage the digital stakeout? What happens to the accounts we have opened in the network when we die or when someone has changed their ability? Or what about the photos, the archives, the documents on the web? Or whose music, books, or movies do we buy when we're dead and someone can make them their own? Or what happens, for example, with the emails we sent: from whom are they? Who can use it? It is very clear, when we send a letter in paper, therefore, that this will become part of the inheritance; the mails, the contents of the electronic mails, from whom are they? How is it managed? How does this affect the right to privacy? And, therefore, it is an area where there are certainly many more questions than answers today, but we understand that it is important that from this Parliament and from the Catalan institutions we open this debate and contribute to giving answers. And obviously we have to do it with the skills we have and feel well aware that we are in a changing context. Obviously, the conception we have today of the effects of technology is that they will not be the same as we will have in the next two years. It is also true that no one will probably be able to give us enough confidence to be sure of what these effects will be like in two years' time, but that does not mean that we are willing to try to give answers to problems we already have today. We want to give Catalonia answers from the instruments we have, not from those we would like to have. So much good we have full competitions in all the normal areas and we can make a much more global approach, but with the skills we have today, the way in which from the government we set up as an ideal to respond to these problems that previously identified them is through civil law. In other countries, for example in the French State, they are addressing this issue from the point of view of data protection legislation, trying to impose obligations on digital service providers. Unfortunately, we do not yet have this competence, and therefore we have to address this issue, which seems necessary to us, from the skills we have. And that's why we think the civil right gives us some answers so we can make this objective possible. We want to take over the people who survive us or the people who are responsible for the guardianship of a person who has changed his or her ability to manage this digital heritage more easily. The bill makes some very specific modifications in the Civil Code of Catalonia. In fact, it is limited to incorporating two articles into it and modifying only two separate articles into six different articles – very concrete ones – and adding an additional arrangement to create the Register of Digital Wills. Therefore, it is a law with a writing of scathing articles, because we understand that it is only necessary to make certain clarifications. And so – and I note this because some of you have expressed to me some discomfort because the Bureau agreed to deal with it as a matter of urgency – we believe that, because of the abst and the number of articles and aparts that are modified, that it is, as I say, scandalous – two articles that are separated into six articles – there was enough space to be able to fully debate this bill, and therefore that in this case urgency was justified, because the problem in society is already real and the number of changes that have allowed it, in a reasonable time, to be able to make a full debate. And, besides, all the spokespersons of the Justice Commission came back, on November 16th – so, four months ago – the draft law, from which all those considerations that during these four months were meant to be and were intended to be incorporated into the draft law would have been well repudiated. Therefore, we understand that what we are taking to the chamber today and what we are starting today is not new for anyone, because, like all the spokespersons of the Commission of Justice, they kept it at their bottom and, therefore, at their disposal to be able to present to us all the considerations that you consider appropriate with the year of improving the text, since November 16th. Or have they also had the opportunity, those who wanted to take advantage of it, to participate in the day of debate that in the march of the Centre d'Estudis Juridiques was made on March 17th. The initiative, as I said, is a pioneer; it is a pioneer in the State, but it is also a pioneer in the European context. Perhaps there are other initiatives that we have not been able to identify; that we are aware of, this is a question that has been raised in France in an open way, in the framework of a law for the digital republic, which contains this aspect and many others. But we believe that the Government and Parliament must pay attention to the needy and the social challenges. And, besides, we believe that an element of this natural, linked in the framework of Catalonia's civil law, also allows us to explain that Catalonia's civil law is a living instrument, it is a useful instrument for the citizen, it is an instrument that is able to give concrete answers to everyday situations of the citizen. And, therefore, we believe that it is a good tool to use civil rights to respond to these needs, which are present – they seem to be future, but they are already present – and there is no doubt that they will be daily in the future. And, therefore, it is good that, to the extent possible... And Parliament is also doing a favor when it shows that it is attentive to the needs and to the most lively and recent demands of the citizens. What does this bill propose? To a great extent, he proposes to donate solutions to what is produced when a person dies in relation to his digital heritage. What it does is to establish the possibility of designating a digital hero, which has nothing to do with the physical hero. And it allows, therefore, in the mark of a will or the other instruments provided for by civil law, to establish the digital wills to decide in what terms, once a person has died, it wants to manage its contents to the networks, its digital heritage, which can go from canceling an account to any manifestation of wills that it wants to contain. And this also applies to persons who see their abilities modified, to persons who are declared, by a court, incapable, so as to take over, and in the terms in which they are to be established, the guardian or the guardian because he can act, if that is the case, in the name of the person who has seen his abilities modified. The law, in the third term, also provides for the creation of an administered register of digital wills for those people who, for reasons of age, for reasons of absence from other assets – do not want to make a notarial will and understand that in the framework of an administered registry attached to the Department of Justice they can already establish their digital wills there in case some of the assumptions we say before are produced: death or disability. And finally it establishes an element that seems very important to me, which is the protection of minors in the internet environment for the use that is made of the networks, sometimes a naive, perhaps unconscious use. And it's obvious that in the area of the smallest of these issues is mainly resolved with the dial in the family's mark, because I'm sure that in many areas of our home on a daily basis there's a debate about what children are penetrating in the gangs. And this is a debate that, obviously, the natural mark and the suitable mark is to place it in the mark of the familiar surroundings. But this does not always give satisfaction to what is being pursued. And, therefore, what the Civil Code does, in the framework of the obligations that parents have in relation to their youngest children, is to establish not only the right, but also the specific obligation to pay attention to their youngest children in this issue. Because it is obvious that the contents that are incorporated into the web have effects for the present, but they also have effects for the future. Let's imagine, for example, when a 15-year-old, seventeen-year-old who incorporates certain contents into the network, at the end of a few years, the willingness to join the labour market. Everyone knows that companies that seek workers usually get used to giving a shot at the digital outlet we leave to the network, and therefore it is good that we continue to be aware of this circumstance. I am aware that the debate that is generated from the presentation of this law will generate this: intense legal and practical debates, because obviously it is an innovative matter. We are in a changing world in this area and, therefore, there are often more questions than answers, but that is not why we did not give up on this debate. And there's no doubt that the easiest thing would have been to keep it, this debate; it's more comfortable, sure. It's not a simple debate, it's not a white or black debate, it's a debate with lots of nuances, because around it is changing. But I am also convinced that the fact that the Catalonian Parliament has tabled this debate will not stimulate other debates: it will probably stimulate other legislative chambers to give some response to these needs and will also stimulate digital service providers to give answers from the source, from the moment when someone, for example, opens a personal account in a social network, resolves what happens when the person who opened the account has died or does not have the capacity to manage it. And, therefore, we are convinced that the initiative of the Catalonian Parliament will be an engine to facilitate the solution of these problems until it is assumed as a further part of the relationship between users and service providers. Some social networks already do, but most still have this assignment pending. Therefore, I am convinced that the contributions that you can make to it as parliamentary groups will, of course, be an element that will enrich this text. This is our will, as we have shown in all the legislative initiatives that we put into this chamber, or the initiatives that they have to do with the Department of Justice: the will to incorporate all the contributions that are needed to improve. And the fact that an innovative subject will have to make us all more flexible to understand that we have to give an answer and that this answer is not always easy, because obviously the subject is not simple to address, many times, the heterogeneity of the questions being debated. Finally, to remind them that this project which is presented today has been promoted by the Government; therefore, it has obtained the favorable report of all the legal circles of the Government, but, obviously, like all those questions that affect the civil law of Catalonia, it has been informed by the Commission of the Codification of the Civil Law of Catalonia, formed by professors in civil law, in procedural law, by notaries, by lawyers, by registers of property, by all the legal operators, who have validated this proposal of law, which, obviously, can be focused on more than one point of view, and I am sure that the debate will make these points of view present to us, a debate that will serve us better, to incorporate documents. The Catalan Academy of Jurisprudence has also spoken, and, therefore, up to this chamber have already raised questions and raised answers. And, therefore, I, before this proposal, ask them to think that among all of us we must be able to give the best response to the citizen, that we must stimulate this debate because this is probably the case because this issue is already much more agile and spontaneous for service providers in a few years' time. And I am convinced that with the contributions of all of you we can make a useful text, a legally impeccable text and a text that serves the needs of the citizens. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.63.0	Thank you very much, Counselor. As long as it's time, Mrs. Roldán, if it seems to you, we can take the break now, go down, and then he'll have the surgery, because if he doesn't get it right. If everyone agrees... [[Pause.]] So, let's suspend the Ple now, go down to make this minute of silence, and then we'll continue with Mrs. Roldán's intervention.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.64.0	Let's resume the session. Thank you all very much. Next, as there have been no submissions, we will now take the turn of interventions to fix the positioning of each group. I, in the first place, have the words of Mrs. Lorena Roldán, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.65.0	Yes, thank you, President. I see that there is not now Councilman Mundó, but well, there is comrade Jordi Orobig. Well, today the government is presenting us with a bill on digital wills. We live in the digital age, that is true: computers, tablets, smartphones are present today in virtually all homes, tools, these, which have favored the use of social networks of all kinds where to interact with other people; networks where to hang multimedia content, photos, videos; ways to share documents, sometimes with very sensitive data, such as via email; places where to find work or where to buy comfortably from your home. In short, networks that generate all kinds of files. And the question is, what about these files? What if, for example, these files concern minors, or judicially disabled persons? What about the fingerprint, that is, that trail that you leave behind in digital environments when you die? While it must be said that these are not issues that today are too much of a concern for citizens; they are, yes, but there is no popular cry as it seems to emerge from the explanatory statement. And much less, it is an issue that justifies the need to use the extraordinary urgency procedure, which, as we know, shortens deadlines by half. What it does seem is that you are taking the pleasure of this shortening deadlines and doing things like this quickly. We have seen it these days with an attempt to change Parliament's Rules of Procedure, so that we can adopt, in a day and without debate, its famous Law of Legal Transition. Or what is the same thing: to change the rules of play in the middle of the game to make a regulation to suit you so that you can do whatever you want and silence the opposition. « Express disconnection, you call it, but from all life it has been called « cheating. We're going back to the emergency today. It does not seem to us that urgency is justified, because, for example, there are already companies in the market that are dedicated precisely to providing this type of services: for example, to guard passwords or to remove this fingerprint we were talking about. Moreover, if we look at the rest of the countries, I no longer tell you about Europe, not the whole world, we will see that very few have regulated on this issue: in particular, only a few states of the United States, and last October in France, as the Councillor pointed out in his previous speech. In addition, there are several service providers that already contemplate these assumptions; that is, for example, Facebook, Google, Twitter have forms where the user is already asked what to do with their data in certain cases such as these provided by law. Therefore, that imperative need now to regulate in haste I tell you that we do not see it. Moreover, we believe that because of this urgency this bill leaves quite a lot of things out of the ordinary and so many others ignore, we no longer know whether deliberately or not. Has the Government stopped to think that many of these service providers we talk about – Facebook, Twitter, Google, etc. – operate from different countries around the world, countries with a logic that is probably very different from ours and that have not legislated on this? And you don't have to go far either: we think for example on Twitter, which is based here, Twitter Spain, SL, based in Madrid. What are we going to do? Are we going to impose laws on third parties who will not be subject to this law? We must therefore think no longer only of the usefulness of the law, but also of its efficiency and effectiveness. We cannot make it clear that this is an aspect that crosses borders, counselor, although, of course, after listening to what we hear with the Climate Change Act, which would be a state structure, something as transnational as climate change is, for now perhaps with this other law you have the same conception. I insist that it is a fact that we cannot avoid, because it also questions legal certainty. And if there is a principle to be governed by on this issue, it is precisely the principle of coordination and cooperation. Well, more issues of effectiveness and efficiency. What if, for example, the service provider is unable to carry out such digital wills? I mean, for sometimes even technological reasons, or just because you don't see it, don't you? Imagine, for example, an e-mail server based in California: Are you obliged to provide us with the content of those e-mails, of those e-mails? Not with this law, I'm telling you no. More stuff. Today, in relation to the transmission of the digital legacy mortis causa, with the existing civil law, can one no longer test goods, rights and obligations? Is it necessary to get into legislation on this issue, so I insist urgently? It's not necessary, it can be done. In these supposed mortis causes we also see some aspects that are not covered in the text, and that are also important. Practical topics: for example, today, then, everyone knows what it is more or less difficult to go to the notary to make a will. How much will it cost to do these digital wills? And speaking of money too, in case there were costs to be able to execute what these digital wills have, who will have to do it? In the case of the heir, we understand that the inheritance will be taken over. But what if it's not an assumption of death cause? What if we talk about an assumption of incapacity such as those anticipated here? Could, for example, the albacea, what is called here, ‘ marmitter, refuse to be so, for example? ' Do you refuse to execute these digital wills? Another issue that is also not clarified in this text. If this albacea is not appointed voluntarily, which is what the text provides, can it be a judge, can this albacea be appointed judicially? Well, in view of all these doubts that are attacking us, not only us, but also the professionals and experts in civil law..., the counselor said that this had been consulted with the experts. That's right, but they raise... these issues are on the table, and the experts are putting them out there. We therefore stress once again the issue of efficiency and effectiveness in regulating a matter that we believe should be one of the key elements, and not that of hanging the medal for being pioneers in an issue that still presents so many doubts. Well, in any case, we will take advantage of the fact that this draft has been presented for discussion and working together on the paper in order to clear up doubts and that we can arrive at a complete, solid final text, and above all that offers solutions and legal certainty. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.66.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Roldán. The words "Mrs. Rosa Maria Ibarra", of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.67.0	Thank you, President. If each of us were to think about the technology we had when we were young – younger than we are now, I mean, or some more than others – we would probably be thinking about television, radio, telephone – fixed, obviously – and little more. We can only give a shout to the technological devices that are now wrapping us up to tell us how our relationship with the world has changed: the technological media have changed and the forms of relationship have also changed. Social networks have appeared in our lives, the possibility to buy through the network or to consult even multimedia content, just to cite a few examples. Therefore, all these ways of relating leave us a stake in this digital world that we have chosen. And if the idea that the right is always a step back from society, with this new model of virtual society that we all folded together, the world of the right runs the risk of staying two steps back. That said, the Government brings us a bill of law for its debate in this plenary on the digital and modification of the second and fourth books of the Catalan Civil Code. This project focuses on the regulation of the digital wills from the perspective of the institutions of civil law, as previously pointed out by the councillor – to whom I take advantage to greet, which I did not do at the beginning – which they claim to take refuge, as he said, possible competitive problems. If we were to do so in the field of data protection or telecommunications legislation, or in the field of consumer users, we would be able to find these problems, such as competition. Taking the considerations that I have already pointed out to the beginning of changes in human relations or in legal negotiations because of the change in technology, it seems obvious that it is evident to celebrate the presentation of this project that it wants to regulate in relation to the digital activity a dead date its holder or has well lost the ability, or, in another order of things, to regulate the possible intervention of the parents in the digital activity of the minors. Therefore, the first one we will have to question is the need to make this regulation. Was it necessary to do it? Couldn't our current civil law include this part in the activity of people without the need to make this specific regulation? So, here are various opinions of the jurists: some believe that it would not be hot, that with the application of our rightful successor or of the regulation relative to the person and the family that would already be possible; others, in change, see a step forward, a brave bet on a land of the right in which few countries have dared to advance. And there are also those who, with the aim of contemporizing all currents, understand that the objectives to which it is intended to arrive with this law can also be reached with the current regulation, but with the project that is presented it is pedagogical about the need to arrange what is to respect the digital arrival of each, because to the head and to the state of economic transcendence, of the right of the own image and in many other aspects. We have to think that many of the people who are more active in the network are very young people who at the moment have passed them through the head, so we may go to a notary to make a will or to make a codicel or any other of the media through which it can, let's say, order the inheritance in the event of death. We therefore assume the need for this specific regulation on digital volunteers. The next question that arises from us is: what extraordinary urgency does this project have? Is there a need for the Catalan society to demand approval of this regulation? Can the rights of Catalans and Catalans be undermined if the bill of law on digital volunteers is not approved immediately? And here the answer is clear: no. As we say before, lawyers generally admit that with the current civil regulation it is also possible to give cabuda to the digital part of our heritage, of our identity. In fact, in the case of the regulation death causes, the same retroproject that can be ordered digital vows via will, code or will memories, and when it is not available through these formulas it can be done through registration in the Register of digital vows. Therefore, it can also be done by traditionally established formulas, or so, that the Catalan and Catalan rights are not unwelcome. Therefore, we assume the need for regulation, it is certain, as a measure to give a specific solution to digital arrival, but in no case can we assume the extraordinary urgency and urgency processing that presents itself. We do not believe that the urgency derives from the need of the citizenry, rather the urgency is his, counselor. It does us the effect that, with the shadow of elections hovering over this Parliament, you want to have a full of well-filled services, and if that goes to the detriment of the regulatory quality and the time needed to debate enough and to value different points of view, so, look, this remains in the second term, because the only one that matters is being able to say that the Digital Volunteer Bill has been approved. But it is that our position on processing by urgency, by extraordinary urgency – and I remember that even in their department someone had talked about doing it by one reading – is not our way: we are ahead of an important issue, with few experiences in right-compared and that we need to work very well. There are important and important issues in the project that need to be modified, and that therefore need the time to do so with guarantees. And I let him express my surprise that even some people who have worked as members of the Codification Commission on this project think that there are aspects that need to be changed, because they are legislative, not political, which is what we could finally give in this last parliamentary process. Some examples of what I'm saying: the fit between the current will regulation and the new regulation of digital wills, decompensated in their recovery from different precepts, because it regulates in a more profuse way the topic of digital wills than the will content, for example. Or the wording of Article 5, in which it speaks of digital intentions in the event of death, and it is said that in the case of not expressing their digital intentions it will be the heir to the binder, the marmitter or the administrator of the inheritance who will be able to execute certain actions. But here, of all of them, will it be? The project doesn't say. Or, for example, the incorporation into the project of concepts that for its novelty may involve litigation, and that will ultimately have to be the courts that interpret them. On the other hand, it is said that digital wills will have to be entered in a register, but it is not said what will happen if they do not register. Nor is it about the cost of managing digital volunteers, because the registry may not be cost-effective, but if the cause's will is the cancellation of its digital accounts, the service providers will charge for this, we suppose. Are you going to have to take on the executor of these expenses? What protection does the performer have of digital wills respect for contents that can be toxic or sensitive? And of the digital wills that are not dead cause, who will not assume the expenses? As you see, counselor, many fears remain open, few defined and not helpful in legal certainty. The extraordinary urgency repeats the terms in half the half. Is it worth processing this bill for extraordinary urgency at the risk of not doing it well? , at the risk of leaving open important issues that may lead to insecurity for those who will then have to effectively apply this law? Before you, counselor, make reference to four months ago that the text of this bill was sent, and that's right, but the parliamentary process is what we're doing here today. We understand that these parliamentary procedures have been interpreted very flexibly lately, but the parliamentary procedure is what we are doing here today and, therefore, what we should, for our understanding, have in place in order to be able to work concretely and in depth on this bill. We believe that this is an important issue, present and future, and it would have been worth dealing with with the ordinary terms that would have allowed us to do it in the right way. The decision of this extraordinary emergency procedure is his decision, councillor; a purely electoral decision, which has no other form. So good the contributions with the items to the articulation better the aspects of this text, that it could be a referent in our legal environment. So much good we can still make a useful text for Catalans and Catalans, and it doesn't serve so much to fill your full service, counselor, in your own choices. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.68.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Ibarra. The words of Mr Joan Coscubiela, of the Grup Parlamentari de Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.69.0	Thank you, President. Mr. Counselor, let's say, on the way in, two things: first, congratulations on taking legislative initiative, which is what is expected of a government and a councillor; then I allow a little criticism of the way in which you carry this bill, and let's take the last words of Rosa Maria Ibarra, in the sense that sometimes it seems – seems – that everything is conditioned to that compromise that you have made of the splits and the whole world turn around this history, and this deteriorates very much – very much – the task of this Parliament. But I'm going into the matter. Miri, we share the premise of the start of the bill, and it is the existence of a new, complex reality, that some call it "digital patty, other" digital heritage, is certain; a reality that does not have a specific legal treatment, you know, from this perspective, but even from this point of view we have no agreement about what we are talking about. I think it's one of the aspects of the bill that's not even mentioned: what's this about the "digital patch"? , what's this "digital heritage," isn't it? Among other things, why does your bill refer to archives, contracts with service providers, rights of legal nature with property value or not, from this point of view, huh? That's what it is. But there are other things, from the digital vantage point, that interest citizens. For example, the itineraries of our consultations in the network, our digital consumptions, our digital costumes, which are not necessarily consumed, from this point of view. And, therefore, from here, from this coincidence, for us everything is more doubtful than certain. And, therefore, I think the intervention I put in this sense is the intervention of the criticism of the doubt, which I think is his skepticism with which to lay down certain things. I will group it into four large blocks: doubts about the need, doubts about the opportunity, doubts about the abst and the perimeter of the bill and doubts about its content. On the need: does there really exist a total regulatory void, as expressed in this bill, in relation to digital intentions? Certainly there is no specific legislation, but that does not mean, you know, that there are no mechanisms at these times to make people aware of their digital intentions. I think I remember that Catalonia – someone can kill me or deny it – 80 percent of the citizens make wills, from this point of view, and in these wills it is obvious that digital wills can be explained, huh? And they don't, it's true, and that's the big argument you use. Then they say: "The law will have a pedagogical, didactic vocation and will generate habits. Home, laws can do this, but making a law just for that, look, it's tractary..., so simple, if we want to change the habits and forms of acting of the citizens, that, for example, the notaries incorporate into their usual practices, as they do in other things, make the suggestion to people who will see that they also emit their will in relation to their heritage and their digital footprint. From this perspective it is also said: "Oh, there are collectors who do not make a will, either per age or because their property situation does not advise them to do so. It's true, but let me..., a doubt that has come to me..., and they see the interventions that were made the other day at the Center of Legal Studies, you become past: it makes reference to young people in relation to this subject as if it were the great collection that could use the managed register. And I've been giving back and I have certain doubts about this question, because, look, the same..., young generations may not hold a will, huh? Not just because they have no assets, but possibly for the same reason that some of us complain that they may not care very much about the future of pensions, right? Why is it that things are so far away that it is that these things are very remote, especially in a world in which he is seen in the immediate, and I don't now refer to politics, but in general, right? , from that perspective. So would it change young people's behaviour if they had an managed register of digital volunteers? I have my doubt from this point of view. And, therefore, from this perspective, I think it is worth it that we have before us, especially at the time of balancing the issue of its regulation. Does that mean I can't legislate? No, we're not telling him that. It means that I have to do it, but with caution and without making mistakes. And here I enter the second block, the theme of opportunity. Look, we've already said, you can't do things right. You've been in an embolism with your clothes on and from now on you're all attached to it. And no – no, no – because it turns out that they are barbaric from a judicial point of view, which will change later. And yes – yes, yes – fortunately we took the idea from the head that it is possible to do it in one reading. Certainly, I take advantage of the fact that Juntes per el Si is beginning to take a little taste of devaluing the parliamentary debate; it's like, "Look, you know what? We present the law, we approve it here I catch you, here I kill you and it's already there. No, the truth is that the laws require little, like the important things of life. Fortunately, it wasn't like that, but you want it because of the emergency. Well, so, no, miri. I believe, in fact, to listen again to the very learned opinions that I listened to in the divender interventions, that this requires calm, calm and tranquillity. If we can pass it in this legislature, better, if not... look, until all of you can expand..., something much wider, because two days from now they will have absolute skills to do it all and, therefore, they can do it. Finally, from the point of view... I'm sorry it's a little ironic: don't be in such a hurry, if you can do it much better from here to nothing, it's playing – it's playing. I mean, from that perspective, so I insist. About the abst, about the abst and the law's perimeter. You see, here you present us with a law with a name that says digital vows, but to practice you know that it has three clearly defined contents: the assumptions of death success cause, by will, codicil or testamentary memories; the setting up of preventative powers, in cases of a loss of capacity of the person who binds them, and of the ability of the parents and guardians in relation to their children or pupils to intervene in the digital world of the people over whom they have custody. Well, I'm starting out... I have doubts that this one should be the abscess of this bill. I'm not referring to the success of the cause deaths, nor to the rise of power in cases of loss of ability, which I think should be within the perimeter. But on the other hand, I don't think we'd have to sweep the issue of the issues related to the treatment of peers and guardians in relation to the younger ones from this point of view. And I want to say why. Because I think this requires a comprehensive treatment, because the element of safeguarding the physical and mental health of young people... this is a real problem, huh? , especially when it affects the fears of addictions that are linked to mental salvation, but I think we need to address it together. Why do we address this risk when it affects the add-ons of the game, or of the computers or the networks, and change not in relation to other add-ons? To do so I think it would be a mistake, and therefore I suggest, already, that we separate this distance, we see it calmly, we talk to the entities – because they are about to come here some of them to talk about this problem – and we don't go too fast from this point of view. Those days we've seen the cry of some desperate seas, huh? – a dwarf who threw himself on the subway, at the Clinic; the person who assaulted homosexuals in Berga – who plant this reality, and the Parliament, taking advantage of it, cannot continue to the margin of a reality that affects every time more children and families, from this point of view. From the perspective of the content, and coming very quickly – president, excuses, I went very quickly – I think we should first modulate the intensity and depth of the regulation to avoid falling into a very invasive regulation. We are talking about the Civil Code, we are not talking about a European Union regulation, which we all know is absolutely extensive. Therefore, prudence in time to regulate, because, if not, the Civil Code at the end will look like a lengthening that will be a different thing from what we understand to be the Civil Code. The bill of law is very oriented, and it came out in the debate of past divers, to the management of the dead person's digital patty in the sense of cancellation, as if the only protection of the rights was cancellation, and, in change, we have to put a lot of emphasis, I think important, in cases where people want to preserve it. And here, for example, the rights of the users, of the citizens in relation to the service providers are not foreseen, and, therefore, I believe that it is one of the things that we need to deal with, because, of course, canceling is a relatively easy thing; guaranteeing its durability over time, that it is also a right that there is, not so much, and I would suggest that this is from this point of view. Another doubt, which I think can be solved perfectly, is to make clear – clear, clear – at the time of precedence in cases of conflict between wills, with their different varieties, and administrative digital wills, the register, eh? I think it has to be very clear from this point of view, and to look for a mechanism because there can be no contradiction, nor, moreover, conflict situations not intended for the non-simultaneous consultation of two different registers. There was an argument in the debate that seemed very suggestive to me; I think he formulated a letter from Parliament, I think I remember it was the Mercè Arderiu, in relation to a topic. The truth is that every time we do... every time we talk about administrative simplification, we create a new thing, and here we go back to creating another administrative register, when the normal thing is that we're actually reducing this reality and simplifying it from this point of view. Well, I was running out of time. What I wanted to put to you in this sense is that I count on us to try to do the best possible law, but, in this case, we ask you, that you have the ability to do so, to ask the Group of Together for Yes to revert the reading layout – in this case it is not urgent – of urgent and extraordinary processing, because important things are to be done well, they cannot be corrected and badly, because we run the risk that a good will will will end up in a bad outcome, and that I think we don't deserve it. Even if you don't deserve it, counselor, that I've begun to congratulate you, but I'd like to congratulate you at the end, not that happiness is turned into a very harsh criticism as a result... I don't want you to think that you want to pin it like a medal on the Stakhanovist square of honors in the process. But to do it, we have to do it right – you have to agree, don't you? So we're not running. Take it easy, take it easy, take it easy, that's what real things do, important things do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.70.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. The words of Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.71.0	Thank you, President. MPs, MPs... Well, today the bill that the government brings us here is, in short, regulating what is the digital heritage: regulating it by law and regular, let's just say, the right to die digitally. I think that such a classic expression that the brief moment of death can be projected into eternity is a reality, isn't it? Now we have a reality that surpasses, to say the least, physical life, which is the permanence in time between the digital background of personality, those very personal rights of people, and this is a very descriptive reality, isn't it? , of which we live now, today. How can this digital personality be managed by getting to death? It is a question that has to be asked, and that seems to me to be starting with a legislative initiative, the fact of addressing this problem. Why? Because, in the end, data says that practically every minute three people die on Facebook's digital environment – only on this platform. It is true that we have a digital virtuality that involves, therefore, that determines people who serve various plataforms, that are the great majority of citizens– not only in Catalonia, but also throughout the world–, they serve, therefore, plataforms like Facebook, like Twitter, like Instagram, LinkedIn, etc. Even digital libraries, which seemed to me that the counselor had also posed it, in relation to his exposure. And it's true that, without a specific prediction from the will, this creates a lot of problems for families. That is to say, managing all this digital personality creates problems and makes it, unfortunately, more common than thought to be, therefore, profiles that have remained in the network absolutely frozen after the death of their owners. And it's true that this, so it's necessary that it's rules somehow, isn't it? ; to regulate digital heritage and what is its management and how it can be clarified, too, digital death. It is. Now, in this debate we can't even remember that it's also so important not just the need to introduce regulation to respect, but how it is done and what contained that regulation. The comm. I don't think it's the first time I've ever referred to the fact that the concept of urgency, used to regulate a law, must be absolutely strict and exceptional. Why? We find ourselves in front of a law that is exclusively legal and very technical, with little ideological content, and that this, counselor, to regulate with emergency procedures I think is a mistake. First. I think that regular and well-doing takes time: time to make the study compared, time to evaluate and be able to determine which legal forecasts can be made effective and which, in the end, can help people. The purpose of presenting the laws that are presented today is to help the people. And I think you, Mr. Counselor, have an obsession with being prolific in legislative matters. Many laws: many merits. And that's a mistake – it's a mistake. Why? Because it's a misconception both in terms of government and legislature. And I'm saying that for a reason. Miri, only in this legislature – which is very short, for the time being – have two laws presented themselves in an emergency. First, it created records of stable pairs, in fact, and this. What happened to the first one? So the first thing that has been done is that it has generated a great deal of hope for all the citizens that we have decided that we can share the future with a couple without need or obligation to contract marriages, nor a loss of rights, and the reality is that this was approved with the will of all parliamentary groups, almost one year and a half ago – November 2015 – and they still haven't been able to open a register. This is the reality that we find when emergency procedures are used: they do the photo and then they don't do the job. You mean, you, that this draft of the law that is presented will not have the same result as this one that I explained to you? Is that gonna help the people? I think it is important that we remain serious; that it is obvious that putting a little order to the internet is good, after death, but this finds very difficult. And now I'm talking about what, the contents of this bill. And I'm not saying it, they say it's digital experts, legal and technical. First, we have a Data Protection Law that already helps enough – year 99 – precisely with the removal of these, all those contents that are in the network and that are not desired and that are not wanted. And that's, at the Spanish level, since '99. According to them, there are already companies that already offer their services, that for a monthly quota update the data and execute the latest digital nature vows. I mean, there was already a nixel of market, that it's complicating, and those people who had the will to erase their, let's say, digitally passed after death, the heretics could erase it. Thirdly, there is a need for state law and unified criteria at European level. And that's what experts say for a reality that's cross-border. How can it be obliged, with an autonomous law – with an autonomous law, I repeat – that a platform that is located in California be filled with this law? We see very clear difficulties. In summary, is this law a key? I think it's not the way it's fa. Would you like to address the relationship and who are the consequences of the digital heritage in Catalonia taking advantage of its competence? I think he's good, well, he's talked and he's studied. But, now, if there is only one regulation all over the world, which is French; if this has already brought serious application problems; we understand that this procedure and this project is a little accelerated in time. We thought we'd be able to improve the project a little bit more. But we also believe that there is certainly no lack of care, and that there are worrying application deficiencies, because these application deficiencies can also imply legal insecurity. And that's what we're worried about. And I said it one day and I repeat: from the People's Party we are completely compromised that the Catalan civil right, among its powers, can develop, can improve, can be updated, is not practically left to the apparator of time taking hold; and that social reality and reality advance very quickly, and it is true that it has to be updated. Now, I'm also telling you one thing: to use the Catalan civil right and the modifications of the books, to make in the end, therefore, that there is a photograph or a list of merits, we worry, and more with you, that you are a lawyer, as I am and as much as we are here, in the chamber. I believe that behind this project... you have an opportunity to improve it, to offer it also from yours..., from the parliamentary group that supports the government, possible improvements in the text, and to make, in the end, the opportunity a possible improvement; and not, in the end, from opportunism a problem. Let's hope it's not like that. We ask you, please, that you will be in this matter.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.72.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Then has the word "Mireia Boya", of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.73.0	Good morning, everyone. Eth Draft Law of Wills Digitate what it has to apply is rules of right Catalan successors now realized of the naive technologies. And this, dear friends, we think I'm a pioneer. He pioneered at the level of the Spanish State, and he pioneered, then, at the level of all Europa, except, as has already been said, good legislation that exists. In this way, Catalonia, a demostre, a coppe, which I have a registered company, which is concerned with the social problems that are currently present in society, and which was able to innovate, tanben, legally, legislatively, before starting to root out the causes. We have the capacity of Catalans to search for brands and legal instruments, and we are able to join as a society, and we are able to join as a people. This is what we are talking about right now in our life, and it was real virtue as important as physical reality. By the way, it was a fact that we were entering people a long time freed that it was apparent that it was connected, it was quick, it was immediate from what we could take a photograph or send an e-mail; on the one hand, because millions of people are being deleted, these millions of people who are now engaged in the provision of digital services and who control access to people's digital accounts and archives, are in a situation of superiority. They are tainted by people; we control – respect for the use of social yarns – and we impose all kinds of conditions that are for the benefit of tainted people, not people. Therefore, this is a problem: it is people in my digit who are not free, they are controlled by the errors. By the way, we're having a problem that you're missing your lot in different states than the person you're using to manage your society, aren't you? , eth management is e-mailed. And that's what's going on in normal conflicts. In other words, because these misdemeanours put themselves in debt on their own terms and conditions under the laws of the states; business practices that they must be used when they are unhinged and are still liberalized, even though they are being sold. What do you want me to do? That you want to limit your use and abuse of these things, that you are a legal regime and, an approved code holds you, so, that will be possible. Therefore, we find this extremely positive. And it's the theme of the will to digitize as much secrets as possible, it was a key question to give binding instruments before being able to manage data from corporations like Google, or like Facebook, or like Twitter, or like LinkedIn. And now we don't have a clue. They're the ones who decided for us. And why is it so complicated? Because it was precisely the management of these data of individuals constituted eth negóci that these data were not included in this information. You're in great profit, and we don't have a deal to make out of these mischiefs. Eth is associated with this amount of personal information that we don't know who you're managing or what you're using, and that's what urgent regulation is. If your person dies, it is only aurian ereus to be able to block emails, or Facebook, or Twitter, or to want a fast application, while ensuring that it was completely missing information from social yarns and company data banks. Therefore, it was the principal function of the willful digits and of equipping the heirs of this legitimized legacies to act according to the will of this disappeared person. This person didn't want to write this, we have a problem. And from the journeys there's a problem that I've caused pain. For example, I've been dying for four months and I'm still not getting barred and I'm profiled on Facebook. Why is it so difficult? I wasn't against being able to get in, as much as I could get out of my profile will be my mother who's already dead. And that's a problem. And there is a problem, tanben, which now affects the person life of families and surrounds them. Now, there's no question about Google, Facebook, Twitter, or even thousands of apps. And to say, it was she who didn't focus on big companies, because and to so many applications that they managed – in a ship's gypsum every day – that they would have to regulate, they would have to go to these small companies. In that so much at the Registry of wills digits, that we understand that I am logically addressing myself to the ladies, because they were that, in this era you type..., they were that year, every month, a heritage you type, as long as you are people of the same age. We positively appreciate that he did not care to go by notarial account at this time was entered in the August Register of wills digitaus. Now, he'll shut up and look for, if you're a regular user of today's law, that coherence would be a pre-eminence of notarial records, and that he would practice it, even if he thought of it as an eris, so that he could be an instrument for the five-year-old who works as a besonh. It's not a dream, it's not a dream, but it's a general career for all of you, since you're people who have to do this year's work... then you're willing to do some Internet services, like a complement, already, as replacements for the instruments of your right Catalan successors. In that so far as the legal regime respects the rights and duties of parents or is guardians of the children who are owed it was their activity in society, it is an instrument which, combined with adequate public education policies..., does not want to debunk that public education is important and that not everything can be solved today, except that it complements the cause itself. And this is the position of weakness which, when he is a joeni, when he is a teenager of practice..., who is not an addiction, that is, Mr. Coscubala, that we are not talking about addictions; we are talking about causes that are far too great, such as cyberassembly and cyberbullying. And it is important that you can delete accounts, pull images and pull comments that can affect both the mansions, the mansions, the joeni and the joenes, and that you can put yourself at risk was your physical or mental salvation. All of this, he's peers this year to impose on joeni, otherwise he's going to sue where you're joeni and you can take part, and so if he's going to escort them beforehand, before he takes any action. We insist that major control is meaningless if educational policies are not backed up in the field of education from now on to the Catalan public. As a guarantee of the necessary public resources, the implementation of civic awareness programmes, and training of professionals, teachers, peers, mayors, was a preventive measure of almost assimilation and risks associated with the new technologies. It is also seeking to develop self-protection programs for stronger and stronger holders of their cybersecurity capabilities. Four dice. Rebrember that one of every four almost scholastic settlement and has traumatized social yarns, ship technologies, one of every four almost –, mainly in mobile; basically applications like eth WhatsApp, instant messaging needles. Ei mes, we talk about that is 70.2 percent of the victims of cyberassembly his armies, his gojats, his hemnes joenes– eth 70.2 percent. Therefore, and this direct relationship between cyber-assetting and the rights of minors was gender-based rape, although there were some masculinists who found us social hilats. Eth masculinism has also to fight in social threads, and we find that it is she who is looking for a good opportunity then well present today. We are also celebrating the protection of the rights of people with disabilities in relation to the content of digits, and we are now respecting their dignity and your willingness to speak for themselves as a whole, a month, a month, and we insist: this is the only one that does not make sense, to be accompanied by self-awareness in the use of social threads, all the information that goes, where it comes from, and whether or not you go, whether or not you are involved in very profit. Counselor, we are celebrating the first step, pioneer, absolutely necessary, and we see that I have had the opportunity to regulate a liquid that we are going to escape, to which we now, by the way, have controlled these things.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.74.0	Thank you, Miss Boya. Next is the words of Mr Orobtig, Jordi Orobtig, of the Groupe Parlamentari Junts pel Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.75.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. Honourable Councillor Mundó, MPs, MPs, would like in this case to pay a special greeting to the Director General of Dret and Legal Entities, Mr Xavier Bernadí and Gil, who will accompany us today. Well, the first one that came to me, when I read the name of this legislative initiative, the one that we are dealing with today, is, first, therefore, that I understand that the mantra that, Plere Plere, we feel in this room of plenary. I suppose they would express them..., that they would sound – he forgave – expressions, like ara: "Get out of the hamster wheel and get to work on what the Catalans really need. "You reject reality and live a parallel reality. I think it is quite obvious that, with this initiative, this parliamentary group has the opportunity, once more, and there are many – only to remember the Law Project of the Book of the Civil Code of Catalonia, the validation of the Decree relating to the creation of the Register of Interest Groups, as well as the Movement of Tanks of the Model Center of Barcelona – to defend a government action, and more concretely in this case, of the Council of Justice, which has a full impact on the daily reality of all Catalans. That's why some of the references they've made to us – personal references and references to the counselor – understand that they're totally out of place. I believe that some of these initials that I have had the opportunity to talk about and that we have had the opportunity to defend in this faristol fully justify a legislature. And it is, therefore, that I understand that this initiative that is conducive to approval..., is conducive to the knowledge of the plenary – forgive me – because there are no items in this debate of totality, in no case wrong or pours over the ego of a person; in no case wrong in the will to promote an electoral campaign that justifies, in this case, the action of government. The second I hear this title is that it doesn't do justice to it, huh? And the name doesn't do the thing, because beyond digital memory we also talk about many other things. We are talking about the presence, in digital circles, of guardianships and minors. I believe that it is essential in any society that wants to protect the rights of these particularly important collections, therefore, that we hold or adopt the necessary measures to be able to do so without being justifiable, as it seems that it is planted from the People's Party, that we have to create an unconditional return before the large multinational corporations that have a presence in digital environments. The obligation of governments is to take measures to protect the most disadvantaged and the most vulnerable. And from this point of view, I understand that the specific regulation that is made of those collections that have seen their capacity for judicial resolution or, in this case, the youngest children, that we are all aware that they are violating – because they do so – by deceiving the norms of incorporation into social networks, that they are giving themselves high... I believe that it is mandatory, on the part of the Government, that it determines those measures that will make it possible not only to control these activities, but also, if necessary, to finally achieve the decrease in these registers. Well, I was bringing some notes to talk about this assumption, and logically, I don't think I can really please, because I think it's more logical than I'm going to take down some of the demonstrations that have been heard by some of the opposition groups. Clearly, here we are critical of the urgency, in this case, expressed supposedly for the government and endorsed for this parliamentary group in this process. Well, I would accept that argument if it were the first time we talked about this subject. As the Councillor has well explained in this case, if I don't recall correctly, it has been six months since all law enforcement officials were given, in this case, a preliminary draft, the text of the preliminary draft relating to this matter. In fact, it has been talked about repeatedly, because it is also one of the objectives, in this case, of the council, and so it made known to the different spokespersons. All the knowledge that you may have mentioned today, relating to the questions that can be generated respect for interpretation, respect the risks of this regulation, or the absence of regulation of certain asides..., listen, I regret to say, but all the knowledge that you may have came from all the transparency and diffusion that has gone through the department. Because, listen, that I know, here's a day called, in this case at the Center for Judicial Studies and Specialized Training, that the one who pretended to be a plural day, because, for which I understand – and so it was – there are not going to be people with a technical partner to the dictatorship of the Department of Justice, but that, in a reasonable and reasonable way, they have the opportunity to explain, therefore, the doubts that may be generated by these regulations. And it's logical that they have them, because we're innovative. That's another aspect that I'm honestly saying, it's a little unfortunate that, like parliamentarians, we're looking forward to innovation. Listen, if we were to be coveted, to be able to innovate. We should appreciate the opportunity to be able to participate actively in the creation of a standard that can be a reference. Listen, today we're an autonomous parliament? Listen, you know, that's why some of us are working to have full powers; because when we have full powers we can legislate in a field, maybe, much wider and in a way, maybe, huh? – perhaps – more effective, because... But do we have to set limits to our legislative creativity? I believe that this is not the object of a parliament that should be named as such. I believe that everyone will have the opportunity, as they have already had with the draft law of the book if and so we must also thank the chairman of the committee at his time..., that with the terms that we will have, sure we can participate actively, and there will be plurality, the ability to inform us, the ability to train us and, ultimately, the ability to make a decision on the day that we will finally vote on this text, right? Clearly, to say that practically we risk and innovate in an unconscious way, when, throughout this process, all the dossier that has been arrived..., in this case, from the work that has been done to the Government in order to be able to carry out this legislative initiative, has been counted on the parent of the Catalan Agency for the Protection of Data; it has counted on the parent of the Cocarmi – the Catalan Committee of Representatives of Persons with Disabilities – and through which substantial changes have been made to what was initially the text of the preliminary draft and for the benefit of those people who have seen their capacity limited judicially; that it has contacted with different digital platforms and leaders in the digital environment, such as Google, Twitter, and Facebook, probably a disparate outcome. Why? For the fact that logically, therefore, as Esperanza García..., Mrs. Esperanza García said to us: "Listen, it is we, to a multinational with its own in California, an autonomous parliament, or an autonomous norm, can impose it...? Listen, so, it's our obligation, do it. And, so, we're gonna have to use the mechanisms and legal tools that make it possible, huh? It was also counted with Dret in Xarxa, it was counted with the Coll·legi de Notaris de Catalunya; it was also incorporated pre-registrations that, in this case, came to us; it was counted with Idescat. In short, I believe that the task ahead of the end of this bill to this Parliament is... it cannot be covered by a toilet, and therefore it is our challenge. And I think that's how we get it, I insist, as we did with the Law Project of the Book, it's enriched this text with the contributions that we have to make to it. But in no case do we have to limit or restrict ourselves, and in no case do I admit, because it is unacceptable – and so we have manifested –, to say that this procedure starts in this way to coerce or to try to harm the rights of Members. That's deeply unfair, huh? It's immoral to make these demonstrations. In the same way that it is immoral to say that here it was intended to process a law of legal transitoryity in a dark or opaque way. I want to remind you that this isn't just the law... yeah, yeah, run, Mr. Santamaría, run. I would like to remind you that not only this law, but the law of the own history and the law of the Social Protection Agency were promoted by joint petition, and that it was in this case the Ciutadans Group that brought an appeal to the Constitutional Court, which determined that it could not be done by joint petition. But, therefore, from the very first moment all parliamentary groups were open to participation. Everyone could tell his own. Everyone could take part in it. Everyone can know the text of the proposal that will eventually lead to this faristol for their approval – because it will take it, because it is our compromise and so we have said publicly, huh? That's why they voted for us. Therefore, I insist, deny the Major. In case we're not doing anything that's not going to stick to everything that's provided for in the Rules of this chamber. In the same way that the allusion that has been made to the amendment of the Rules is also inadmissible. We are working scrupulously with all sides of the Rules of this legislative chamber; we are doing so in coherence, too, with many of the legislative spheres of reference that are there for you and that are so esteemed. So they don't deny us the opportunity to debate things as we do in their parliament; they don't give us the opportunity to vote and wake them up as we deserve, huh? Like democrats we understand we are, and so has the people voting for our project endorsed us. And so, in the end, today we are finally opening up, I understand, in a definitive way, an unprecedented field in the regulation of, in this case, digital wills in our field of reference, which is European. So much good – and so I understand that they are working together in the course of this legislature – we finally approve it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.76.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Orobtig. As there are no totality reviews, this initiative will continue its processing. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into multilingualism and official languages]] [[302-00123/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on multilingualism and official languages, tabled by the People's Parliamentary Group of Catalonia. To expose her, has the word María José García.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.77.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, counselor, discredit the contrary, distort your arguments even if you lack the truth, these are the last resorts of those who know you are wrong. And I am sorry, but this was the Councillor's frustrating response the other day: "I hope that today's debate will make it possible to express [[remorse of the voice]] the legitimate discrepancies...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.78.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.79.0	...with respect to the truth, to legality and also to our group. And just to clarify a few points that the counselor left more than confused – a pity she's not here today – I teach you two diagnostic assessments: Catalonia and Murcia, second of ESO, course 11-12. Different in everything, they're not comparable. And you can't believe relative levels of knowledge between communities; you're welcome. Another thing: Generalitat's data from the last four years of pre-registration shows that two thirds of children, when entering P3, understand Catalan and Spanish. There are even more children who understand Catalan without understanding Castilian than the other way around. In short, if more than 85_percent of the children attending school understand Catalan, it is not justified that Catalan should continue to be imposed solely by the survival of the language. And for social demand? According to Gesop's surveys – the last, February 17 –, a 75_per_cent of Catalans would prefer trilingual education, without excluding neither Catalan nor Castilian, and only an 8_per_cent would prefer to maintain exclusive immersion in Catalan. Finally, PISA shows that Catalonia is the autonomous Spanish community where more Spanish-speaking students feel less integrated in their school, feel more uncomfortable and change more center. That does not reflect cohesion, but rather imposition. We enter into the motion that we raise as guarantor not of languages but of rights, fundamental rights violated by the Generalitat and the department. And we start from the Catalan legislation itself, which proposes the system of linguistic conjunction without excluding any official language, and with immersion as a punctual and transitional strategy: Law on linguistic policy, Statut and LEC, which must be interpreted according to the criteria of the Constitutional Court. And as the rulings within the Constitutional Court, counsel, apply to all related laws, we did not have to challenge the articles of the LEC language because they were already challenged in the Statute. No one has ever beaten us that this is the law, and no one proposes to change it. That is why we can demand their compliance, reinforced by the courts that have repeatedly ruled in favour of these two rights: the right to be educated and, therefore, to choose a centre where Catalan and Spanish are vehicular languages; and, secondly, the right to choose the language of schooling in the first education, under article 21.2 of the Law on Linguistic Policy, and excluding individualized care by a final ruling of the Supreme. It is not about defending languages – we said it and we repeat it whenever it is necessary – but it is not about hours or percentages, it is about people, about their rights, and therefore it is about democratic freedoms. And to the group that believes that these rights do not exist, I cordially invite you to prove it, with the law in your hand, with the sentences in your hand. I have not yet seen that in this Parliament. And to the group that believes that these rights should not remain in force, I cordially invite you to present a bill to repeal them; nor have I seen it. But as long as these Catalan laws remain in force, they must be complied with. Continuing to manage the education of the back to this legality is a democratic fraud and an abuse of power, like the new pre-registration form for the 17-18 course, again without giving parents the option to school their children in their mother tongue, if it is official, and offering individualized care, prohibited by the Supreme Court. You continue to fail to comply with sentences, to do politics with education. Another idea to focus the debate: the motion does not go against immersion, it does not go against schools or teachers who apply it, it does not go against those who choose it voluntarily. What we are against is the imposition and the lack of freedom, that the Generalitat does not comply with the law, licks rights and nothing happens, because nobody is above the law. Therefore, we ask in the motion that the system be progressively transformed into a multilingual system without excluding any official language; that the Generalitat review the offer; that the centres review their linguistic projects, and that, at least – at least – in each municipality there is a primary and secondary centre where Catalan and Castilian are vehicles – it does not seem any abuse: one centre in each municipality– ; that this information be public so that parents can choose these centres. In short, transparency, compliance with the law, empowering families and ensuring that everyone has rights without having to suffer for exercising them. Thank you, Counsellor, ladies and gentlemen. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.80.0	Thank you, Mrs. Garcia. The words of Mrs. Sonia Sierra, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.81.0	Thank you, Madam President. In the first place, I want to show my support to the young Catalan Civil Society who, despite threats and attacks, fight every day to defend freedom. And remember that for so much that they threaten us and so much that the Councilman Romeva insults thousands of Catalans, we were not silenced. [[Greetings.]] Already, for what he does to today's young man, I've brought them the publicity that private schools serve to attract customers. And we have, in the first place, La Miranda, which is the center where Mr. Montilla carried his children while defending linguistic immersion for the children of others. And here you explain clearly, I've overtook it in green. [[Funnel veils]] – after I leave it, not pateixi –, the assignments they make in English; the rest are made in Catalan and Spanish. Second place, we have the classroom, the center that Mr. But chose for his children, while defending linguistic immersion for the children of others. I in suo web diu: « Students get a correct oral and written expression ability in Catalan, Spanish, English and French from three to six years old. Students are gradually introducing the learning and use of the four languages by prioritizing the mother tongue. The « mother tongue, this concept that does not exist in the boxes of the education papers, this concept that, according to the textual words of Mrs Rigau, is unthinkable in Catalonia, is what makes serve as a advertising claim the choices that the presidents of the Generality choose. And, finally, I brought... I could have brought a lot more, because it turns out that all private schools have more than one vehicle language. I didn't bring three because I only have five minutes. Princess Margaret School has a distance that is trilingual school, and says that primary and secondary do 50_per_cent in English, 25_per_cent in Castle and 25_per_cent in Catalan. All these centres have their websites in Spanish, Catalan and English, and the information they give about the assignments they make in each language or the percentage they dedicate to it. That is to say, all that the lady advises criticizes when we ask for it is what makes the elites that sort the presidents of the Generality for their children while defending linguistic immersion for the children of others. Because all these schools are private and very dear, and most Catalan students cannot access them. It is always repeated that linguistic immersion has prevented the Catalan student from dividing into two, but this shows us that it is not true, because the Catalan student is divided into two: those who can pay for an education in more than one vehicle language, and those who have no money and have to conform with the Catalan as the only vehicle language. When we study social cohesion with international parameters..., these famous studies that always say that linguistic immersion in Catalonia is fantastic, but that I still haven't seen it, and that demand every time I get carried away, and continue without carrying them. Well, these studies that really talk about social cohesion in education, what they talk about is equal opportunities and the fairness of the system. If we take these international parameters, it is obvious that linguistic immersion in Catalonia does not complete them, because there is no equity or equality of opportunity when one part of the student studies in his or her mother's language and the other part of the student does not study in his or her mother's language. There is no equal opportunity or equity when students with money can study in more than one vehicle language and those who do not have money must conform with the català as the only vehicle language. How is it that immersion is a model of success, according to you, but the people who have money and the presidents of the Generalitat trien for their children plurilingual schools? Why when I ask Ciutadans is terrible, but then is it what is served as a publicity claim for the most beloved schools in Barcelona? In this respect, we thank Congresswoman García Cuevas for the presentation of this motion which is trying to guarantee, as she has told us, the right of all Catalan students. We have proposed a pair of ideas, above all because we would like this model not to be in a school per municipality, but to all the schools in Catalonia, because, as she has told us, it is the preferred model of the majority of Catalan society; it is almost a 76_per_cent, according to the last question of Gesop, who wants this trilingual model. As is the preferred model for most Catalans, we will continue to work to achieve trilingualism at all schools and not just the most beloved in Barcelona. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.82.0	Thank you, Mrs. Sierra. The words of Mr Rafel Bruguera of the Socialist Parliamentary Group continue.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.83.0	Thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen, since the defense of the public school, I want to start by making two statements. First of all, the PSC will not contribute to the artificial creation of a linguistic conflict in Catalonia that, in our opinion, in our hearing, does not exist. And according to the statement: the linguistic immersion system has given and gives good results, and we defend it. Another thing is that if a specific case is given or some concrete cases of violation of rights by families, it is denounced and corrected. And this is the competence of the educational inspection. But of some or some concrete cases it would be totally unfair to make an extensive interpretation and a generalized extrapolation. Evaluation evidence shows that the knowledge of the castle in Catalonia is over the middle of the rest of bilingual communities, and over some monolinguals. Fortunately, Catalonia opted in its moment for a single educational network that guarantees the knowledge and full mastery of the two languages, beyond the Arabic occidental to the Aran, in finalizing the compulsory teaching. And I also want to remind you that this model, that of a single educational network, was the one that defended the PSC in 1983, and to be fair also the PSU, as a great strategy for the social cohesion of the country. And I also want to remember that, at that time, Catalonia's Democratic Convergence did not defend this model, but the double network, which was the one that implanted, for example, in the Basque Country. Fortunately, Convergence changed his mind, which was then the majority party in Catalonia, and chose the model that we defended the parties of the Catalan left. And I would also like to claim today the role that you will play in defining this integrative model of language policy, entities like Rosa Sensat and personalities like Marta Mata. The català still doesn't know how to write the 40_per_cent of the Catalan population, and the 20_per_cent shows that it doesn't know how to talk. So it's easy to agree that there's a lot going on to normalize the knowledge of the two languages. For this reason, the Socialist Parliamentary Group has criticized and continues to harshly criticize the situation of precariousness and carelessness that it suffers, which the Consortium has seen for Linguistic Normalization. When we make this criticism, the Government answers us that in the Catalan courses approximately 75,000 people are enrolled and that they are all there. And that's true, that's true. But what the government is doing is... its position is reactive, it acts according to demand, registrations. And what we say is that the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization should have a more purposeful role and a more active role. Why? Because the Consortium for Linguistic Normalization in this country is socially invisible. The course announcement does not appear in any public communication medium. We have said this on other occasions: if the Government is spent only a 10_percent of what is spent, for example, on promotion and publicity of the Grossa de Nadal, I assure you that the quantity of Catalans and Catalans who sign up for the consortium's Catalan course would be double or triple the number of seventy-five and strike a thousand people who sign up annually at these times. I'm done. We have presented, together with Juntes for the Yes and Catalonia Yes it is Pot, some reviews. If they are accepted, obviously, we will vote in favour, and if they are not accepted, we will vote against the motion submitted for the People's Parliamentary Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.84.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Bruguera. Then there's the word "Jessica Albiach", by Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it's Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.85.0	Thank you, President, and good morning to everyone again. They'll forgive me, but it's just that listening to the People's Party talk about language puts the hairs at the top. And I say that, therefore, because in Valencia we know them, we have suffered and know what they mean when they say "multilingualism" or when they say "trilingualism". [[Greetings.]] And what they mean is to do, almost, disappear their own language and use it to confront us among German nations. They mean discriminate and label you when you decide to speak your language in public. They mean that they themselves are ashamed to speak valence because they think it is a defect. And that doesn't make me up, that's what the former education counselor María José Català said. They mean that the proper language is used only to make grace without grace and is degraded exclusively to colloquial contexts. That's all they want to say. And they do so, while they make Spanish the language of the studies, the work and the institutions, while they put up a quota of assignments in English in a standardized way without taking into account neither the educational project of the center nor the needs of each place, nor just looking at whether there are sufficiently prepared teachers, and while they impose on the whole State the most segregating law, more elitist, more recentizing, and less respectful with the plurilingualism that we have, and that is the LOMCE. In short, and I feel welcome, when the People's Party talks about trilingualism or plurilingualism, what is clearly said is: "We menysten and minority Catalan and strengthen Spanish. And this is his vision. And, besides, I also want to make one thing very clear: to defend the model of linguistic immersion, to defend the català, has nothing to see neither with the procession nor with the full route of Junts for the Yes. I don't think it would be good to sweep these things. We refuse to use the language as a policy approach; in change, you can do it whenever you can. And so, because we want to put a stop to their continuing attacks on a model of cohesion and coexistence, we want to present a series of messages with the Socialist Party and with Together for Yes – I want to thank you for this joint action – because we want to defend multilingualism in truth, because we defend linguistic immersion, because we want to ask for the real derogation of the LOMCE and because we are responsible and feel that we are our language. And these ideas that we have presented, we understand them as a reminder to the whole of the motion that the People's Party has presented, because, also very clearly we will say, for us the legitimacy and credibility that the People's Party has of language is the same that you have when you say that it fights against corruption – the same –; exactly, zero. [[Greetings.]] And, so – and that's it – I think it's a good thing we're facing each other and we have to stop all those who, well, attack what for us is a real state structure, like català. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.86.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. Albiach. The words of Ms Teresa Vallverdú, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.87.0	Thank you, President. Like so many other times, with more or less adapted clothes to make us see that they are us, the song is repeated. As many other times, the language system for our schools which this country has decided with great consensus is once again in question in this Parliament. Like so many other times, the attempts of some parties to obtain political benefits go before any other issue and try to put at risk a social cohesion that is expressed and fought by many people. They don't have anything to do; I know hard. This Parliament has repeated to them once and another that with this question does not play. And the majority that repeats them is solid and consistent. Fixed: three parliamentary groups have presented them jointly, without cracks, convinced of what we want and what we need. The strength of this fact is clear: they will not get together; they will not be able to face students, families; they will not be able to break that country's defense, convinced so long ago. The tria of català as a vehicle language of teaching in Catalonia and of occidentity in the Aran is a mechanism of cohesion and coexistence in society. And you know, even though they deny it, that all students dominate the Spanish language and that they are fully competent. Without the language model of the Catalan school, students would not know the two languages equally and therefore would not have the same right or the same academic and professional opportunities. With this knowledge it is guaranteed that no one has more difficulty than another in the linguistic aspect to face their future. I don't know where you live, but I'll tell you that at my daughter's school she's the only one of her class who usually speaks in català at home and on the street. Without the Catalan being a vehicle language, with the presence around it, how would we ensure that the rest of the students dominessin? And that's no exception. In communication media, games, video games, cinema, where children and children find themselves leaving school the presence of Catalan language is much less. Is the level of knowledge on the part of many families, the media use, protection on the part of the State comparable? Can you ask me what this level difference is? And if I find that this is an exceptional case, that it is not people, they also know that the centres adapt their linguistic projects to the socio-linguistic environment where they are located, that the realities are not identical and neither are the approaches. From this Parliament we defend the system that we have agreed, that works, and we reject completely all the interferences that the minor, that attack the model of Catalan school and that pose in danger the social cohesion of our country. Because we want a cohesive society, where the students are not separated by reason of language. It is just the fact that you chose not to separate them that makes linguistic conflict with our society a fiction, a device that some of you use for good, and not a real problem. You, as much as you talk about real problems affecting the citizenry, please stop inventing conflicts, stop dealing with society causing problems where they have never been. It's not all gone, and in questions like this still less. It would seem that it should be clear to them that the Catalan society rejects their proposals, which they have no support, that Catalans speaking of various languages defend the Catalan school model. But it's quite the same: they come back, they repeat it as if it were a demand for broad agreement, and that – they should have proven it a long time ago – they don't give them either the reason or the support. We live in a multilingual society, and this is a wealth we need to value and promote because it strengthens us. And we want a strong and cohesive society, where it sings and helps to erase the differences. Those who have children at school know firsthand what the reality of schools is. And that's why it's still harder and more irresponsible to defend positions that they have as a consequence to prevent everyone from finishing school with the Catalan domain and the castle and one or more foreign languages; languages that we also believe require a wider access, but we also know that they are working hard to strengthen it. We think it is essential to increase the domain of other languages, as it is also essential to spread and maintain the language of origin of the new student, as an opportunity in an open society in the world. Gentlemen of the People's Party, stop staring at me in the language question, stop inventing scenes that aren't. We know that Ciutans will give them support, no surprise. But they really don't feel like they're doing people a bad favor when they're having fictitious conflicts, when they're asking to break a system that's proven to be working? And I just said what I said here doesn't matter for days: to teaching, multilingualism, yes, and so on, and Catalan language as a tool of cohesion and coexistence. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.88.0	Thank you, Mrs. Vallverdú. Next, to fix his position, has the word Mr Carles Riera, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.89.0	Well, thank you, President. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the CUP - Constituent Creed, as is obvious and predictable, is clearly contrary to the motion submitted for the Parliamentary Group of the People's Party. As a result, we will vote against it in its absolute totality. And, as well as sharing and celebrating, obviously, the points, therefore, that in this sense have agreed Jointly for the Yes, the Socialist Party and Catalonia Yes that is Pot, we have wanted to defend in this forum a position of own, without considerations, of categorical and absolute impugnation to the totality of the content, the form and intention and the foundation of its young man. This is a political debate of great importance, since it affects a central element in the construction and national cohesion of any people, and we do not want to be less. We want the Valencian language, in the conjunction of the Catalan Countries, to enjoy the same greeting and to receive the support and benefits of the same state policies that, for example, repose the castle in Spain or the French in France. In any case, more; never less. And the same day for what he does to the Aran. We are and are a multicultural and multilingual country, which is a value and an opportunity, as has already been said, in which we want valence to be the common language and social communication between the various linguistic communities of Catalonia and their speakers, as well as the occupancy in their territories. This is not yet the current situation. And as a result, we still have political powers of positive discrimination in favour of Valencian and Occitan languages. The castle is hegemonic and has after a state that gives it full support; therefore, it does not need positive discrimination or complementary to Catalonia. Your motion is absolutely wrong, absolutely out of focus. In these policies, the school plays a role in the language, and linguistic immersion is a minimum setting so that the valence and occency of the common and social languages among the students of the various linguistic communities of our schools. Language is a basic element of social cohesion. We will never give up on the fact that català and occità are a fundamental element of cohesion in all Catalan countries, nor will we accept Spanish-speaking and fragmentary policies of our national community. The bet for an educational model is irrefutable, because we are a people's sun and we want all citizens to have the same opportunities; hence social cohesion. Therefore, we are totally opposed to singularizing language-based centers. Moreover, in the name of educational quality, it is necessary to oppose in front of us to increase the rates of groups class by language. The problem is not in the knowledge of the castle – and much less in the use made of the young people of the Catalan Countries –, all present in the world of the oci, of the new technologies, of the communication media, of the good part of the university and of the world of work. The problem is, in change, at the roof of Catalan and Occitan languages, where social use is still stagnant today. Our problem today is not, therefore, the promotion of the castle – they are absolutely wrong, and this makes it manifest its bad faith and bad political intention in this motion – but defence and promotion, still, of valence and occupancy. This is the challenge, the real objective that we need to put ourselves in language policy – also in school –: in cultural production, in work, in the economy, in communication media, in public space; by cohesion. They do not, therefore, demagogic. You, in fact, want to expand Catalan students, to expand Catalan students, as your minister explicitly said, palm and public, and to fragment our national community by language. We oppose it and we will oppose it frontally; for equal opportunity, for cohesion and national dignity, for respect for our culture and our language. And I'll end up dedicating a few words of our esteemed Ovidi Montllor, who I don't know if they'll like to listen to, but I'm sure he'll make it easier for them, if they want, to have a very interesting reflection. He said a very strong phrase: "There are people who do not like to be spoken, written or thought of català. It's the same people who don't like it when they talk, write or think. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.90.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Riera. Next, Ms. María José García has the words to pronounce herself on the exams.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.91.0	Thank you, President. Yes, in this Parliament there are people who don't like to be thought about and talked about, but it won't be us, will it? Gentlemen of the CUP. No one has to separate students because of their usual language, this would be segregation and discrimination. But no one can violate the right of parents to school their children in a bilingual system. This is irrebatible evidence, and no one has shown it here, no one has beaten it. Therefore, if they are so concerned about the separation by language, the only solution is that the Catalan school is all bilingual, as the law says, in different proportions, depending on the area, without excluding any official language, as the laws and the Constitutional Court say – I don't say that, huh? Thus, rights are respected, the legal framework is fulfilled and pupils are not separated by language. But if the department legitimately wants some families to give them the opportunity to school their children exclusively in Catalan, with as little contact as possible with the Castilian, it is the department itself that is imposing on these parents separation by reason of language, who voluntarily accept it. We have nothing to say. Therefore, it is the immersion that implies separation, because the legal model is not the immersion, it is the conjunction. On the other hand, students are already separated by level for reinforcement classes, by language in foster classes, by beliefs for the class of religion, by pedagogical models in different centers and no one is scandalized. As was said before, it is also separated by economic possibilities and they are not scandalized either. I am going to the amendments. We have accepted the first of Citizens; the second, no. That of Junts pel Yes, PSC i Catalunya Yes, that is Pot we have not accepted them, because they are unacceptable. [[Widow's remorse.]] It is unacceptable for these groups to endorse and impose on us in the motion the exclusion of Castilian in Catalan school. It's discriminatory, it's segregation and it's illegal. It is unacceptable to support the fact that some Catalans have more rights than others, that language rights are more respectable than others. First-rate children and second-rate children in the same school are unacceptable, depending on the official language spoken at home. Look, in dictatorships there's no problem when everyone shuts up and holds on. Is that what you want us to have here, in Catalonia, that we all shut up and hold on? [[Widow's remorse.]] You keep talking to us about languages, you don't talk about people, you don't talk about rights, you don't listen. They don't give a damn about the arguments, they don't give a damn about the laws, because you're in your immobile self-absorbed with your own laws. Well, well, look, there'll be no time, but history will judge them. [[Strong remorse of the eyes.]] Thank you very much, Counsellor, President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.92.0	Thank you, Mrs. Caves. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.93.0	To ask you, President, please, if, before voting on item 1, you can read it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.94.0	Okay. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to the vote on the motion, but before we read, as requested by the People's Parliamentary Group..., we will read the first point. He'll read the second secretary.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.95.0	Thank you very much, Madam President. The lady, the point... the first point said? [[Pause.]] Yeah, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.96.0	Point number one.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.97.0	"Guarantee to all pupils in the education system the language rights contained in the legislation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.98.0	We vote, therefore, on the motion. The vote begins. The Parliament on multilingualism and official languages was rejected by 36 votes in favour, 94 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. The session is suspended until three o'clock in the afternoon.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.99.0	It's part of the session. [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into its response to the problem of housing occupancy]] [[302-0124/11]] Very late in the day, all of them. The 14th item on the agenda is: Motion following the question to the Government on its response to the problem of housing, presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.100.0	Thank you, President. Deputies, deputies, economic crisis, mortgage crisis, derived from all this: social crisis, denunciations. Many people, but families who have seen that the loss of their habitation has been a personal drama, and the sum of personal dramas has been a real social drama, a shame. And shameful has been the attitude of the banking sector, which has been an essential part of the problem and which is intended not to be a fundamental part of the solution. We have also been able to see at the length of these years that public heritage, the public housing park in front of the housing emergency, was insufficient. Without going any further, the assumptions that yesterday the majority of Parliament approved have some economic parties – let me define it from my point of view – ridiculous – let me put this adjective, "ridiculous" – in order to be able to have more habitable logger. Many people, therefore, have been driven to occupy habitats. And here he has taken care of everything: habitats of great tenors, but also habitats of private persons, administrations and entities with social habitation. Laws do not just give a satisfactory solution to problems raised in housing matters. A first attempt is the law..., well, the first attempt was the Law of the Right to Housing of the Year 2007; then, the law emanating from a popular legislative initiative, which was approved in the later plenary of the previous legislature, the Law 24/2015, and a few weeks ago this Parliament also approved another law that they want, again, to solve problems arising from housing emergence. This law was approved because the Government of the State, the Government of the People's Party, brought to the Constitutional Court a series of articles of that law. And now we find ourselves again with the insensitivity of the PP government, which threatens to bring another time before the Constitutional Court this law that still does not two months that we have approved. Again, Rajoy is protecting the interests of the banking sector, the banks. Most people who have been forced to occupy a dwelling, usually from a bank, are willing to pay for an eligible logger. The right of housing, from our point of view, must be protected by public powers; it is about fighting against inequalities. For this reason, we collected the Law on the Protection of the Right to Housing of Persons at Risk of Social Exclusion, which, among other provisions, gave us a year's margin to seek regularization solutions in residential situations of persons without an enabling title. In this sense there are most of our motions that we will then vote on, which allow the Administration to look for these mechanisms of mediation, regularization, especially on the floors handed over to the public administrations by the banks; or caries, but some have given up. And, in parallel, we have seen how people also take advantage of the situation of social crisis, the suffering of the people in not having a home in conditions. And they have also begun to proliferate organized mafias that are taking advantage of the desperation of many people: they simulate fictitious contracts and cover these people to assault empty floors; they also later to oust them, extorting their owners. And I don't want to talk to you about the deterioration that this also causes in life relationships to communities. Mirin, it's not about leaving vulnerable families helpless, but it's perfectly distinguishable a mafia occupation from another one related to a case of vulnerability; they tell us justices, they tell us jurists. And that is why we also propose a legislative change; a legislative change that cannot be produced in this chamber, but in the Congress of Deputies. A bill of law has already begun to walk in this sense. It is necessary to lay down positions, not to facilitate the life of the financial sector and the large housing estates, but to fight against those who traffic with floors, but to guarantee the right to housing, and also to guarantee the right to property, because society demands an urgent solution to this issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.101.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Terrades. Next, to defend the papers presented has the word Mr. Joan Garriga, of the Candidature of Popular Unity - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.102.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, after the presentation made by the Deputy Terrades, I agree with the presentation, but I disagree with the motion, and for me there is nothing to see. It is to say, because this motion that you present, which presents the Party of Socialists, can not disconnect it from other parts, as is the fact of the proposal presented to the Congress of the Deputies for the PDECAT, as is the unfortunate intention of the Government of the PP to bring to the Constitutional Court the recently approved Law 4/2016, as neither are, we believe, the campaigns dedicated to criminalizing the occupation that we later observe in many of the..., in some of the diaries of our country. The coincidence of these facts for us is not a coincidence; in fact, the CUP does not believe that in politics there is a coincidence. And we believe that, in addition, there are political reasons beyond the coincidence in the calendar. And, plus, because everything makes us feel that you have faces, you seem to be part of a single story. Because the coincidences that it is fan in the defense of property, in the defense of a model that has led to social and emotional ruin thousands of citizens, as you said, are not only in the proposal that today fans us, in many of the papers presented, but have manifested themselves in fact in all the legislative actions that have had to finish to deal with this topic. How is it that everything that in poenncia, that today in the same exhibition that you made, in the committee, we have managed to deal in a way..., with measure and we have agreed to define the housing reality as the complex, enormously dramatic, and now correct we want to expedite processes of dislocation on a small part of the problem of occupation? What are we talking about? The 12th? , 13_per_cent? , in front of the 87_per_cent that is in the hands of the great tenors, the great bank and the returning funds? [[Greetings.]] How can we understand, if not as a clear display of political positioning contrary to the expressed and approved intentions of this Parliament in Law 24/2015 and Law 4/2016, the coincidence of settlement between you in point 4 of the motion of the Socialist Party and the proposal of the PDECAT presented in Madrid in favor of speeding up the relocations of empty habitats? The proposal can be better dressed as a fight against the mafia, to protect the small owner, but it is certain that for us it does not include – at least we have not seen it – any measure against the mafia; it does not differentiate between the owner, small owner, and the one that can hold a hundred floors; it does not provide any measure to increase the capacity of public administrations to give solutions to the most disadvantaged people, and it does not respond to the needs raised by the joints, which are the ones who in the first line have to manage the dramatic situation arising from the housing emergency. And what we do is complicate their lives. We deny regularization, we reduce even more the instruments that we place in its abyss and we place, not in doubt, the denunciations at the gates of the house of the village. Why do we show ourselves unable to define the great tenors with the laws that we do and approve in this Parliament and, in change, show ourselves caps and willingly to legislate before the weakest? Why did we offensively defend private property over and above the right side of a decent habitation? What is the difference between the positioning of those political forces that endorse these proposals and that of a constitutional court that, in repeated submission to the bank, to the voltors, to all those that market day yes and others also the right of habitation, rises, raises its power against the weak in defense of private property? What's the difference? A private property, as I say, that before being registered as such has been usurped, stolen from the common good and, unfortunately, from the community, paid on the basis of the public record. Indeed – indeed – do we believe that the proposals of the honourable Member are aimed at defending, as someone said in committee, the pes of Aunt Antonia or, as Mrs Ciuro said, small owners who leave on holiday and when they return they find the pes occupied? Do we really have to believe that when we completely take away the responsibility of the institutions to ensure that all the totality of their small public park is in habitable condition to respond to the current housing emergency and, therefore, not remain empty and closed? Do we really have to believe this, when we engage in coercive measures against the least and are unable to place the Administration in its political obligation to expand the public park of social dialogue? Really? Actually the pea of Aunt Antonia or the little owner, huh? Do we want to incorporate into public housing, the value and social use that these people have and the obligations that come from them? Or, on the contrary, what we're doing is putting Aunt Antonia and the little owner on the speculative market? Is that what we're doing? And finally, allow me to tell you that you want to bring us what kind of game you want to play. What's the most prudence we have to have if we're not complicit in the Constitutional Court? So subtle is the parliamentary game? Can so much hypocrisy stand in this chamber? Certainly, there are those who occupy by dignity floors, the dignity that is lost when one is found on the street sleeping in cars or going to place. Others occupy from the power the most unworthy of our society. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.103.0	Thank you, Mr. Garriga. The words of Mr. Alberto Villagrasa, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.104.0	Thank you, President. Members..., the motion you, the Socialist Group, present is the typical behavior you have with the Okupa movement, isn't it? You guys do what you do is put smokescreens, put yourself aside. Thus, we can coincide that we are talking about two types of occupation: one is that in which it is occupied by social necessity, as it was said, there are people who occupy by social necessity, and others who occupy by being jets. On the basis of this it is true that there would then be the other occupation, that of jets, that of the Okupas, which is also a criminal fact. As mentioned earlier, there are occupations by Mafia groups and then the occupation of radical groups to which you are always obviating in the debate. And, therefore, the right of access to housing must be combined with the defence of private property. And to social problems what must be given are social solutions, that is, without harming the owner. Social, work, and also, why not? housing solutions of the social housing park. But we cannot legalize the occupation, because, if not, we are giving a wrong message. We are giving a message that, if you have a need, it occupies, that the Administration regularizes it, and that is not the most appropriate message that can be given from an administration. On the criminal occupation, to which you only refer, only that kind of occupation by the mafias, of course, must be fought against them. All the weight of the law; police also, if necessary. And you also have to contain the, because it's a kind of mafia that takes advantage of people's need. But with the Okupa movement his position is to make himself Swedish: neither mention it, nor see it, nor mention it in his motion. And it is a violent movement, violent in its occupations, violent in the evictions, that creates a great number of problems in the coexistence in the environment in which they are, private occupations of public space, and that even come to carry out economic activities without permits or licenses: parties, concerts, bar activities... And here nobody says anything; but this does not mention it. For example, what happened this week at Barcelona City Council with its group. They know that in the City of Barcelona the group of Colau, the Podemos de Colau, made a regulation, therefore, to give protection to the Okupas in the face of supposed illegal activities that were directed against them. If there is an illegal activity, obviously you have to fight it, there we would agree. What cannot be done is to put the police at the service of the radicals, because the question is: Who protects in Barcelona, the owners, from the okupas? Who protects them? A motion to put this regulation into effect was tabled, introduced by the People's Group, and fortunately won. What was the position of the PSC? Did you vote in favour? Did you vote against it? Abstaining? They're gone. They didn't dare sit down, vote and face. That's what you do with the Okupa movement: stand aside and do the Swedish. Obviously, in the face of social problems, the Administration must provide social solutions. Against the occupation of mafia and radicals, zero tolerance, and also to owners, advice and support by the Administration in the face of damage and assault on their property. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.105.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Villagrasa. Next is the words of Mr. Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.106.0	Thank you, President. Too late to all and so to all. Well, the reason that the PSC is proposing to us is a whole series of points. The first, in its original draft, seemed very reasonable to us, because it called for an increase in the taxation applied on empty habitats. And we thought that the measure felt, above all in the perspective of mobilizing a very important name that still does not complete its social function, that it is degraded and that ends up feeling the vector of other problems. According to the register of empty habitats, we have in Catalonia about 40,000 dwellings owned by great estates, which are found in this situation. The councillor, in the course of the inquiry, evoked the compromise of the financial entities to give up, by means of agreement with the public administration, some 3,960 dwellings, of which the Generality would already have about 2,000; a significant figure, certainly, but which tells us, at the same time, that there is a lot of scope to run. In addition, the transaction in which the first point of the motion has ended, instead of subtitling or placing on the order of the day the urgency of these pressure measures to mobilize this park of habitats dilutes it in a study at six_months view, in which it would be considered the utility or not, the interest or not to increase this taxation. Let's just say that we would have liked to vote for point 1, we would have abstained from this new draft, because it seems to us, precisely, that it is diluting there where it would be useful to put elements of urgency and mobilization. The second point underlines the urgency of having a new rule in order to effectively deploy Law 4/2016, with questions that seem relatively reasonable to us, that are fine, right? : the need to adapt housing to family characteristics, the need to assess social services, etc. So, there's a couple of asides that we think should be discussed and that we won't approve them, we won't vote for them. So, for example, we have asked for the deletion of paragraph 2.6, which refers to family units that have some of their members who are about to regularize their residence. We don't see in what sense caldrier specific development of the regulation before situations of this type. Are you trying to introduce restrictive criteria for what you do to right access to housing? In cases of irregularity of immigrants, above all situations of irregularity, the stabilization of the residential situation represents, on the contrary, a factor in the relationship between this administrative situation. These cases require, in our opinion, an adjunct social treatment, and not a special and, still less, restrictive regulatory window, for which it provides a right of citizenship such as the right to housing. Nor do we fully understand the meaning of paragraph 2.7, which refers to separated families where there are fewer pending judicial or custody decisions. It is impossible to predict all the casuistics that can be produced, and even less because of a regulation; the most appropriate, we believe, would be to refer 'the criteria of the social services and to the special care that they must have of people with greater risk of vulnerability, starting for the minors, and accordingly, managing the residential resources by the Administration. Finally, we have reached a compromise on point 2.8, which is acceptable to our parent in the measure that attempts to preserve the experience of Law 4/2016, on priority or respect for the people who follow the necessary, adequate paths, to access a "living place of social protection, and that cannot be, these rights, necessary for occupations of this type. It is no more precise than this position calls for, as it is said, the need for these family units to have an assessment of social services to take care of all the situations that can be presented. But, for all intents and purposes, we are seriously and resolutely opposed to keeping point 4. I, from this point of view – do not get angry, Mr. Terrades –, we here defend the PSOE line historical channel. At the Congress of Deputies, the PSOE voted with our political space against the admission to the petition of the law that defended the PDECAT, and that covered the support of the People's and Citizens' Group and the PNV, which proposed to enter a path of judicialization of a certain type of occupation. We think that what is precisely a social approach, we think that what is to be done is to attack the plot of the problem, that it is the banks that do not mobilise the estoc of floors that are at their disposal, that, on the contrary, before situations of mafia occupation resort to the resort of donating money to keep these floors empty and to take away the families, huh? , with which the problem persists, the chronification, and, moreover, contribute to the maintenance of these mafias. It is in this sense that we think that we need to focus and act. Therefore, we will vote clearly against point 4. We shall then ask for a separate vote on the points raised.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.107.0	Thank you, Mr. Rabell. Next is the words of Mr. Marc Solsona, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.108.0	Well, good afternoon to everyone. Thank you, President. He will advise, councillors, Members, Members, well, the motion presented to us today by the Socialist Group we understand that it is, let us say, timely in time and form, because the current situation brings us there. I don't know whether it's by chance or not, Mr. Garriga; I... for example, from the news in the media, there are also occupations and performances in the diary of my municipality, Mollerussa, and I assure you that it has nothing to do with the debate, with the thread of the debate that we are carrying here today. And, therefore, let's say that maybe the sum of problems, let's say that they are..., I think that in this case they are by chance, because we could also talk about the Llagosta, Mataró, Mollerussa..., there are no others who are passing by and who are acting here. And I think that the reality of the local world, let's just say, is a reality that we have to realise that it exists, and that is why it is the success of 4/2016, which is that it introduces for the first time, in its article 4, apart j, the definition of "employment situation without enabling title". And he says the following – he says: "The situation in which people or family units are found at risk of residential exclusion, to what does the letter refer and – which he specifies – "and which occupy, on a continuous and untitled basis, a habitat that constitutes the usual habitation. This law, the 4/2016, approved unanimously for this chamber, legally endorsed by the Council of the Advocate of Catalonia, agreed for the different municipalist entities of the country, is again updated for the threat of being suspected by the Constitutional Court, because the Government of the People's Party, therefore, wants to bring it there. This we understand is inadmissible and – I will be forgiven – seems a provocation not only for this room, but also for the people who are most vulnerable. Because, in fact, it would be hot for us not to remember the name, the title of Law 4/2016, which is the following, which is: « Law of measures to protect the right to housing of persons at risk of residential exclusion. That is why I am here placing all those parliamentary groups and political parties that allow with their complicity, with their silences, with their abstention or their support that there is a People's Party government that intends to bring the law to the Constitutional Court. We ask that it is placed on the side of reality management, that it is complex, and not on the side of legislative paranoia that compulsively comes out in every law that comes out of this Parliament. We understand that this motion presented by the Socialist Group comes out, emanating from 4/2016, and, in fact, in the fourth final provision, in its fifth section, there is a need for a regulation to be deployed within a year. With this will that it is not a year, that it is a year before, this motion is made to try to break down which lines could follow this rule. But in the themes of housing – as has been well remembered here – in this Parliament, they are accustomed to agreeing on the great themes and we must try to seek great consensus. Today in this young man we understand that there will be no consensus at the cent_per_cent possible in the points. Even though we came to a very important consensus in the law, which was..., and it went so far as to say that the occupation could never be prevented from having a habitat, because that would mean a weak favor for all those people and those social and public entities that work to get, for the usual channels, the right to habitat. That is why we understood that in order to manage the urgency and the urgency it is necessary to consider very well what we are talking about when we are talking about occupations that have this risk of exclusion, that they are fruit, let us say, the need, and not the willingness to occupy. Therefore, this was a great topic that we were able to agree on now, perhaps not yet, three months ago. However, our group will vote – that of Junts for the Yes – differentiated in point number 4. But the news is not that our group votes differentiated, the news is that this point is being promoted for the Socialist Group, which a week ago voted against the same point in the Congress of Deputies. That's what's really surprising, and it's still more surprising when this point, above, was approved, therefore, the catch in consideration was brought to an end and, therefore, it's going to be delayed and, therefore, it could already automatically lapse because it wouldn't have felt its approval. And here's the second question: maybe this point is kept because there is also a need to visualize in the local Catalan socialist world that we really need tools and instruments to be able to act in cases of emergence. That's the question we're asking and the answer, that we're automatically asking. From now on, we've presented two papers; two papers that practically all, with nuances, have been able to go accepting. Some why they refer us to Law 4/2016 and others why they refer us to different existing Catalan standards, huh? , or to actions that are fan of the Habitatage Agency. We have the certainty that the issue of occupations will be a recurring topic in the proper months. Every time we have more municipal leaders, social entities, community associations, let us say, society in general, that they pose this concern, now yes, in the form of problems. And we think we need to find the right way to protect property, to help who needs it, and to find the way to fight the mafias who, without scruples, take advantage of the vulnerability of those to whom we need to hear and give to know that they need to find the answer in the Administration and not to participate in criminal actions, sometimes without wanting to and without looking for it. That's why this young man hopes that he will help to become aware, to talk about it, and to a great extent we will support it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.109.0	Thank you, Mr. Solsona. The words of Mr. Sergio Sanz, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.110.0	Thank you, President. Thank you, Members, Members, Councillors, Councillors. Well, this motion presented to us by the PSC sets the eye on three aspects that are caused or derived from housing-related problems. The first aspect is the need to reduce the number of empty dwellings, an aspect for which the tax to which we voted in favour was proposed, because we understand that housing must fulfil a social function and that empty dwellings do not fulfil it. In favour, therefore, of analysing the effectiveness of this tax in order to be able to make the necessary determinations. If we have an instrument, what better way to improve the quality of public policies than to follow up on its instruments. The second aspect addressed by the motion concerns the regularization of occupations with no enabling title in public housing of entities or managed by the Administration. First of all, from Ciutadans we wanted to state that every familial occupation, every occupation that results from social need, is the consequence of the lack of attention and foresight of the public authorities in the area of housing for which the various governments we have had are the most responsible. And that social situation must be given a way out. I will stop at that later, but in this paragraph we wanted to say that we do not see clearly what points 2.10, 3 and 3a of the motion point out, nor do we need to differentiate or treat differently those dwellings which are the property of the Administration and those which are managed by it when they have been sold by large owners or financial institutions. The third aspect in which it focuses is the need to regulate legal mechanisms in order to be able to recover immediately occupied housing owned by individuals, social entities or public administrations. Cases of persons who have gone on vacation and returned home have been known to them; also cases of dwellings that are publicly owned, awarded and cannot be handed over for having suffered illegal occupation. We do believe that there are issues on which it is necessary to have instruments to resolve them urgently, but we do believe that these legal mechanisms to solve these problems urgently must also address other cases that are not covered here. That is why we have proposed an amendment to point 4, so that these urgent measures can be accepted by all those who believe that the occupation causes them personal, property or social harm regardless of ownership, because we believe that what needs to be addressed is the effects of the occupation and not so much ownership. And in addition, we must also look for mechanisms, although here, in the motion, only they are announced, and they have been announced in the exhibition, to fight against the mafias who do business with the housing occupations and who take advantage of the need of people who have had a bad time. In any case, the above measures are not enough to repair the crack we have with the housing issue. In Barcelona and elsewhere, the price of housing and rents is already rising, and with worrying wages and job insecurity. We cannot talk about access to housing without addressing these issues as well. For us, housing policies are tools for social cohesion and for combating inequality. That is why we advocate a model change and a public housing park for affordable rent with which to reduce social, economic and cultural stratification. Yesterday some budgets were approved, and I want to take advantage of the fact that Mrs Borràs is here to point out something she said in committee. If you have to correct me, you will correct me, but you said in the last committee that'may have allocated so many resources to politiques d'habitatage, and that is a lie, it is false, it is an attempt to deceive the citizenry and it must be pointed out. Because the reality is that currently budgeted for housing policies is not even half of what it assumed in 2009, which was more than 800_million. They will remember that in our housing motion we proposed that 1,000_million_of_euros be invested per year because we have the objectives of Law 18/2007 that are not being achieved. That is, of course, all that has been the binding element of the agreement between the CUP and Junts pel Yes to approve these budgets have been that of the illegal consultation, declared illegal by the Council of State Guarantees and the Constitutional, because that is what they care about and reconcile, the procedural strategy, interests that violate social policies and the well-being of citizens because what they do is to divert public resources that could be allocated to housing to promote separatism. And as long as you continue with that political project, what you are doing is putting aside all those citizens who suffer evictions or social needs. But then you can make big speeches, huh? Then they will say that we have a problem with usurping resources for the common good. Well, the first ones who usurp resources for the common good are all those who are, you guys, sitting here. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.111.0	Thank you, Mr. Sanz. Then, to pronounce himself on the papers, has the word Lord Jordi Terrades.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.112.0	Thank you, President. We have not accepted the proposals made by the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot or the CUP - It is because, in the background, what they are proposing to us is a letter of nature to the occupation of habitats, and we do not agree, eh? Then, in the end, I'll just explain why we don't agree. Nor did the PP present them, because they feel contrary. You're the one who's criminalizing all the occupations and in the background what you're doing is defending the interests of the big housing owners. And while I can hear the House of Commons, we believe that, as at these times there has been an overrun in the Congress of Deputies, these debates are going to take place there. And look, the position that we have maintained, Mr. Rabell, to clarify it there, is a restrictive legislative change, which we propose to affect only physical persons, entities in the third social sector and public administrations with habitats intended for social logue, huh? And that's what we're defending in this hemicicle. Because, yes, Mr. Garriga, Aunt Antonia, when the house is occupied and you have to wait two or three years to be able to fix your situation, I don't understand – I don't understand – and from this we are all conscious, and this is the case we have to try to solve. And if you don't, I'll explain to them 15 days ago, three weeks ago, they had to go into their habitation, and they couldn't do it, huh? Miri, what I share is the setting up of the Mayor of Madrid, Mrs. Manuela Carmena, huh? He said it two days ago, and I totally subscribe to it. That says the path isn't the scratch on the door, the occupancy of habitats. Listen, I agree, we can't have cities, towns of people without rights, people who solve their problems outside the law, huh? What we need to find is the mechanisms to regulate those situations without enabling title. And what we have to do – and I finish, President – is to provide more resources for the assumption of the Government of Catalonia, which, of course, you approved yesterday, where the quantity that is destined to produce habitats for social logue is ridiculous. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.113.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Call it a vote. ( Josep Lluís Franco Rabell asks to speak.) Why ask me the word, Mr. Rabell?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.114.0	For a separate vote, yes, on points 1, 2.6, 2.7 and 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.115.0	Thank you. (Sergio Sanz Jiménez asks to speak.) Mr. Sanz, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.116.0	Separate vote, president. Points 2.10, 3 and 3 bis. Thank you. [[Alberto Villagrasa Gil asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.117.0	Mr. Villagrasa.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.118.0	Yes, Madam President, to request a separate vote. On the one hand, it's going to be point 1, on another 2 and 3, and on the other 4 separately. Thank you. [[Joan Garriga Quadres asks to speak.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.119.0	Mr. Garriga.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.120.0	In order to ask for a separate vote on points 3, there are two, points 3, I don't know how to...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.121.0	It's 3 and 3 bis.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.122.0	No, and in the end there's another third, put it here, right?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.123.0	Have.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.124.0	Well...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.125.0	Three, three bis and three ters.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.126.0	Come on, so, So, separate vote from these..., of the 3, of the 3a and of the 4, please. [[Widow's remorse.]] Don't listen to me, the president. [[Rialles.]] Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.127.0	Yeah, yeah. They're already out, yeah. [[Marc Solsona and Aixalà ask to speak.]] Mr. Solsona.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.128.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 4.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.129.0	Let's see. Separate votes on points 1, 2, 2.6, 2.7, 2.10, 3, 3a and 4 were requested. That's all of them, huh? Therefore, we will take these votes and then vote on the rest of the motion. So, let's start the vote. We'll start by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point number 1_has been approved by 108 votes in favour, 11 abstentions... No, he forgave: 10 against and 9 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 118 votes to 10. We will then vote on point 2.6. The vote begins. Point 2.6_was approved by 101 votes to 8, with 18 abstentions. We will continue to vote on point 2.7. The vote begins. Point 2.7_was approved by 101 votes to 8, with 19 abstentions. We will continue to vote on point 2.10. The vote begins. 2.10_has been approved by 93 votes to 35. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 84 votes to 9, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the 3a point. The vote begins. Point 3 bis was approved by 84 votes to 9, with 35 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4 was approved by 86 votes to 35, with 7 abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The motion on its response to the problem of housing has been approved by 118 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion subsequent to the Government's inquiry into democratic justice and the authorship of the right]] [[302-0125/11]] The fifteenth point of the order of the day is: Motion subsequent to the inquiry to the Government on democratic justice and the authoritarian state of law, submitted for the Popular Unity Candidacy - Constituent Creed. To expose it, Mr. Benet Salellas has the word. [[Long break.]] Thank you for going out in silence and in a hurry. Mr. Salellas, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.130.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, explained in our question the deep politicization and loss of the partiality of the high bodies of the judiciary, the prosecution and the Constitutional Court. But yesterday we had some very interesting news that I hope the companies and companies of the bailiff of the 78th, PSC included... so I guess they also listened to her, and they'll take it into account, won't they? This is important news. I say this because then we come here to the plenary to bring motions on the LGBTBI rights, on the bus of Hazte Hear and make great proclamations – it is a shame that there is no deputy Marta Moreta – on the importance, isn't it? , to prevent discrimination between the rights of homosexual couples. And yesterday we knew precisely that we have a more motive to disobey the Constitutional Court, with more conviction still, because yesterday he appointed a president of the Constitutional Court a homophobic person; he appointed a homophobic magistrate. And it was appointed, therefore, to preside over this other body which is to govern the legislative life of this country, a person who, not only because of the demonstrations he has made in so many areas..., who demonstrates, therefore, his connection with the FAES and with, let us say, in a way, a condition which he also has to see, I suppose, with the fact that he was a magistrate already in 1975 and that, therefore, he belongs to this third of judges of the Constitutional Court who are pre-democratic judges and to which they have not been asked to explain, nor has he, in a way, required to be fit to the constitutional mark, but they have continued in his capacity, as we explained the other day, at the time of entry into the Constitution. But I think it is especially interesting to go to the official State Butllet's issue, number 286 of the year 2012, which publishes the Constitutional Court's ruling in relation to homosexual marriage, in which, at that time, a majority of the Constitutional Court endorsed the constitutionality of homosexual marriage. But there was a magistrate who made a particular vote; this magistrate is, curiously, who will now preside over the Constitutional Court; curiously a magistrate who has already signed all these sentences that every day come to invoke here the parties of the bailiff of 78 and who pretend, with these sentences, to shut us up. So, miri, this particular vote, which has sentences, say it, worthy of anthology, right? , where, for example, it comes to say that, somehow, marriage is an institution that was pre-existing to the Constitution and that, therefore, the Constitution could not alter the matrimonial institution, that effectively demonstrates to us that this lord is soft in pre-constitutional parameters, where there are things, I suppose, also the indissoluble unity of Spain, therefore, that they are absolutely untouchable and pre-constitutional to the Constitution. But there are sentences, on, for example, pommes, which makes it clear that "the union between persons of the same sex, because it is not a legally regulated institution, there is no constitutional right to such relations, because homosexual relations are not comparable to heterosexual relations between persons of different sex. Therefore, in this separation, in this discrimination that establishes of its punch and letters the same magistrate of the Constitutional Court, therefore, he will explain to us, therefore, his deep homophobic character and his deep character in favor of discrimination. And, therefore, I place the groups of the bailiff of 78 and those who defend both the institutions of the regime that come to explain and propose all these motions in defense of the LGBTI rights, because we, too, in this issue, as in the rest, will continue to disobey the Constitutional Court. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.131.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. Next, to defend the papers presented, has the word Lord Lluís Rabell, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes that is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.132.0	Thank you very much, President. Well, the motion that we're discussing, and that was finally negotiated, raises a topicality problem indisputably, and more than once we haven't talked about under different perspectives, huh? , we have addressed the issue of the judicialization of politics at the length of this legislature. These last few weeks..., and as far as we can see with the oral views and the first sentences for 9-N; a situation that is certainly unheard of, where the celebration of a citizen's consultation has resulted in a criminal case, and this should certainly blow up all the alarms. A conflict of natural politics cannot be resolved before a court of justice, and curiously the same outgoing president of the Constitutional Court, Mr. Francisco Pérez de los Cobos, recognized it, certainly late. But the problem is that the current legal order escapes a clear and explicit recognizance of a national reality that tanmates a novel deeply troubled by the feeling and consciousness of Catalan society. And the aspiration to nine shares of self-government and, of course, the ribbon of independence that a part of the Catalan society is strongly planted, intertwined with this desire for recognition seeking in the national fact moral strength and power of change. We are witnessing, therefore, and this is the problem that we see as a source of legitimacy: one of the settlements of the Transition that proclaims the Spanish nation as the only subject will rise and another that fights to emerge from an identity that does not fit satisfactory within this nation. This crack of legitimacy is holding all the seams of the current constitutional order, especially when the PP government tries to compress Catalan aspirations from a restrictive interpretation of this order and shifts the function of arbitrage from the Constitutional Court to a punitive role. On his day, the same court was reluctant to these nine functions attributed to him the express reform promoted by the Rajoy government, designed to make the high judiciary a ram against the independence process. The recent opinion of the Venice Commission points to this danger while raising other questions, such as the need to respect established legal frameworks, which would not be wise to ignore either. With all this we want to underline that, as we have said so many times, this conflict can only be resolved in a political plane, articulating solutions from the dialog and finally – finally – giving the word to the citizenry. And here comes the first objection, in the motion that is presented, because in our parenting this motion, even if transactional, tends to blur the issue. There are problems in the Spanish judiciary, in their legal culture, in their composition, in their sense of doubt. And we see it every step of the way. In social matters, which we are talking about a little bit here, the fact that the most conservative sectors of the judiciary in the Supreme Court have won, for example, is seriously eroding, through some recent judgment, such fundamental questions for a democracy as the right to freedom. And here we talk a little bit. But you don't really feel like making a rush X-ray before international institutions that probably would be perplexed and powerless before the biographies and disauthorizations that suggest the motion. The following points do not seem to be operating as formulated. It is an attempt to repudiate the government of the PP, and certainly we would not lack motius, as much as it seems to us to be more useful than a rhetorical condemnation – a rhetorical condemnation – to make a call and a demand to establish bridges of dialogue between the Government of the State and the Government of Catalonia; a dialog that, certainly and continuously at the discretion of the PP, cannot take away all the questions that the Catalan society has been putting forcefully since 2010 on the State and that, despite the stubborn protest to approach them on the part of the PP, have gained day-to-day hearing and on the part of the Spanish democratic public opinion. And in a way that looks like it's not going to go to the Constitutional Court that's disbanded from Catalonia when the government has a lot of appeals filed in front of this court and when it's going to go to this court if we want to get to Strasbourg. And some of them want to get to Strasbourg, legitimately. It would be more reasonable, sooner, to urge the Congress of Deputies to consider the Venice Commission's opinion in order to repeal a reform which, instead of strengthening the authority and recognition of the Constitution, has not made a bell·ligant actor of a conflict that must be urgently brought back to the realm of politics. It is in this sense that we have proposed two replacements, insisting on the idea that if the judicial process is a road without exit, it does not feel like the judiciary, that it needs profound reforms to be at the height of the democratic demands of a state of law, the land in which there is a national conflict. In this sense, we should not want to politicize justice. If we want to transform the legal order or replace it with another, the way, we insist, is that of the construction of social majorities for the change, that of the generation of spaces of debate and democratic decision of the citizenry to promote the necessary reforms. Finally, it will be necessary to sort between the path, meaning dubte laboriós, to reach an agreed consultation, as proposed by the National Referendum Pact, or the path of an uncertain adventure, full of gestures as slow as impotent. In this sense, we will abstain before the motion finally agreed or, better said, negotiated between Junts for the Yes and the CUP. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.133.0	Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Rabell. The words of Ms. Carmina Castellví, of the Parliamentary Group Junts per el Sí.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.134.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, good afternoon to everyone. I want to start my presentation with a reflection that does not, of course, cease to be less and less in Spanish politics every day: when the referee ceases to be independent and objective, the game ceases to be clear. Unfortunately, we are accustomed today to attitudes and resolutions of the high judiciary and the Spanish prosecutor's office that make us put reds to lawyers who still believe in the values of justice. The most paradigmatic case, and also the most difficult, because of the importance of the organ to which it affects, is the already absolutely barroera and blatant politicization of the Spanish Constitutional Court. It is not now that the vacant places of the court are a currency of change between the political groups of the PP and the PSOE, but that, every time more, political bias deserves to be taken more into account at the time of appointing the new members of the court and not its recognized competence, which is what the Constitution says. Unfortunately, Spanish politics has forgotten that the Constitutional Court must be the destiny of the best, not the most obedient, and that goes far beyond it. Do you recall the statements of Manuel Jiménez de Parga when, in 2003, he, as president of the Constitutional Court, disqualified Ibarretxe's requests by comparing them with an assumed behavior of an imagined Lehendakari of Oklahoma? When was the abst of historical rights of indeed autonomous communities questioned? Do you recall the image of the ex-vice-president of the María Teresa Fernández de la Vega Government denying the president of the Constitutional Court during the Hispanitat parade of the year 2007, when the appeal against the Statute was already under way? Do you remember the delay of three years, in 2010, in the renewal of the court as a result of a paralyzed agreement for the PP and the PSOE? It's not that these parties are not in possession of agreement, it's that they agreed to skip the renewal turn to freeze the composition of the court until this issue their feeling about the Statute of Catalonia, with the result that we all know, clearly demonstrated the declining quality of the democratic regime. In order to reverse the scandal, even the judges of the Constitutional Court now do not add to their politics. When to defend its president they decided that belonging to a political party is allowed among the magistrates of the Constitutional, it is that all is allowed. But that didn't seem enough. Now they have decided to turn the court into the executioner arm of the most anti-Catholic political race. Thus, a year ago, the General Courts approved the Organic Law 15/2015, which amends the Law of the Constitutional Court to the sole effect of having the capacity to prosecute elected officials. That is right, only independent bodies, as representatives of the Spanish Government confessed to the Venice Commission after this opinion was issued and the Spanish Government was urged to reconsider these assignments. The same Venice Commission considers, of course, that this reform does not complement the guarantees provided for a fair trial under Article 6 of the European Convention on Human Rights. One more time, let's see that he's judged and left. The sanctioning competence of the Constitutional Court to complete its own resolutions is an anomaly that is only foreseen in countries such as Albania, Armenia, Moldova and Ukraine, and is contrary to the democratic mandates given by the people. But, I insist, I can't stand anyone in the State anymore. There are no more inhibitions or democratic shame. There is no problem, therefore, that the Constitutional Court has held as chair a person militant of the PP who states, when he leaves the office, that democracy does not consist in voting on everything and when avulge. No matter what, it's still allowed if it's against Catalonia. Justices for Democracy [[Funnel veils]] has denounced a few days ago that the General Council of the Judiciary and the Supreme Court have decided not to appoint Judge Ángels Vives as President of the Provincial Court of Barcelona, making with her an ideological purge, since she is one of the thirty-three Catalan jurists in favor of the right to decide. So it's not strange that the Spanish judicial independence figure in the 84th place of 140 at the World Economic Forum, under countries like Morocco, Pakistan, Iran, Nepal, Kazakhstan... And a further reflection: if the post-Franquist State had had such a sectarian legal instrument as the current Constitutional Court in 1978, it would have declared the same Spanish Constitution of 78 null and void, much so that it had approved the Spanish in reference, since it was contrary to the fundamental laws of the kingdom, which was the order in force. Finally, I would like to express our gratitude to the group proposing motion for allowing us to trade it. And democracy, ladies and gentlemen, is neither calling nor disabling any political option; democracy is exercised every day or is lost. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.135.0	Thank you, Mrs. Castellví. Then, in order to fix his position, has the words of Mr Matías Alonso, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.136.0	Thank you very much, President. And first of all, regret the reference of Mrs. Castellví to Professor Jiménez de Parga, an eminent lawyer, a referent of the Spanish judiciary and, moreover, a català of anima who developed a good part of his career in these Catalan lands. But, well, this government's preferred partner has filed a motion that, they say, goes for democratic justice and a copyrighted state. I am aware that the Bureau has had doubts about the admissibility of the third point of this proposal. Finally, he admitted it, not to steal the debate, I suppose it must be, but we're already used to making star debates. The objective of this concrete point is nothing more than to lose, once again, in its parliament, a foundational institution of our democratic order. Together for the Yes and his government will be content with the proposal that will be put to the vote; plus, we know that they have agreed, and will support him with the enthusiasm that we are accustomed to when it comes to precisely violating this, the democratic order. The trinitarian bloc that gives the majority to the Government considers that any law of our democratic order – follows the Constitution, the Statute of Autonomy, any organic law, a simple law, a royal decree, a decree – if it does not fill with mills, if it does not serve the cause of separatism, it is nothing more than an unjust law. It is not the only reason to systematically delegitimize laws that conform to our democratic state of law, but today, in Catalonia, it is not the main one, which is in the mouth of all the professionals of the process, of all the populists who explain harsh dinners at the conjunction of the citizens of Catalonia. Mirin, it's all better, even the quality of the governance of our autonomy, or the governance of any autonomy, and, if not, of the same Government of Spain. And our obligation as democrats and public servants to serve the city council of Catalonia is to work hard to achieve this desirable better democratic quality at the service of all. And our state of law, our democratic order, the rule of law, is perfectable and has the tools to improve it, without giving people the power to adulterate the essential principles of the democracies around us: representation, division of powers and pluralism. In this Parliament there are two groups, at least, that manifest their populism calling in a way recourse to the democratic mandate – that have rejected the people, understand. Mirin, the members of Convergence and Esquerra, integrated into this parliamentary group which is campaigning in favour of the "yes, in the "neverendum, since the last elections. In Catalonia, on 27 September 2015 there were more than 4 million democratic mandates, citizens' votes that gave their confidence, that they wanted to be represented for the various legally constituted applications that we were going to present to them; almost 75 per cent of the electoral census in Catalonia. All Members do not have one, but many democratic mandates, issued by Catalans who want to be represented in this Parliament and who must comply with democratic rules of play, compliance with the Statute of Independence of Catalonia and the Constitution. Therefore, legitimate representation, yes; usurpation of the democratic mandate that is unique and uniform, nothing at all. Because he's neither legitimate nor democratic. This attempt to stand in the only option that responds to the will of the people tends to totalitarianism. So, no, thank you. Today they will again charge against the essential institutions of our democratic order and will want to go to explain hard-hitting dinners. They know what the result is, they just saw it with the Venice Commission's opinion: the judgments of the constitutional courts have a definite and binding character and must be respected for all organs and public individuals. This is a corollary of the supremacy of the Constitution – Venice Commission, Council of Europe –, this is an absolute truth in a true democracy. Out of this reality, populism, trends in totality and lack of democracy. You, lords of the permanent campaign in favour of 'yes' in your 'neverness' for independence, are admonishing against the essential principles of any democracy around us. You're out of the game permanently, and the line has the flag up. I saw him crying and you know it. This is over, and it's all going to be in horror; a weakness that's been won at the wrists, but that, as always, we'll pay among all of us. Gentlemen of the Government, Councillor of Justice, aim to fold quickly and stop making the ridiculous, please, retreat from the world. Certainly, we will vote no; no, thank you. Because we don't just have a lot of democratic mandates, just because we have the real democracy, the rule of law, so much here and here to defend it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.137.0	Thank you, Mr. Alonso. Mr Ferran Pedret, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, then has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.138.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, Members and Members, we have just attended an exercise of the most original, which will surely appear in the manuals of seduction and parliamentary debate, consisting in asking the company of the bailiff of 78 who therefore vote for the motion presented by the UPC after an exercise of, let us say, denigration of the political positions of the Socialist Parliamentary Group, which results in a little contradiction with the request for support in the exercise of the vote in this motion. It is not that we are not agitated; the deputy Salellas seems to have a fixation with the Party of Socialists of Catalonia. But I let him say that the law to which he referred, against which the magistrate had pronounced himself, at that time, of the Constitutional Court and now president, is a law driven by a socialist government, huh? , and that the compromise of the Socialists and Socialists of Catalonia and the Spanish Junta against the LGTBifóbia is absolutely clear and meridian with the support absolutely to all the norms that have emerged on this issue. And you, then, intend to co-participate us, for some transfer mechanism that we have not just heard, in the positions that a magistrate of the Constitutional Court, now president, with which we do not fully share. Therefore, listen, you will see by whom transfer mechanisms do things, but do not endorse us in our other positions that are not ours in absolute. In the second term, the motion was followed by an inquiry to the government and also curiously, after that, he does not ask the government to do anything, eh? After the transaction, he does not ask the government to do anything. The Greuges Union is asked in concrete terms to prepare it in the maximum of twenty days of a report on a rather complex subject. Twenty days, perhaps, will be few; but there is no problem because, as I already anticipate what the conclusion has to be, so there is no problem because there is not enough copy of the first point of the motion. And if it hasn't been quite clear with the first point of the motion which is the result of coming out of this report, the third point of the motion is already directly aware of what it is intended to say the report that is in charge of the first point. In the second point is a finding that the Spanish Government, the joint government of the Spanish Government, politically uses the judiciary in the democratic conflict against Catalonia. And here we see a curious exercise also of identification of the own position with the country's conjunction; an identification to which we were most accustomed the space that now occupies partially Jointly for the Yes, the space of political Pujolism, which made an identification between the party and the total and absolute country, and sometimes a confusion between the interests of the party and the government's action that also brings us to some interesting questions about the democratic quality in the Catalan claus. And lastly, it is demanded that the contents of this motion be transferred to the Constitutional Court, and that the Constitutional Court take into account that from then on, therefore, it cannot rule, because it is obviously a politicized and delegitimized court, on this issue. The curiosity in this quarter point is that, as the same Member of Parliament Salellas recalled in his inquiry – which I read, let's say, the transcript to assure me – the UPC had already ruled that it did not recognise any legitimacy in this court. Maybe it's over, then, a quarter point; I can't repeat it in court to what you've already told him about good weather. Look, there's a serious problem with the issue of the democratic retreat to Spain and abroad. Liberal democracies – certainly, incomplete democracies from a socialist and, even, social-democratic perspective – are besieged, of a band, for the domain of neoliberal policies that empty the socially emancipating content that, as Léon Gambetta said, is what characterizes more essentially a democracy, the fact of creating equals, and not of recognizing them, and of another band, held for the identity relegation that frowns and forgets solidarity. Here we could also talk about the structural problem of the democracies of globalised economies like ours, with Rodrik's trilem, but it would be long. In any case, it respects the questions related to the General Council of the Judiciary, with the Constitutional Court, with the forms of designation, which are the profound transformations of the mechanisms through which the three powers of the State interrelate. But there must be – there must be – some mechanisms for which the legislature intervenes at some point in the judiciary, vice versa, and the execution, etc., and you know it well. The Socialist Group has denounced the massive purge of prosecutors and has said that there is a general suspicion in the actions of the Attorney General. The Socialist Group has also denounced, and asked to investigate in depth, the political police of Fernández Díaz, demanded from the Interior that the National Police Coso de Policia be clean of the elements and structures that made its existence possible, strongly criticized the performance of De Alfonso and voted here the removal of his office and of Minister Fernández Díaz for the way in which they intend to address the Catalan issue, opposed the reform of the Constitutional Court. But none of this will make us endorse a legitimate game strategy in which you claim that Spain is not a democracy, that Spain is not legitimized to talk about democracy and that, therefore, it is absolutely necessary to ignore everything that comes from the head of the state council. They will not find us in a legitimate strategy, and I would like to point out that the solution respects these questions to the intervention that many of our spokespersons have made and to the intervention made by a Member of Parliament Lluís Rabell. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.139.0	Thank you, Mr. Pedret. The words of Mr. Juan Milián, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.140.0	Thank you, President. Councillor, deputies, deputies, deputies of the CUP, prophets of the promised land, today propose to us a collective epiphany, a worldwide epiphany. Today the CUP brings us a young man who is much more than a young man: it is a heavenly revelation. They urge the Generality to open the eyes of the citizens of the sentient world well, so that they see what no one sees, outside of Catalan separatism: that Spain is a dictatorship. This is one of the favorite failures of the process, which says that Spain is not a democracy. It's really a bit more of a processist farce, it's pure and hard marmotism. And we say no, no, thank you. The trial is already dead, because it could have turned so much on itself. Don't bother anymore. The groups that didn't process, the ones that are on this side of the hemisphere, we want to work, and we want to work for all Catalans; so please don't bother anymore. Honestly, it seems to me that this visit of Espanya forms part of an endogenous, self-deferential subculture, which needs to create enemies to feel important, but which ignores the reality, because this does not fit its harms. Perhaps you are better off believing that Spain is a dictatorship and that you are fighting against a dictatorship; perhaps this is what fills up its bottle of moral superiority, a very inflated cylinder, but perhaps they are just overacting, because they have to store many things. They overact to keep those who have ruled Catalonia in power for more than three decades, those who have decisively influenced what Spain is today, but also those who, as we see these days, have built a mafia network – and the clues are very clear – that considered that commissions of the 3_per_cent of all public work were little and little. They may also overreact because they want to put together a reality, and it's that the UPC supports assumptions that two years ago would have been unacceptable for neoliberals, rescues, antisocials, "austericides and I don't know how many more invented concepts for the extreme left. A few weeks ago the CUP brought us a young man to create higher loads in the field of external action, these loads that cover more than a minister but nobody knows what they're doing. And they did it – they did it – they multiplied the assumption of the false foreign minister. And they've done it at the expense of leaving it to zero – to zero – the game to break schools; very, very badly, very little social. The coming week will be completed by those false plebiscites and the CUP will not have proclaimed independence, but this... yes, the CUP will have passed from the jacket to the armchair with an unusual speed. You attack, in this young man, justice, attack justice because you want to save the face of your political peers. They will do everything in their power to avoid justice; even if they claim to legitimize a conflict that speaks of a bloody response or of hysteria that gives rise to terror. Mirin, yesterday a member of the CUP herself, in a very short one-minute speech against the readers of this chamber, expressed perfectly who is the ideology of the CUP and who is his conception of the State, in a minute. He spoke as if all the Catalan people had a single will and she was the interpreter. He showed that he understands politics to Carl Schmitt, like a fight between friends and enemies. In this case, he identified the enemies of the people – and he did so with names and surnames – public workers from this house. All the institutions that intervened between the supposed will of the people and their leadership: the Constitutional Court, the Council of Guarantees..., but also the representative democracy, embodied in this Parliament of Catalonia. It was believed, this Member, over the laws that the rest of the citizens have to complete, but not the political aristocracy of the CUP. All this was said by a member of a party who opens the doors of Parliament to a prison sentence for belonging to the armed gang and locks them to the Venetian pensioners in Catalonia. All of this has been said by one who believes that everyone who doesn't think how she is is authoritarian, phalangist or phalangist. Mirin, Winston Churchill said brilliant things, they were brilliant even all those things he never said, but that they were attributed to him. One of them was that the future bexists would call themselves "anti-bexists." And the future of that phrase has arrived and is in this Parliament of Catalonia. [[Greetings.]] Before they go accusing everyone of being an author, perhaps the members of the CUP should pose in front of a miracle. Finally, I have bad news for you: Spain is a state of law – it is not Venice, in this case – and the violence will be pursued, just as corruption is pursued; they will not store one thing with the other. There will be no conflict here, here will be justice. And you, cuparians, have the same legitimacy to give lessons of democracy as your political peers, who gave ethics when Banca Catalana. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.141.0	Thank you, Mr. Milián. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Benet Salellas.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.142.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, I know it's hard that we've diverted a little from the subject, and my answer, therefore, will have to be in the same sense. I explained my obsession with the PSC yesterday. What happens, when I explain it, I don't know if the members of the parliamentary group were listening to me; and there I am. In any case, all the questions that Congressman Pedret has asked, I think he has answered them himself in his answer, which I share, all the arguments he has put about the table, when he explained what is the concept of democracy in which we have traditionally moved socialism and social democracy. And precisely from this perspective is from where we read that Spain is not a democracy. And I think that in this sense the analysis is probably shared, with the only difference that the Party of Socialists, therefore, sees and continues to participate-there, and we, more than just to find out, what we do..., try to take a step forward to propose a way to change this situation; perhaps wrongly, but it is what we have found. In any case, all the considerations he has put forward, in the process we could have discussed them and incorporated them. But unfortunately, that wasn't like that. And then two questions about the constant reference to totalitarianism that has been made, and authoritarianism. We have read a lot Hannah Arendt, who I think is one of the most legitimate people or one of the most legitimate authors of contemporary history to talk about who are the origins and causes of totalitarianism. And I think it's important to value your findings in matters of obedience and disobedience to the law. We talk a lot about it, so, Hannah Arendt, with regard to totalitarianism. And finally, about who our political peers are or aren't, it's that I think it's about the patheticity of saying that the political peers of the CUP are responsible for Banca Catalana. [[Widow's remorse.]] That is to say, it is not to have any idea who the political partners of the CUP are, who are the political formations with which the People's Unity Candidate has been built since the 1970s, since the 1980s, that always – always, always – we have been precisely on the other side of where the leaders of Banca Catalana were. And I'll give you an explanation why the Catalan bankers were absolved. Do you know why? Precisely for each and every one of the reasons that we denounced in our inquiry: because the judiciary in this country has been nothing more than to serve the maintenance of the interests of the oligarchy representing the Catalan Bank and you. And we're exactly against it. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.143.0	Thank you, Mr. Salellas. We're calling it a vote. [[Long break.]] We will proceed to vote on the motion on democratic justice and the authoritarian state of law. The vote begins. The motion on democratic justice and the authoritarian state of law was adopted by 71 votes in favour, 51 against and 9 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into democratic regeneration]] [[302-0126/11]] The next item is the following motion for a resolution to the Government on democratic regeneration presented by the Ciutadans Parliamentary Group. To expose it has the word José María Espejo-Saavedra. [[Widow's remorse.]] And ask them, you know, as always, that they are in a hurry and silent, please, because we can continue with the session. [[Pause.]] Mr. Mirror, whenever you want.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.144.0	Yes, thank you, President. Ladies and gentlemen deputies, councillor Romeva, conseller Bassa..., again today, although some do not like it, although I suppose that the councillor in charge of the matter does not like it either, speaks of democratic regeneration, speaks of corruption, not of sport governance, not of associationism, not of volunteering, which is very good, but no, today speaks of corruption – of corruption. And it's time to talk because from the government, from Mr Romeva's department – I told you in the interpellation – nothing has been done or done about the fight against corruption. I told him when I questioned him. And I asked, to the councillor, and in fifteen_minutes he could not tell me a single measure that he has put in place specifically to fight corruption. Finally, we talked about sport, we talked about associations, which, I insist, seems good, but I think it is obvious that when people talk about democratic regeneration they are not referring precisely to volunteering or the governance of sport. I said that it seemed good to me but that I did not understand it, or that I understood it, rather – that I understood it – because it is complicated to fight against corruption when it appears every day exalting Mr. Mas, who is the president of the Convergence of 3_per_cent, of the Convergence that according to more and more testimonies received bites in exchange for public contracts awards, the Convergence of the embargoed seats, the Convergence that sits on the bench of the accused for benefiting from corruption. It's complicated; it's complicated, and I understand that it's not done. But you can. And since the Councillor does not do it – as the Councillor does not do it – we bring this motion here today, to force the Government, to force the Councillor. Just as he is forced to be transparent, and in the end, even if he is evil and reluctant, he ends up fulfilling the same corruption: if Parliament forces him, he may end up fulfilling it. And this is what the motions are for, so that Parliament urges the government to comply with what it often does not want to comply with, as in this case. Finally, it is possible, even if it is in the Convergence Government, even if it bothers the President, even if it bothers Mrs Munté, it is possible to fight corruption from the Government. And in the different points of the motion we ask this: that from the competent department less travel be made, not to surround themselves with phalangists, but to gather and ask for help from xenophobics and ultra-rightists, and more measures to tackle corruption, which according to the surveys is one of the main problems: concrete measures – concrete measures. They know that Citizens have submitted a proposal for a law on the protection of complainants, but before that law comes into force or that Junts pel Si refuses to vote, we ask the Parliament to oblige the Government to put in place measures in this regard, measures that also cover cooperation between the various administrative agents of the Generalitat and the State Administration. And in the latter case it seems that we will even be able to reach an agreement so that some measure in this direction, at least some, will come forward. Measures also more than necessary such as the separation of political positions charged with political corruption, which we have demanded in all the investment agreements signed with both the People's Party and the Socialist Party. The elimination of political outbursts. If we all agree, or at least the majority of this Parliament as it seems, then let us change the rules in this respect. And I understand that this will be approved, so it should not be a problem. Another specific measure: adaptation of codes of conduct of the Generalitat to detect unjustified differences in assets. Something that is important not only to detect cases of corruption, but also to prevent them from occurring. The more difficulties we put those who want to steal money from all citizens, the less corruption there will be and the less public resources will be needed to fight it. And, of course, and this is a point of this motion, we could not stop talking in a motion that talks about corruption also about transparency, and when the government is urged to have a transparency department. Much of the awards that are received about transparency can be presumed, but transparency is not awards, it's facts – it's facts. And the Department of Transparency has believed that it is not transparent, that they have to come from outside to force it, that it is not proactive. And that is not said by any association, says the body guaranteeing the right to access information, which declared the right of Members of this Parliament to be protected in the face of the action of that department. And that is why we are asking... in fact, we are asking this Parliament to demand that the Department of Transparency be truly transparent, and more so when it comes to the rights of Members of the opposition. The fight against corruption and in favour of transparency begins by applying the story to oneself. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.145.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. In order to defend the papers presented, Ms. Esperanza García, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia, has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.146.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members..., well, we have tabled a very clear amendment to this motion, among other things because we believe it is important that when you present a motion it is consistent even with what your own party defends on all sites in Spain. I do not think that it is citizens now who, having accused many parties of defending one thing in one place and another in another, that is to say, having the « air bridge effect, was said at the time, it is now the « AVE effect, since it changes the discourse according to whether in the Congress of Deputies or in this legislative chamber. This particular amendment consisted, precisely, in applying what Citizens stand for in the Congress of Deputies, which is that those persons or political positions who find themselves in court proceedings arising from an accusation for corruption and who are finally to be opened oral trial have to resign, but not before; not before for so many questions: for the presumption of innocence, because often an accusation responds to indications but not to conclusive evidence that allows to be brought to trial. And precisely those of us who believe in the rule of law consider that essential, don't we? Because then the restitution of the good name and honor of a person who engages in politics like any other activity is very difficult to restore after having starred in the media news day by day. And it is precisely that amendment that we have tabled. We do not know whether Citizens are going here in this Catalan Parliament to be against the very proposal and bill that was passed in the Congress of Deputies at their own request. We are waiting for them to tell us what, but I suppose they will accept that amendment in consistency. That being said, and entering into the rest of the motion, we understand that on the issue of corruption it is obvious that we cannot make vague speeches, promise that corruption is an absolutely intractable fact as soon as it is regulated and overruled more about the same, because, in the end, it is a matter that affects a great deal of human condition and it is true that legislation is an impediment, but that is just an impediment. We are prepared by the People's Party to improve this regulation on corruption, when we have also made transparency laws throughout this legislature, we have amended the Criminal Code, we have set up an asset recovery office for cases where corruption crimes are committed and trials are being conducted to try to recover that public money that has been taken away from the Spaniards in connection with that corruption, and therefore, indeed, as we have done in this legislature, we are committed to improving all the legislation that has to do with corruption. In addition, we have signed an agreement in which, of course, we are committed, indeed, to urging this improvement and to relying on the consensus of the rest of Parliament's forces to achieve this end, which in the end comes to be "legislatively difficult for those who, during the exercise of the noble task of politics, take advantage of this circumstance to enrich themselves either personally or their relatives. That said, and with regard to the motion tabled, it is true that some points we are going to vote for, but we did want to reflect: both point 1, point 2 – point 3 is the amended one – and point 4 and point 5 require something more than a declaration of will, not only in this Parliament, but also in the Congress of Deputies. It requires the commitment of other political forces. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yes, Mr Fernando de Páramo, the commitment of other political forces. Why? Because major legislative changes are required. And in this we have no kind of remix in saying that, okay, we can move on. The amendment of the LOREG, the Criminal Code, the Law on the exercise of the high office of the State Administration, the amendment of the General Tax Law, the amendment of the Law on Criminal Procedure, the improvement of the Law on Transparency, the regulation of exactly the bases of local regime... Finally, a commitment is required that reaches something more than a mere party that proposes it, which I think is stupendously, and another that takes the glove and says « in agreement, but it requires consensus and modifications, which also affect the Constitution. With this, with regard to this motion tabled, our party will certainly give support to certain points, but others will not be able to give support, and let us hope that in terms and in replies on acceptance or not of amendments we will be clarified whether Citizens are willing to assume in this motion what they defend in the Congress of Deputies.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.147.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. García. Next is the words of Mr Gerard Gómez del Moral, of the Grup Parlamentari Junts per el Si.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.148.0	Okay. Thank you, President. MPs, MPs, we're in front of a new Ciutadans young lady, which is true that maybe it's that I know, maybe, a little bit of a gag, isn't it? , which is just to say, but it's true, because, clearly, every..., we make a Youth Guarantee motion the week after we deal with the issue in the Youth Policy Committee; we talk about young people the week after we just solved it in that committee; and today we have a motion on democratic regeneration the week after we approve a document of 76 pages, with more than 250 measures, approved, therefore, for most groups, more than 260 proposals with a high degree of unanimity, where all groups worked for more than a year to agree 260 measures. And you, therefore, present us with six measurements... well, then, I guess to take the picture, to make the pim-pum-pum political that they like so much, don't you? , that so much they love, as we have already seen, diguessim, in the initial speech. Because, of course, you and Mr. Mirror say, "No, because you don't like to talk about corruption or transparency. No, look, it's that you're wrong: we love talking about how we avoid corruption, how we improve our democracy and all the proposals we implement to have a quality democratic system, how we want and how we're driving. Maybe it's you who's concocted. Because here you present many proposals in the matter of corruption, and we celebrate it. And do you know why you're presenting it here? Because there is a majority of Parliamentarians who approve the vast majority of their proposals. Because you can agree with Junts for the Yes, because Junts for the Yes have the commitment to work to avoid corruption; but, in change, you are supporting the People's Party Government and the Congress of Deputies, where there are most of the competitions of the proposals that you put forward, do not plant re – do not plant anything else – and you are holding the People's Party Government, which is the most corrupt government ever made to the history of the Spanish State. [[Greetings.]] So don't come here, please, to give lessons. Because you're there on either the left or the right, aren't you? , of the center and such, liberal, all very modern – all very modern, all very modern – and I suppose it must be this, neither left nor right, because they have no problem with pacting with the lefts of the ERE, of Andalusia ; because they have no problem with pacting with the rights of the Punica case, in Madrid ; because they have no problem with holding the Government of Murcia, which is going through court, and why this, this, no? , the Bárcenas case and so on, is to which you give support from their escons, from their thirty-years of escons that they hold at the Congress of Deputies. And that's, maybe, what's wrong with you guys. And that's why you celebrate and bring here motions, because here, in the Parliament of Catalonia, motions are approved, and in the Spanish Congress, where you are so influential, do not approve. They don't know why they're giving support to a government that's done what it's done and will continue to do what it's going to do. Therefore, we are enchanted – enchanted – to talk about corruption. We like to be able to put concrete measures in the Catalan political Tableau, and therefore propose improvements. I have already said: more than 260 – more than 260 – that we have voted in favour of the vast majority of the proposals that have been approved. And, therefore, we will not be inconvenient to approve, again, the majority of proposals that you are making on the protection of whistleblowers, on the corruption mechanism – which you have certainly accepted our concern – on the outsiders, on the codes of conduct. Because we agree, and among other things, because we already do. And, for example, anonymous complaints are already at the Anti-Fraud Office, fortunately; it is a new mechanism that has been implemented and is published in the transparency portal. And you come to say that if it's nothing, that if I don't know what and I don't know how many. Okay. You think you're staring at what you're doing. And precisely because of this we have some of the laws of transparency, fortunately, the most advanced of Europe; and because of this we push and implement different measures and we have worked for a year in very many measures to the Commission, to the Cemcord, which, I suppose, did not? , also, these conclusions will come, therefore, here, in the plenary of Parliament. And, therefore, you try to make this pim-pam-pum political, certainly for then trying to post, make videos, etc., which is perfectly legal and fantastic– and it's fantastic, and it's fantastic. But here we try to do politics, and with which we want to do politics and we try to find solutions, so we support it; but we do not accept its demagoguery. And you make a demagogue when you push at this cliff and even say, "No, because you're meeting with the extreme right, and because you don't know what. But, of course, it's that you have to be clear. Because you so soon tell us that we're from Chavez and that we're from Venezuela and that we're from Cuba and then they tell us that we're the extreme right. You, yes, go to demonstrations with speech-speaking people, because it's taken there and you see the game and the arrows, but if there are published photos. And to you too much neck, too much neck. But reality is coughing – reality is coughing. And as it is, you in the Parliament of Catalonia put forward motions to make proposals to reverse and prevent corruption and the Joint Parliamentary Group for Yes that so much criticize for this motion, give them support, because we, I hope, like you, agree to avoid and fight corruption. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.149.0	Thank you, Mr. Moral Gomez. To fix his position, Mr. Jordi Terrades of the Socialist Parliamentary Group has the words.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.150.0	Thank you, President. Counselor... I see there's a lot of excitement this late. Look, we're basically in the majority of points that Mr. Mirror is offering us, we'll give him support. In some, I've read advance that no, I'll explain why. We will not support it because we believe, we have publicly defended it, that corruption is intrinsically incompatible with democracy, and that it forces all of us to take a follow-up of measures from transparency, effectively; to a more accurate regulation of public contract, as public contract has a very sensitive role, as one of the main focus of corruption, right? ; to improve control bodies, to a much more careful vigilance than it is carrying out; to fight against tax fraud; to fight against tax havens; to the indispensable sanction of the authors. And, like society – and we as Members and Members also have to do this – invites us, this situation, to make a profound reflection and a change to a culture that has sometimes been too understandable with corruption, that eventually become greater corruption, right? That we should protect from institutions, from the Parliament of Catalonia, and that we should proceed to a regeneration of democratic quality, right? By combining the adoption of various measures and reforms, which re-establish the common good, the general interest, the person, right? In short, at the centre of concern and political action. It's an ethical and not cynical approach to politics, too when you're in control, Mr. Mirror, the government, huh? – also when the government is controlled – that it is, precisely, able to contribute to a construction of a more just society, more egalitarian, more decent, more dignified, because corruption has an absolutely dissolving character of democracy. And if, over the instruments we have, then, they are institutionally weak, or there is the perception that they are institutionally weak, we do neither transparency nor the fight against corruption a favor. That is why this is one of the issues that was raised by the Commission for the Study against Corruption, which has ended, has already closed its work, a week ago. But it is that, rather, in this Parliament, in the two last legislatures, as at least there have been three commissions that, in a global or in a partial way, have attacked this phenomenon and made a whole series of proposals, and that some have instrumentalized themselves through the same laws, the same rule that this Parliament has adopted, haven't they? To deal seriously with this situation, the behaviour of all of us, is essential to return also, from our point of view, public confidence in democratic institutions, public servants, whether elected or functioning, and also helps to build a less understanding society with the tripijocs we have seen, eh? It is inexcusable – to end this intervention – that an imputed public channel – "investigated, in the current terminology" – for corruption..., should resign; now, it does not cease to be a personal measure. And, therefore, what we need to look for are mechanisms that do not affect the government, because this is a proposal that tells the government: "Do this. No, no, this is a mechanism that involves agreements and consensus between political formations and legislative changes, and some legislative changes that will occur at these times in the Congress of Deputies, huh? It's for this reason that we at this point are going to abstain, huh? because we think we need to build consensus and not burden the government. Because also some of the questions you raise here end up being contradictory to the resolutions that were approved by the commission of study against the fraud. And finally, with these few seconds left to me, Mr. Mirror, you must convince me that this young man that you are presenting today is an opportunistic young man, from the point of view that in his own plethora, or in his own plethora, we will have the opportunity to debate, as has already been explained, 260 agreements, resolutions, which affect, precisely, the struggle against corruption and fraud. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.151.0	Thank you, Mr. Terrades. Next is the words of Mr. Albano Fachin, of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.152.0	Thank you, President. Well, a lot of things have been said, some of which we share. First of all, we've read the six points, they say things we share most of what we're here. It's funny that we all share it, and there's still corruption in it, isn't there? Because we share it, and we really need to see what we're trying to do. I'll do a rest of six points. We are talking about the protection of corruption whistleblowers, and this – someone said earlier – is a topic that is working in various administrations, from the assembly, from the government, from the Anti-Fraud Office. I want to remind you that this is not working because some political group has come here to put on a medal; because I remember, for example, the initiative of the people of Xnet who always claim to "citizens did it, not citizens, citizens did it. [[Some applause.]] It's the people who... Point 2... "Mechanisms of inter-administrative collaboration. I'd miss more. And it would be more and more lacking in more and more administrative collaboration. We agree. « Dismissal of defendants. Well, we share that, too. And we share it because we have shown from our party that when this happens we do not take refuge in this presumption of innocence where it is taken away so many times that it is manifest that they are not innocent. I remember the case of Victoria Rosell, persecuted by a gentleman who is said José Manuel Soria; so, there we applied what we said, and then, obviously, the complaint was filed. But we're done. « Renunciation of the outposts. Remember, the outages, with which we disagree, are part of a system that operates throughout the Spanish State, starting – starting – for the inviolability of the King of Spain, which is "irresponsible to the law, says the..., is irresponsible or..., yes, irresponsible, and says the Constitution, huh? I'm not saying that the king is an irresponsible, the Constitution says, I'm not saying that we have problems; well, like I'm out of my way, neither, huh? [[The timer laughs.]] Point number five. « Watching heritage. All right, all right. The 6: "Deployment of transparency rules. Let's deploy. Deploy. I insist, we give it support, we all agree, it seems to be going pretty well. Citizens may say he pulls a series of anti-corruption measures. Well, that's part of the game we're doing here, while the citizenry does it – while the citizenry does it. Hey! That we're all responsible, huh? Many times. But this type of young man, and this reflection I have done at other times and in relation to other motions..., I think that, like all of us today, corruption is a very difficult phenomenon, and therefore we must be very careful not to dilute, not to trivialize, not to make corruption and transparency one more tool of the political game and of the headlines. What we have to work for, that's why we're here, and we have to work to solve these things, but I think we have to try to overcome things like this, don't we? Because it's useful – or I'm trying to make it useful for what we're saying here – because these five minutes that citizenship has given us, so I'm going to try to make it useful..., I want to invite all the deputies and the people who can get to look at this, who visit a web page that's called llusitaquigraphs. cat, that there are people here who know her very well, that it was also possible because "citizenship did it and because citizenship helped that was achieved. And I want to advertise. I want to make propaganda of a book that is said IBEX 35: A heretical history of power in Spain..., of a man named Rubén Juste. And that when we read this book we see that corruption is a very deep thing, it is something that has to do with the very structure of this state and that it is totally rooted in the deepest. That is why our proposals have to go deep. We all try to do the best we can; let's go deeper. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.153.0	Thank you, Mr. Fachin. Next, has the word Ms. Anna Gabriel, of the Popular Unity Candidature - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.154.0	Well, good afternoon. When Mr Espejo-Saavedra introduced the young man, he said: "Today it is time to talk about corruption. Every day we talk about corruption, and that's why we do it every day. In fact, a good part of our Members, when the plenary sessions are over, such as this week, will present themselves to Llums and stenographers; in this case, today, for example, in Tarragona. If your citizens in Tarragona want to see it, they will have a chance, therefore, to take a break from corruption in the Catalan countries in the last few years. I set the example of today, but that's every day. In the course of the week, in this Parliament, but outside this Parliament, above all in the assemblies and above all in the streets, we are talking about corruption. Therefore, today we are also willing to do so, because I insist on it, with the least, we do it every day; you, I do not know. You said – that it's okay, and that it's the function of the opposition – to force the government, right? And demanding that the government stay absolutely... he didn't say so with those words, but he can be a front guard in the fight against corruption. We, too, agree and work on this line. What we haven't just heard is that to force the government to do something, because I think this young man, basically, is this. I have been told by other spokespersons who have preceded me: there is nothing new, if we take into account all the conclusions that have been debated and approved in the committee; there is nothing new. Or, better said: yes, there is the possibility that you or you correct some mistakes not in yesterday's vote, which also, but in the committee's vote, eh? And I'll go up and down to see that maybe the feeling is about correcting your own layouts. For example, the number 1 point is already the number 18 point of the conclusions. Finally, at point 18 it went further, because we don't just want to protect the functionaries or public workers who report, we want to protect all those people – citizens, not parties, we also make the claim – who report. Therefore, we do not see that protection is to be restricted only to public workers, but as in the Commission's conclusions we have already approved the extensive reading, it is subsumed here and, therefore, we will reiterate our vote. But, I insist, that this, therefore, is already approved in committee. The second point, the truth is that we have to vote yes, because it's ours, the point. The Catalan mechanism of fighting corruption and fraud we propose more than eight months ago in a motion that we defended to fight corruption; we have told the government that this mechanism is not working. Therefore, of course we will vote in favour of a point that we have presented ourselves. I understand that you want to include security forces and things in the final transaction for this addition and, therefore, the mechanism remains entirely as we had set it up. Point 3, the same: that's already point 13 of the conclusions. You're asking the public authorities to resign. Sounds good to us. You're predicting, I insist, in our conclusions, what's going on is that I think you at the time voted against it, huh? I have here, I have gone over the votes that you have made... "Establishing that the judicial charge of any elected office involving the immediate and automatic cessation, has abstained. How they must think, therefore, that it is now opportune to vote in favour of it, so that is why they are presenting it. Point 4: "Pushing changes in current legislation to limit or eliminate political outages, is also foreseen in point 19. You voted against it. In fact, we have an open-ended cloud point that also addresses issues of incompatibility and ineligibility and also addresses this issue. Point 5: code of conduct, also predicted, point 14 of the conclusions. Moreover, in the code of conduct, we went further and referred not only to public bodies, but also to public operators. We also have to require a code of conduct for those who perform public administration functions, even though it is in the claus of outsourcing or subcontracting, a model that you defend a lot, a model that feeds, augurs, isoxopluga and paraigua in many cases to corruption. Point 6. I think this is the star point. I think this is the real reason for the young man you want to present. Because they told us one day publicly: "We will not stop demanding from the Councillor Raül Romeva that you make public some memos of his external action. And you do. Every time they get the chance, in committee or in plenary, we get to vote this same point. It seems very good to us, the particular Croatian you have with the Romeva Councillor. We are not part of the government; we are not involved, in our own particular Croats. And, finally, the title looks great, to the young lady. "Democratic regeneration," you say. Democratic regeneration is something that went far beyond six points. Democratic regeneration is to defend the right to decide and defend the reference; democratic regeneration is not to hide in the Constitution for whatever debate we need to have. It's addressing the root causes and not talking about corruption alone. Let's talk about corruptors, that these are the entrepreneurs, this private space that is surely the reason you were born, to serve the interests of these private corporations. For this reason, when you say freedom what you mean is subordinate to the interests of capital. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.155.0	Thank you, Mrs. Gabriel. Then, to pronounce himself on the exams, has the word "señor Espejo-Saavedra".
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.156.0	Thank you, President. I was just sending me whatsapps with Mr. Botín, a little for the IBEX theme, to see if we could get a little money. But he said no, they're not going to give us anything, because also... anyway, the bites that are paid drain the resources. I, Mr. Gómez del Moral, understand that it is hard for you to go on the election list of the 3_per_cent party. I understand it's hard for you. I wouldn't be able to. But, of course, getting out here, a person from Esquerra, to defend Convergence, I understand it's hard. And in that sense, then, look, I sympathize with you. I believe that what scares you is not to join with ultra-rightist parties or xenophobic parties, because you like that, that is, that you do, that you ask for it. They go there and say, "Hey, I want to meet you and shake hands with you. That doesn't make any difference to you. They meet with them. What turns them off is that: to be from Esquerra and have to come out here to defend Convergence. That's how it turns out, and I get it. Look, if you want to get rid of this burden, I encourage you to ask for a Convergence funding commission. Do you agree? Because we have asked for it, the irregular funding commission of the People's Party of Bárcenas. And he has chosen, the People's Party – he has chosen the People's Party. Are you and you able to do the same with your colleagues in Convergence, with your president? Do it – do it – that nothing happens, that you can do if you really believe it. Though it shields them, though it shields them to Convergence. And as for the People's Party, I already know that Rajoy protects the defendants of his party. But, Mrs. García, these of the defendants are also lentils – they are also lentils. If you speak of coherence, which you have spoken of coherence, tell the President of Murcia to resign, which is what he signed, what he promised publicly and what his community law says – what he signed, what he promised publicly and what his community law says. So, of consistency, few lessons. Normative changes. Yes, a lot has to be done. But, above all, what we are trying to do here is a political commitment. And here are six measures, that of the 200 of the Cemcord commission, do you know how much it is? A 3-per-cent. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.157.0	Thank you, Mr. Mirror. Call it a vote. Mrs. Garcia, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.158.0	President, yes. First for allusions and then for a separate vote. First of all, direct allusions. Well, let's see... Mr. Mirror, you can change your mind every time you make a congress in your party, but not in principle. The ideological line and the political activity that sets a party is done in the chamber where one has competition. You have denied an amendment of this party, of the People's Party, which is a literal copy, as I say, a literal copy, of your bill for all of Spain with regard to the resignation of those charges in respect of which the oral trial and the trial are opened. This is called political incoherence, no matter how much it shields them. The pooled vote would be 1, 2 and 6; separate, 3 and 4 and 5 may be pooled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.159.0	Okay. Mr. Moral Gomez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.160.0	Well, like Mrs. Garcia, but in the opposite sense, let's say. For some reason, and to ask for a separate vote. I'll do it first, if that's what it looks like. Point 3 and point 6. Yeah?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.161.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.162.0	And then to tell Mr. Mirror, I don't see it now, but you must be... I'm sorry. I'm sorry. So, no, we don't have any problems, we don't have any problems of conscience or type. It's more like I'm in love with you, because you're doing it. If so against the ultrathreat, I stopped manifesting at the side of people... I stopped going to acts where there are numerous leaders of ultrathreat, even one of the leaders of the New Force. I ask you to apply it and don't give lessons that you don't have any logic or feel in this room. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.163.0	Mr. Mirror, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.164.0	Yes, by allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.165.0	Thirty seconds, Mr. Mirror.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.166.0	Yes, for Mr. Gómez del Moral's allusions. Mr. Gómez del Moral, I already know the slogan: "Let's see if we bite them, and so on. But those who meet with xenophobic ultra-rightists on request are you, it's Mr. Romeva, it's the Transparency Advisor, who is in the government you support. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.167.0	Separate vote requested... points 1 and 2 can be voted together? [[Pause. José María Espejo Saavedra Conesa asks to speak.]] Mr. Mirror, won't you have to ask for a separate vote? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.168.0	No, no, One moment. It's to ask for the reading of the point... I'm sorry, huh? Yes, points 1 and 3 of the motion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.169.0	Points 1...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.170.0	U and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.171.0	...of the young man. Before we proceed to the vote, the fourth secretary will read them. Now we see separate votes. A separate vote has been requested from points 1 and 2, which can be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah. Then, on the third. Can 4 and 5 vote together? [[Pause.]] Yes or no? [[Pause.]] No, no, And the 6th. So we'll only vote together points 1 and 2, and the others we'll have to vote separately, okay? [[Pause.]] So now we're going to read points 1 and 3.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.172.0	Yes, thank you, President. Point 1: "Up to the entry into force of the Law on the Protection of complainants and other anti-corruption measures, take all relevant regulatory measures to ensure the protection of public employees who report cases of corruption. Such measures should ensure that complainants are kept confidential and protected from possible reprisals. Point 3: "Take all relevant political measures to ensure that Catalan public officials who are charged in cases of corruption resign from their public office immediately. This measure should apply to autonomous deputies and senior officials of the public perimeter of the Generalitat de Catalunya and all its subordinate bodies. In addition, such charges may not be included in electoral lists until proven innocent.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.173.0	Thank you, Mrs. Barrufet. We shall now proceed to the vote. In the first place we will vote together points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were approved by 130 votes in favour, against and abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 43 votes to 10, with 78 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. Point 4_has been approved by 120 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number five. The vote begins. Point 5_has been approved by 121 votes in favour, against and 10 abstentions. And then we'll vote point number six. The vote begins. Point 6_has been rejected by 60 votes in favour, 71 against and no abstentions. And as we've already voted on the whole motion... we're not voting on the rest of the motion, which has already been voted on. [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into the balance of the first year since the adoption of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergence, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response]] [[302-0127/11]] Therefore, we will proceed to the next item on the agenda, which is item 17, which is: Motion following the question to the Government on the balance of the first year since the adoption of Resolution 17/XI, on the situation of social emergence, economic reactivation, public management and the need for an institutional response, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Catalonia Yes that is Pot. To expose it has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela. And I give them thanks to go out in a hurry and in silence. [[Pause.]] Mr. Coscubala, when you want to.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.174.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, first of all, I want to begin by thanking the spokesman of all the parliamentary groups and also Councillor Neus Munté for the effort and the ability of dialogue they have maintained on this issue, which have allowed us, even though it is in the extreme, to reach important points of compromise, and if not disagreement, which is not enough on some occasions. And we have done so because I believe that we share, all that we are here, the importance..., that Parliament has to act on the agreements it adopts, among other things because the evaluation of policies is a key element of the quality of democracy, and also sometimes..., we are used to Parliament approving things that after that it does not even follow up on its compliment. From this perspective, therefore, it is much more important even when this affects a subject such as that of social emergence, a social emergence that, we do not forget, I think it does not forget anyone, is still very present in our society and that it is still more unbearable when those who suffer – poor, extreme poor, poor children – hear about economic recovery without the economic recovery having reached them or at the door of the canton. In this sense, it is clear that there can hardly be a solution to the problem of inequality and poverty if there is no radical change in social policies, and also in the prosecutors that allow these social policies to be financed. Yesterday wasn't a good day. And since they're not yet to be disgraced, today we can take a step forward in this sense. This is the concern that brought us, to the Group of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot, to present the inquiry, and as a consequence of this to present a simple, simple motion. We said at the time, that it had only two sides, that after the transactions have increased to four, but I think it is governable. In the debate, Councilwoman Neus Munté, legitimately, as is obvious, defended the follow-up..., and also a very positive appreciation of the degree of compliment of these agreements. We already expressed to them that we had a different opinion, an opinion that not only we, but many of the groups in the chamber and also the social entities, expressed around this topic. And as it is obvious that what has not been felt is that we are discussing each other with reason and strong statements about who is right, then there is no other solution than asking for something that seems to us to be frankly acceptable, and it is that one year after the approval of those resolutions of the plenary..., Resolution 17/XI, of the Social Emergence Plenary, the Government will appear before the plenary of the Parliament, in order to give accounts, to account for the compliment of this resolution. I believe that, moreover, Parliament has the right and at the same time the obligation to carry out a thorough follow-up and to hold them accountable, because, in the end, "account for it, "transparency, there are two words that can't just decline them, but can practice them, and from this point of view I think that if this young man is approved, then he can be a good example in this sense. I mean, I didn't even need anyone to ask for it, but in any case, if they get to the right port, they'll follow the paths from this point of view. That is why the first part of our motion had this objective: to ask the Parliament to request the Government to appear on its own request in the plenary to give explanations of this compliment. The second part of our young man places the focus on the issue of guaranteed income of citizenship, which, in our view, and of many of the groups of this chamber, must be the new right of citizenship that acts as an articulator of social policies. And we have done so because, despite the fact that they have been divided, practically, from this legislature, let us continue in this sense – after a lot of efforts by everyone, which I want to recognize, but the efforts must somehow materialize – let us continue in the same terms as at the beginning of the legislature, which I mean at the end of the previous legislature: we have a very powerful popular legislative initiative, which is being negotiated, which is being discussed, but for now you do not see the light. And I understand, it's difficult, it's complex, it has to be articulated, it has to be financed, it has to be secure, but I think it's absolutely essential. And in this sense we have insisted on a very cautious aspect, which is that this guaranteed income of citizenship cannot be an income of any kind, it is no longer a benefit; it must be a subjective right, that it is recognized to everyone and allows him the possibility to exercise this right, and it must also be a right that also perceives those people who are in a poor situation but who, in change, work. Interestingly, this would have been unthinkable to us some time ago, but today working and having a poor situation are not incompatible things; unfortunately, the poor work is a reality. And, therefore, we believe, as many people believe, that the compatibility between the benefit of guaranteed income from citizenship and the fact of paying for wages resources under this shield should be established, this incompatibility. Let's not think about it: they are saying, they are claiming unions, organization with Justice and Pau, Caritas, Christianity and Justice, the people who work with the children of the Raval... All these people are asking for it and we want to carry the veil of this reality. Well, there's more to it. We have submitted reports, we have processed them, I believe, practically all of them, and in any case afterwards, in the second intervention, I will explain in what terms we have been able to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.175.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. Then, to defend the papers presented, has the word of Mr Raúl Moreno, of the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.176.0	Well, thank you, President. Consellera Bassa, honourable vice..., consellera also of the Government of the Generalitat, deputies, deputies, the motion that presents today Catalonia Yes that it is Pot, therefore, poses from the table two related themes, but at once different; they are two important themes, of much content, and therefore I will try to be schematic, because I would like to talk a little bit of the two. The first has to do with the Social Emergencies Plea that we did in this Parliament Plea last year, at the request of Catalonia Yes, it is Pot and the PSC, a plea of Emergencies with 273 emergency measures that did not have a compliment of Emergencies or Emergencies. Therefore, one year later, we are in a situation in which... it is not only the opinion of the parliamentary group, but of the rest of the social and trade union entities of the country, which demand a greater degree of compliment from us of truth, and not just of the paper, of which were the commitments that we have acquired since the Parliament in that plethora of social emergence. Some resolutions, which are presented to us by the Government, where there is a backlash of what are the compliments of those measures, which tell us that they are at 80_per_cent, that the actions, 80_per_cent, are in progress or in application, as if it were the same; and it is not the same. But if we look at them in detail, we'll see how it works when the paper can handle everything. I will give just two examples. First, an action: "Working in an integral strategy to eradicate violence against children; he puts it there: "In application. And justify that they have created various working groups and the Interdepartmental Committee on the Follow-up of Sexual Abuse Protocols to Minors. Do you know how many times the Interdepartmental Committee for the Follow-up of Sexual Abuse Protocols met in Minors in 2016? Two times – two times. That's embarrassing, it's intolerable and it's fearful. According to action: "Destine an open and extendable game to the minimum income of insertion; it will pose there: "In study. Study? The assumptions we've just approved are clear that they don't leave an open game for minimum input income. It is not in the study, the decision has already been taken: there has not been an open start for the minimum income of insertion. Therefore, I hope that with the appearance that is made here all the groups can analyze in detail who are the actions that make it possible or not to fulfill those commitments that this Parliament has acquired. And I'd like to talk about guaranteed citizenship income. We have insisted, like PSC, on linking guaranteed citizenship income to the compliment of employment and social inclusion programs, because we consider that it is the best way to make people who receive guaranteed income get out of the situation in which they find themselves. Therefore, we link up, even more so than is currently proposed, that which reprehenses the guaranteed return of citizenry can and must access social and work placement itineraries. Because the economic debate is so important, it's to say, when people come up with the concept of guaranteed citizenship income, what measures they have to take to get out of the situation in which they find themselves. Before it passed with the minimum income of insertion that the people had, logically, the money, but they did not have the ability to access the courses of labor and social formation. And that's not what we want, because what we want is just to take over the people. We want a guaranteed income to form, to give, and not only money, connected to the world of work, to encourage co-responsibility, to accompany those that the system has left out. We believe in a guaranteed income that is a right subject to all years, not just the year 2017, as proposed by the Government in the proposal we have. And why don't you? Why didn't he propose that it be a right subject years later than 2017? So, for very, very clear questions. That is to say, I believe that what is going on at these times is a guaranteed income that the Government cannot finance, but that it is willing to come to an agreement, and it is willing to come to an agreement to fill the full blank of the social policies that the Government of Catalonia has at these times. Look, there are two great doubts at these times in guaranteed income; they are, or, how much it will cost, and two, how many people will be able to benefit from guaranteed income in the parameters that we are in these moments debating. And this very week sociologist Benet Fusté made an approach from official data. He tells us that with the proposal we have right now on the first year's taulatenim, more than 103,000 would be right at the benefit and that the year 2020, when it's over, would benefit 265,000. Caldrian, therefore, EUR 445_million for the guarantee of the year 2018 and EUR 1,400_million for the year 2020. In another way, with the assumptions that we have just approved, that you have just approved, that you have just approved this Parliament, we do not even get to the half of the money that we need to make the guaranteed income of citizenship in 2018. Clearly, the year 2017, in two or three months, will give us the margin to do it, of course; but the year 2018, no. And surely that's why you raise this right subject only by the year 2017, more interested may be in getting to the elections with a page given that you have approved the guaranteed income than in actually making it a right subject and making an alternative to people who have difficulties. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.177.0	Thank you, Mr. Moreno. Then has the word Lord Chakir the Homrani, of the Parliamentary Group Joints for the Yes.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.178.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, MPs and MPs, I'll be very brief, because five minutes to talk about what we need to talk about, like it's a short time... And the first thing I've done at the time of thinking a little bit about this intervention is to get back an idea that comes from social entities when we did the extraordinary Ple. If you ask for a long look – if you ask for a long look – I think we all remember here at the..., as if you ask for a long look. And, of course, you think: "They ask us for a long look, and in one year, after bimonthly reports have been made, after the commission of follow-up has been convened three times, another debate is called, and you say: "So, I don't know if it's a long look, I don't know if we respond to the will of social entities. It is an element in which we must reflect. I've settled... there's been three follow-up committee meetings, there's been bimonthly compliment reports, and we don't have a problem, we've talked about it, and the follow-up committees are all the entities, they're the parliamentary groups, it's an ideal space for accountability. And then we can discuss, if it is considered that the reports have to be modified, they have to generate us indicators, talk to it and look for it and agree to it. But, well, this is the long look, the long look is that I wear two minutes to pass the extraordinary plenary of poverty that we had a year ago. Okay. Long look. The second point that this young man has focused on is in relation to guaranteed income, guaranteed income, in which I don't think anyone can say that this government hasn't gone away, that this parliamentary group hasn't gone away and that it has sought to find these agreements that allow us to overcome the paradigm around social welfare policies; because what we are planting is a very powerful element, it's a paradigm overcome. Now, in which I believe we must be fair is not to turn a very complex debate into a very complex one, in which all the members we have been on the board know that there are very different ambitions, in a manicau debate, of whites and blacks, because it is very complex and we have moved as much as possible and we continue day by day negotiating, talking and seeking solutions. Now, there are certainly decisions that must be taken in a form of force, reflected force and with a lot of content. When we talk about complementarity in labor returns, we need to be aware of the effects it has on the labor market, we need not be aware. We need to be aware that what we are doing is complementing companies' salaries from the Administration, and this has some effects, has some effects on the job market, has some possible dangers. Just as we also have to think, and in this we agree, that the crisis and these years have led to a new figure, who are workers with tickets that lead them to be poor. I mean, situating the two elements, but I decide it at a point of one motion, two, three, four, five, six, seven lines, how complicated it is – it's complicated – for the effect it has on the submerged economy, which way it works, is to say... And here's where we're in the debate; we've had some questions that we've devoted all the time to discussing the subject, we're... And we're aware of the complexity and we're looking for the solution, but that's what I'm doing, you say, "I don't know. It is like presenting in three_months the plan of administrative simplification and rationalization of social services. We have explained this by active and passive: this must be done as you are implementing the guaranteed income, because it allows you to see the feeling of the other services a time you have not generated one; because, if not, we can be absolutely wrong. But, well, we've tried, we've tried to agree... in some respects we'll abstain, in most respects, for a serious matter, because I can't say that in one thing I'll agree. We have many meetings and we're very close, but I can't say. I can't say what the agreement will be; this will be a question of all folds. Nor can I say that in three months I will have a planning in which I make a closing of the entire social services map of this country, because I think it is a much more complex issue. But we've tried to find the agreement, we've tried to find this agreement, but sometimes we know hard about simple, manic visions. I guess it's inevitable; I guess we all do, too, because in the female pharistoll you have. But in these matters, I think we'd have to be more able to find the fundraiser. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.179.0	Thank you. Then, to fix his position, has the word Mrs. Naomi of the Street, of the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.180.0	Thank you, President. The Social Emergency Monographic Plenary was the first to bring me down to this atrium, and perhaps it was the naivety of a prime minister who made me feel enormously excited and motivated, because I believed that the measures we were going to discuss here would help to improve the situation of the worst people who were going through it. My parliamentary group put forward measures for economic recovery, to shield the social state or to combat unemployment, with proposals to combat child poverty, to ensure equal access to education or to reduce waiting lists in health care. Many proposals were put forward from all parliamentary groups and a good battery of them was approved. I came out of that plenary with the feeling that when there is real political will, agreements can be reached that are beneficial to citizens, that are translated into social progress. But my dream didn't last long because it turned into a nightmare when the government presented its first compliance report, which was nothing but a hairdo; like the next two reports. Mr. Chakir, three reports in one year. First mistake: it has not been bimonthly reports, it has been a report every four months. The last of these reports says that 83_per_cent of the measures are under way or are being implemented. Paparruchas, because then, when you read the small letter, you realize that it is not true, that they are not fulfilling them, as the deputy Raúl Moreno has pointed out. It is as if the report were written in two different languages, as if the measures adopted were in Klingon and the Government's response were in Romulan. Not to mention the measures they show to have been under study for a year. And I'm going to give you an example. One of the measures presented by Citizens and approved at that plenary session: to encourage the number of agents of Mossos d'Esquadra aimed at gender-based violence. And since then, these reports state that this measure is under study. I wonder: what is to be studied in this regard? Does it take a year? It is a true act that denotes the lack of sensitivity of the Government, in whose political project it is not possible to put an end to the suffering of those who are going through the worst. It is not a priority for them, because although when something interests them they do give priority to them; such as, for example, disconnection laws, although they deal with them urgently. It is clear what interests them and what they do not. Where is the education counselor? Where is the Health Advisor? What about Councilwoman Borràs? What about Vice President Junqueras? They'll be in their hamster or static bike factory, 'cause I don't see them here. However, in the follow-up meetings that were held in the Palau de la Generalitat, although we saw Councilwoman Munté and Vice-President Junqueras very willing to come out in the photo; meetings that, by the way, are no longer convened; since October none has been called again because, of course, they did not realize that after each meeting opposition groups and entities were outraged to report that nothing had changed since the plenary session. That and not another is the modus operandi of a government that is not only against the Spanish State, but is fundamentally against the social rule of law. And, Mr. Chakir, second mistake: there have only been two follow-up meetings, not three. And with regard to the second point of the motion, from my parliamentary group we have always been strongly in favour of guaranteed income compatible with income from work. We cannot allow poor workers with precarious and partial jobs who, to a large extent, are single women with dependent children to stay out of access to this benefit. And we welcome the fact that other groups, such as the Socialist Party, are going to vote in favour of this, of this guaranteed income compatible with labour income, because that means that perhaps we are closer to adopting measures such as those that defend Citizens, such as the guaranteed wage supplement; a highly redistributive and truly effective mechanism to combat the poverty of those people who, despite working, still do not meet their most basic needs. From Citizens, we will vote in favour of this motion because we want to regain the spirit of the Social Emergency Plenary, we want access to housing to be guaranteed, we want the operating rooms to be opened in the afternoons to reduce waiting lists, we want effective measures to combat gender-based violence and we want a guaranteed income that does not leave poor workers unprotected. And above all, from Citizens we want to regain the dignity of this institution; an institution that, instead of working only for a few, as this Government does, works for all Catalans and, in particular, for the most unprotected. Because, as a public representative who pays a salary from the citizens, what I really want is to work for them and to make their lives easier and more comfortable, and not to participate in a misconception like the one yesterday imposed on us by two groups that do not have a social majority. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.181.0	Thank you very much, Mrs. De la Calle. Next, the words of Mrs. Marisa Xandri, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.182.0	Thank you, President. Vice President, counsel, well, Catalonia Yes, it is Pots presents us a young man; a young man with two very clear points. And the truth is that, Mr Coscubala, I thank you for this simplicity, but at times, the depth of these two points that after, therefore, with the Socialist Party's statements have remained with four points, right? And I already have to say that we think that these papers presented by Mr Moreno complement this motion very positively. As I say, it is a brief motion on the social emergency situation that many people see and need to receive an urgent response from the government. In fact, it was already clear in the resolution adopted a year ago, March 2016, that there were various areas that were grouped into these blocs, and I would like to make a special reference to this one that called for the compliment and follow-up of this resolution, the result of the proposal that we negotiated all parliamentary groups, less together for the Yes and the CUP. A proposal that we were obliged to make ahead of the escalating compliments of the resolutions and agreements entered into in the extraordinary plenary held at the length of the present legislature. And concretely – and, I say, I'm paid in March 2016 – in this proposal we asked to set up a follow-up commission within two months to participate in the government, the different parliamentary groups and the social and professional entities of the sector. They have done it or not; they have done or not done these commissions, but they have also, apart from that, asked that we give account, in each of the corresponding parliamentary commissions, of the degree of compliment of the agreements entered into, and finally, and so long as it was accessible to all citizens, that this information is posted on the Government's website. Well, as far as I'm concerned, you haven't presented a report before Parliament's committee, and you haven't explained anything. And in one year, so, we've seen – already commented – three miserable reports, right? , follow-up documents for the measures approved in that extraordinary Ple. Just remember there were a lot of proposals, huh? , the majority– the majority– dealt with situations of social emergence. So, we're talking about a year ago, about social emergencies that are still unresolved today. That said, we are totally in agreement to give support to this first point so that it is coming to account for what is the state of that resolution, on the margins of the document drawn up this past month of generation, because in this way the parliamentary groups can also say ours and contribute our grain of suspense. For what he does at the guaranteed income point, we've been consulting for a long time, hoping that the government will take a step forward – a step forward – and, once and for all, have the courage to reach an agreement with the ILP commission. We know that for some time now there have been meetings between the department and the promoters; but for the time being, as we know, it has not yet come to an agreement, it has not closed down. Therefore, we know that there are advances, that there is, but the reality is that on March 23, 2017 we still do not have the guaranteed income of citizenship that you promised. And what's at stake here basically, in this young man, is making them work. That's to say, what's right – it's already been said, isn't it? – despite the fact that it is working every time the unsub is lower than the IRSC, and that it is currently at 664_euros and that it is certainly an index that has been frozen for a long time. It is true that this issue generates some controversy, I will not deny it, in the sense that we think that it must be very clear – I repeat: very clear – in the law that we hope to see approved, that it is only intended for those people who actually work on a half-day or a few hours per need, eh? ; by necessity, not to supplement the tickets that already arrive to the lar. And it is clear that it will take control on the part of the Administration to avoid precarious, fraudulent contracting, as well as looking for mechanisms to prevent an increase in the submerged economy. Whenever this goes on, we will give support to it, I repeat, because we remember that this income is to cover basic needs, for more: covering basic needs. And above all, we ask for support because the most representative social entities so ask. And in this sense, I want to refer to the ECAS Foundation, Caritas and Mans Unides, among others, that make this petition to the Government. And, finally, I mentioned it, didn't I? At Mr. Moreno's exams? I think they enrich the motion as to what is being asked, so that you can access social and work placement itineraries and that, therefore, the Administration puts all the mechanisms and all the resources so that this is the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.183.0	Thank you, Mrs. Xandri. Next, has the word Ms. Mireia Vehí, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.184.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon. Josep Manel Busqueta, a enough person mentioned in the plethora that occupies us, says at the time of the voltors that to get out of the crisis we combine three verbs: criticizing, resisting and building. Criticizing and taking the picture of the country is relatively simple. A country torn by crisis and inequality. The youth rate is at 32.18_per_cent in the fourth quarter of 2016, and the syndic's latest report on child nutrition indicated 50,000 cases of malnutrition and 750 cases of malnutrition. At the cost of this photo, the benefits of the IBEX 35 year 2016: 30,000_million euros. And why are we taking these two photos? So, because inequality or the poor is not a fate; the poor is a product of inequality, to which Ovidi summed up so well: "You have been given your heritage and I have been given my life. Resist: we go to combine the verb Resist, and that is what would be the proposal as guaranteed citizen income or some of the measures that will be approved in the plenary of the poor. Mrs. De la Calle: if everyone is approved and there is a long way to go, we would not be able to reverse inequality in this country. Why? Because she doesn't attack the things that cause her. Let's split it up, though. There are two debates in the House that directly identify two of the schools that the Commission and the Government now have at the time of reaching an agreement. The first debate, which has already taken place, because the committee for the promoter has had to take over, is the third point, to which we will vote against – it will be the only point in this young man, already in advance, that we will vote against – and which refers to the second tram, to the two trams in the guaranteed citizen's income. We are against it because we understand that it is logical that guaranteed citizenship is a mechanism for redistribution of wealth, a wealth produced collectively and at the hands of a few, and that, therefore, the people must have the right, and, moreover, it must be a question of justice, that the wealth produced is returned to them without needing to enter the labour market. Getting into the labour market is going back to the logic that the poor is a fate that we can't do anything about. The second point is the point of complementarity. That's more complex, enough arguments have been given to the chamber, already. We understand he's an atzucac. We will vote in favour because that is what the committee is asking for, and because, moreover, there is a series of arguments that give it the need to vote in favour. Complementary guaranteed citizen income is to ensure that a great many of the people who are working in Catalonia are able to access this service. Commissions Workers assigned in an 11.2 the rate of poverty in the work in a later report. And, besides, it is to avoid that the people who covered guaranteed citizenship income, in case it was not complementary, do not access the informal economy in order to survive: 664_euros per month, Mrs Xandri, do not give to much more than to survive. For another band, it's true that complementarity subsidizes precarious work. It's true, because it covers part of the self that should be in charge of businesses and businesses. Keeping them down and undermining them has been one of the logics of European economic policy to maintain competitiveness, and that so much poverty has generated, because it has brought back workers and workers lost them while the winnings are still around the clock. So, as well as sugar, but they see the situation, the dramatic picture that we did before the country, we would vote in favour of this point on complementarity, and both the laying of law as in all the spaces that we work there are trying to ensure that the citizen's income is shot forward in these conditions. In the end, however, we are going to combine the verb 'build', in which, in order to be able, more than the adoption of legislative and emergency measures, such as guaranteed citizenship income or some measures by the plenary of the poor to attack inequality, to build a just country, to go a little further, to talk about redistribution of wealth, taxation, basic income of the same, to push wages, to guarantee pensions and to make a policy of guaranteeing rights. There has been much talk these past few days in this House, in the context of the debate on assumptions and the Bill of Measures. For us, we have said it many times, building the republic of rights is to reverse privileges and assets and redistribute wealth. We understand that guaranteed citizen income is necessary, but we also understand that it is a pal·liatiu, a proposal of minimums. And that, so as to build the republic of the equals, so as to build just Catalan countries, we must count on those that, as Galeano said, do not appear in the universal history, but in the red chronicle of the local press. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.185.0	Thank you, Mrs Vehi. Next, to pronounce on the papers, has the word Mr. Joan Coscubiela.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.186.0	Thank you, Madam President. Well, it seems that today the saying is confirmed: "You can't say blab until it's in the bag and well connected. And that's what I thought, that I was in the bag and well connected, the lipstick. Let's hope there's still one. Fifteen minutes before we started this point we had an agreement with all the groups in the chamber less together for the Yes, with a draft that was the one that was to be considered; we still had possibilities, logically, to deal; we talked and we negotiated, well, I believe, with the company Chakir, of Together for the Yes, also with Councilwoman Neus Munté, and I thought we had reached an agreement to modify the first point, which was the one that had an obstacle, passing from one to two months the deadline for the Government's appearance. And so I expressed it and I asked for permission from the rest of the groups, because it wasn't ours at that time, we had agreed with the rest. I've been given your visit, and so I've communicated it to Chakir and Neus Munté. Okay. Like I don't know what's going to happen, let's just leave it that way, and roll it up. The last draft, what's left of it? Okay. You see that: it is a matter of asking this House to ask the Government to appear on its own motion to be in the accounts of one month, two months. I think it's an acceptable thing. And we accept that previously in this plenary there is the follow-up commission, which is called with an antelation_month. Second question. On the second part of the second block there is an agreement, I think, enough amplification on the part of everyone that they must already go to secure the agreement of the guaranteed income of citizenship. Someone can say: "A_me is very little. But it's one_me after more than two years, three years, that you see this question. Therefore, things are very mature; I recognize the effort made by Constellera Dolors Bassa in this sense, and I hope that in the end this has the support of the government enough to be able to pull it forward. Third apart. We have gathered the PSC's proposal around the right to formation. I just know it's clearly picked up as a people's right, huh? , from that perspective. Therefore, it is not in terms of incompatibility with performance or much less, as someone could interpret, seemed to me the Vehi company. Therefore, I suggest you also have the possibility to modify this question. And the fourth, it seems normal to us, and so we accepted the PSC: a rationalization of the performance. Finally, thanks to what you have submitted; thanks to what you have not, but you have supported this effort and work. And I subscribe, by and large, to the intervention made by Vehi's company, even the quotes of our company Search. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.187.0	Thank you, Mr. Coscubiala. We're calling it a vote. Mr. The Homrani, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.188.0	Yeah. For contradictions and allusions, yes?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.189.0	Forward, thirty-seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.190.0	20 July 2016, 20 September 2016, 20 November 2016, 20 January 2017 and 20 March 2017. It's as easy as hanging out on the web and looking at it. If that's three, they can't read. And respect..., there are things that you don't need or want to say: the interventions of Mrs. De la Calle and Mrs. Xandri, they know that they voted against, two months ago, against the guaranteed performance to Congress is disqualifying for them alone. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.191.0	Mrs. De la Calle, why ask me the word? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.192.0	Forward. Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.193.0	Mr. Chakir..., the guaranteed income voted for in Congress has nothing to do with the guaranteed income we're dealing with here because it comes..., it's about turning the minimum income of insertion into a new benefit, which is the guaranteed income, huh? Since you are the rapporteur, you should have something a little clearer. And with regard to the follow-up reports that we are part of the follow-up committee, we haven't received..., we've only received three reports, huh? So we would appreciate it if all these reports that are penned to the web, we would also receive them from those responsible for monitoring the plenary, because so far we have not received them. Thank you. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.194.0	Mrs Vehi, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.195.0	To ask for a separate vote on the third point, Madam President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.196.0	Okay. He asked himself... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Yeah? A separate vote has been requested on point 3. Mr. The Homrani, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.197.0	To ask for a separate vote on point 1..., point 1 and point 3 together, and point 2 and point 4 together.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.198.0	Can points 1 and 3 be voted together? [[Pause.]] No, no, And the 2 and the 4 either? [[Pause.]] So... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Maybe they vote... it's four points. Maybe we vote them separately and go faster, because we always have... [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Okay, so, go. Let's start the vote by voting point number one. The vote begins. Point 1_has been approved by 130 votes to none, with no abstentions. We're voting point number two. The vote begins. Point 2_has been approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number three. The vote begins. Point 3_has been approved by 122 votes in favour, 8 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number four. The vote begins. The motion on the situation of social emergency, economic recovery, public management and the need for an institutional response was approved by 68 votes in favour, against and 62 abstentions. [[Greetings.]] [[Motion following the Government's inquiry into his actions in the province of Girona]] [[302-0128/11]] Next we move on to the agenda item, which is: Motion following the question to the Government about his actions in the province of Girona, presented by the Parliamentary Group of Ciutadans. To expose it has the word Mr. Jean Castel. [[Pause.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.199.0	Thank you, President. Counsellor, Members, Members, will allow me to make an initial statement: there is a small correction, which has already been communicated to the Bureau, which is about point 11. Instead of talking about "sentence," we are talking about a "resolution," and it has been a correction that we have already moved to the Bureau. That said, today is a sad day. It is a sad day on a ple that has already begun in a bad way, with sad, when we speak of all the blockade that we will see in the day of yesterday, on a presupposition, and a sad day, surprisingly, when we are before a young man..., we understand that Girona and Lleida, that there was a fundamental foundation, based on the necessity, the adequacy, the best of many things that encompass a territory, a few commas, we were also before a young man who called those better for the gironinean commas. Obviously, there are some things that are very parallel to the need when we talk about provinces and communities; but also, of course, we understand and are aware that there is a territorial difference in the area of what Lleida can be and in the area of what Girona can be. But this we understand was not enough, and I still remember that question with the counselor we were talking about responsibility. Look, counselor, and look at the groups that have not presented papers today, converting this young man, born this young man, into this dead chamber: a young man who will not be able to live because some, allow me to say so, have not done their job by doing omitted cases to their responsibilities. But I fixed'squan..., and in the same way they will allow me..., I want to thank the three groups, like the Socialist Party, Catalonia Yes it is Can, and, in this sense, also, the People's Party of Catalonia, because they have remained..., and they have been responsible for looking to enrich..., and we have been able to enrich a young man, we have been able to add, we may, too, make corrections to enrich what was the principle and the objective, which was to improve fears of the gironinean trades, and to put into evidence that this young man, as I have said, has not died, before parties that, as I said before, have not done his work. The responsibility to govern, the responsibility to be parties that give recollection to a government also passes through the responsibility not to fall asleep. Mirin, in Italy there is a phrase that says: "I was not there, and if I was there, I would sleep. I wasn't there, but if I was, I was asleep. You wear six years of sleep, sleep the necessary and responsible policies that Catalonia needs, that Catalans need. That's right, huh? , are the great strategies that know how to convert what we saw yesterday, a presupposition, into the sponsor of their delusions and obsessions. Obviously, closing and shielding, and they will allow me to use a word power not to sound well, "nothing that some called documents, other cards, or, the same president of this chamber, "a note. Escort, respect. And today I want to express the respect we have for the people of this Parliament, because today we were going to hear sentences that were on the red line, and some of us understand some parliamentary groups that are going beyond them. But, fix's, respect the pocket, the profession and the function. Fixed that you will not use the instruments you thought you would want to use for your own benefit. The limit point has arrived. They've come to the end. As we've told you, call elections. They are ahead of the end of a short parliamentary term where you have not taken advantage of a minute to legislate, improve, adapt in Catalonia key and in territories key; in provinces key, in comarques key. The need is very much, and you, as I said before, do little by little about the need. Inaction causes indignation. And if you..., your country is this, we have told you from our parliamentary group, call elections; call autonomous elections and leave and allow it to which we are prepared to govern. Here are some parliamentary groups, and one in concrete, that is Ciutadans, that we are prepared to take on what you do not want to take on or seem to take on in many cases. That said, I have no choice but to thank, as I said before, the groups that have participated, taking responsibility..., their work. And in the time of reply I will just explain to you how and how we visualize ourselves to be governed from a parliament. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.200.0	Thank you, Mr. Castle. The words of Mr Rafel Bruguera are then used to defend the papers presented by the Socialist Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.201.0	Thank you, President. Good afternoon, deputies and deputies. On May 6, 2015, the plenary of this Parliament already approved a motion for an inquiry by our parliamentary group, the Socialist Parliamentary Group, into actions in the Gironine comarques. Therefore, this type of interrogation and subsequent motions, so it is not a topic that is discussed for the first time, it is not a new topic and it is not an original topic in this Parliament. At that time the government did not have the opportunity to issue the compliment report, because it ended the legislature and the motion, so it went down. Therefore, a part of these, of the papers that we present today, a good part, most of the papers that we present, precisely, are recovering, as at least, the hope of those who have already been approved. And, therefore, we believe, we do not think that there should be any problem because they were accepted and approved for the conjunction of the parliamentary arch of the Parliament of Catalonia. In the first place, we have presented three substitutive issues, because we understand that our proposal substantially improves the text that Ciutadans proposed. It is about three key themes, three strategic themes, which, in our view, are fundamental to the economic and social development of the Gironine regions. First place, Girona airport. Obviously we propose, we ask for the need to boost Girona airport and improve the involvement of the Girona institutions in the management of the same airport. Secondly, a youth of this type needed to speak of the Josep Trueta Hospital. But we wanted to open a little focus and talk about the health campus as a project of economic development, teaching and research that obviously also incorporates the need to build a new Josep Trueta Hospital, which is the reference hospital of the conjunction of the gironines. Therefore, we have presented papers... If we have based ourselves, I do not know, on the needs of the commissaries of the movements, of the parks of bombers, of the medical emergencies, of the schools that are in barracks, etc., we could have made a list of absolutely kilometres. And it didn't seem to us that this was the... we didn't want this to be our intention. And, therefore, we wanted to raise aspects that we believe are strategic, important and substantive, and therefore also cross-cutting. Third theme, the Scientific and Technological Park of the University of Girona; absolutely key theme. And, ladies and gentlemen, we're in time for an extension. The science park is in creditor contests and a market judge can decide its liquidation on March 30, this month, huh? , the coming week; so... For another gang, the park has been over for two years. That is to say, managers have done their homework and have shown that the park, from the point of view of its ordinary activity, is viable, which cannot be said by all scientific parks in Catalonia or the Spanish State. But the Girona park has a structural problem: it has an accumulated debt of €42.3 million, of which 27.6 are debts to the State. So, in these moments..., frankly, we'd like to, but it's not about better plans, dynamism plans, strategic plans; it's about saving the park. And we only have a week to do that. And, therefore, what we are proposing to our task, therefore, is to urge the Government to concretely, in a real way, its commitment to acquire the 68_per_cent of the building of the ICRA and the payment, therefore, of the correspondents 4,9_million euros. And the rest of the items, in this case of addition, also go a little on this line. We are talking about the need to draw up a plan of improvement and support for the economic and productive activity of the gironine regions; the creation of a table Girona Activa; an agreement of competitiveness of the tourism sector; obviously, we are talking about the national II; promoting actions for the creation of agricultural interest areas to protect agricultural land and the promotion of local productions, developing a sustainable agricultural model and free of transgenics; maintaining the system's urban master plan as an essential element for the conservation of our territory and our landscape; and for the better of the ski resorts, especially in Vallter 2000. In short, we are..., our papers, as you see, in general, we have tried to further address major issues on which we are convinced that there can be a majority consensus in the parliamentary arc of the Parliament of Catalonia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.202.0	Thank you, Mr. Bruguera. The words of Mr. Sergio Santamaría, of the Popular Parliamentary Group of Catalonia.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.203.0	Thank you, President. Members, Members, Councillor, we are dealing with the motion which covers a great deal and does not go too far, Mr Castel. Because really the motion, as it is presented, would have required a more specific work for what are the demands and claims of the Girona regions. And, above all, it seems to us, from the point of view of the rigour of parliamentary work, that, man, directly transposing the proposals that were made for Lérida to Girona is little less than, in the end, to shoot in pieces. And, therefore, it seems to me that, from the point of view, as I say, of the work, finally, to the parliamentary detail, that should not have happened. We will therefore abstain, on this technical issue with regard to those aspects of the motion. Many of the points they address give for long debates on the desirability of planning with greater rationality and balance the many investments that Girona and the regions need. And since it is not logically possible to do so at this time, I have preferred to focus on the truly objective data that the budgets approved yesterday represent, from an investment point of view, in our eight regions. See, as a percentage, from the point of view of the budget increase, between the 2015 and 2017 budgets, the regions that are most benefited are: Gironès, with an increase of 177_per_cent; Pla de l'Estany, with an increase of 169; Alt Empordà, an increase of 150; Cerdaña, an increase of 134; Ripollès, an increase of 61; the Selva, an increase of 8.17. And, on the contrary, the Garrotxa, with a decrease of 40_per_cent, and the Baix Empordà, with a decrease of 48,5_per_cent. Therefore, you can already see that harmonic growth res of res. And this worries us because it really seems – it seems – that there is no criterion, that there is no rationality in the application. And, in fact, it seems that the contrasted data are due more to the personal agenda of some than to an action aimed at the public interest and the sustainable and balanced development of the territory. And here I want to make a separate point, because I am shocked, and I must say, by the information we are aware of the alleged corruption and the trafficking of influences that are being published, which are in the hands of the court of El Vendrell that investigates the macrocase of 3_per_cent, and, curiously, none of the affected ones deny, speak, or give explanations. What do we call it: traffic in influences or congestion of prebends in the Convergence environment and commissions that have been charged for the direct award of municipal public works? We are also dramatically discovering that the epicenter of this corrupt systemic movement, the zero zone, was in Girona, in its city hall, once led by the current president of the Generalitat, and its government team: deputies, senators, councillors who have formed this municipal government. We know that Mr Bassols, who was arrested on several occasions, was the head of the electoral campaign of Mr Puigdemont ; it was sought to ensure that, by obtaining privileged information through the Department of Governance, they were awarded directly, by fraudulent use of the fragmentation of the amount of contracts, to companies which, as I say, were seen to benefit from this direct award; that is, to the finger. And we've also known that these meetings have been happening with all normality. [[sound the acoustic signal indicating the intervention time has run out]] on the stage of Camp Nou. There is also graphic evidence of that proximity and of that conspiracy. I wonder, gentlemen of the CUP – I hope you say so, too –..., we have moved from the Bernabéu stage to the Camp Nou stage, and you, so ufanos. All because of the lawsuit. That's all for the country: look elsewhere. And it is not limited to the City Hall of Girona ; in Olot, three_quarters of the same. And despite such alarming information, silence, omertà, the political oasis in Girona remains a reality. And it causes me, it disgusts me deeply. It is clear that the rushes, that the hits, that the nervousness, that the stress of what they are showing in this chamber has much to do with the tip of an iceberg so gigantic that when it melts away the independence process that Convergence embraced to cover corruption, and, unfortunately, with the invaluable help of the CUP and the Republican Left. Therefore, you must – you must – take very good note of all this and be aware that, if that is the new country you want to build, of course you are starting on a very bad path. And do not come with moral lessons or, finally, phrases made that you are in favor of transparency and regeneration, because you, if that were so, would not support the budgets of the Generalitat, would not go by the hand of Junts for Yes. And this is really unfortunate, it's embarrassing and, obviously, it shows that politics in Catalonia is corrupt to the brows...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.204.0	Mr. Santamaría...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.205.0	And you have a lot of responsibility.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.206.0	Mr. Santamaría, you've run out of time. And I thought she was from Girona, the young lady, huh? [[Rialles.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.207.0	Yes...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.208.0	I remember...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.209.0	...also, also...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.210.0	Then they complain that they can't talk...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.211.0	Madam President, with all due respect, this Parliament should also be democratic...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.212.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.213.0	...and we're checking how systematically you...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.214.0	Yeah.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.215.0	...you pass through the lining. [[strong remorse of the eyes]] the rules of democracy and the rules of the Regulation.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.216.0	Sir..., Mr. Santamaría...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.217.0	So...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.218.0	...I don't allow it...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.219.0	I demand... I demand the protection you don't give me...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.220.0	...I don't allow what you're saying...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.221.0	...to be able to make these expressions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.222.0	...it's absolutely fake.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.223.0	That is radically true, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.224.0	And time has run out – time has run out.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.225.0	You're aborting... [[The president removes the microphone from the speaker and the speaker continues to speak for a few moments.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.226.0	The word "Mr. Marc Vidal", of the Grup Parlamentari Catalunya Yes, it is Pot.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.227.0	Yes, thank you, President. There's a lot of excitement; it's obvious they have to lay down elections, surely. Mr. Castel, I must give you the reason in the complaint that when one does a job the others do not look at it. Now, I would also ask for a little reflection around which it is the intention at the time to present this Missal as a motion to the Parliament of Catalonia, because if it is to do a thorough job of listing all the problems and the themes of the Gironinian communities, it is clear that there are many, we could put three hundred more pages on it; if it is to make them work very hard for the Gironinian communities, it may not be appropriate to have so many themes of general character, the majority, which would be applicable to any part of the country; if it is to make their future electoral program to Girona because they anticipate that it would lead to immediate electoral advancements, therefore, man, perhaps the government should be able to review them because they are so many that they may not be able to speak, but rather that they should be able to do so. So, it's quicker, I let it, huh? , a compendium of desires, of inconcretions, perhaps of vagrations that could be voted for in large part, but that do not compromise to almost... Miri, I was about to present to him a message that would have connected perfectly, something as I said: "The Government of the Generalitat is committed to the fact that all the citizens of Girona are happy, for example; it would have connected perfectly, because it is something that everyone could vote for. In addition, it opens a new way of making parliamentary literature, which is to say: "As we discussed fifteen days ago for Lleida, today we will discuss again for Girona. Most points..., the first two points, which, in fact, are sixty-six... Yes, it has added a few more points, specifics of Girona, beyond the « Girona more, I suppose, that these do make reference to specific aspects of the gironine businesses. So, as we discussed fifteen days ago, and as it would be for any region of the country, my friends, our group gives it for discussion. So, we haven't just presented a report, but we won't discuss it again, have we? They will have a general abstention in these first two points, which, I say, are not two, are sixty-six, which is the way we have to state that the way of presenting it does not seem right to us. In the part of the « Girona mais, here yes, we have presented ideas: some to point out some aspects, others to manifest some divergence; divergence, surely, in the way we approach the tract that reigns the gironine comarques. We agree with what you said in your intervention, in your question fifteen days ago, when you came to say more or less that Catalonia is a little barcelonized in the sense of lack of investment and economic development, we agree. But, as you know, if, for what we would say to the barcelonauts, the comarques of the south are as serious as a recast of the country, they are the apparador from the north. And that's what it looks like from the start that gives us advantage, actually doesn't, because in a trimmer, you fix it, huh? , it's all for sale, and sometimes it's down: territory, people's salvation, natural resources, everything. And here's where we have some small differences. We have reached agreement on point 7, which talks about empowering us operators for the airport after the foreign experience of Ryanair. What we claimed was that this was part of a global Catalan airport strategy involving the country's large airport and small airports, but after they accepted the Socialist Party's message. With regard to point 14, on fisheries subsidies, we have proposed an alternative drafting to implement the calendar of biologic parades and relate it to the essential foundations to ensure the survival of gironine fisheries, and we are pleased that this has been accepted. In relation to point 18, on the tourist tax, we have made it an addition that relates to the submissions submitted to the assumption because we believe that this tax should be addressed above all to minimize the negative externalities caused by tourism in the municipalities where it is produced and to improve the balance in the destiny. He didn't accept our endorsement. And at item 19, in relation to reordering the tourist brands, we consider, against what they say to create more, that Girona has many and many dispersions and that what would be hot is probably to reduce them and enhance them. Here we made a deal; which we also appreciate. For what it does at point 21, what we are asking is precisely what the motion says in other points, but not in this: that it is completing some resolutions approved in this Parliament on the study of alternatives to the enlargement of the C-32 and its moratorium – which it has not accepted. And, therefore, in summary, thank those who accepted us, thank the transaction. Notify that we will basically abstain for inconcrete and why, while agreeing on the supposed object of the item, the wording is very inconcrete in the comm – set 10 and 22, in this we will abstain. And with regard to the accepted papers of the other groups, man, we could not vote for the 30th item of the list that you submitted to us from the PSC, on the unfolding of the National II, because it is a topic that we have discussed and have, we express divergent positions, and therefore logically we will make the historical vote that we have made all our lives. In any case, thank this missal, and we don't go to Mass, all the way, huh? [[Rialles.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.228.0	Thank you, Mr. Vidal. Then, to fix his position, has the word Lord Saladié, of the Popular Unity Candidate - Constituent Creed.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.229.0	All right, thank you, President. With my magnificent Gironani I will defend the position of the CUP - Crida Constituent in this motion presented for the Ciutadans Group ; a movement that followed this provincial serial that they started with the province of Lleida will do two weeks, which now continues with that of Girona, and which seems not to continue with that of Tarragona. And we don't want to hear it, this, as discrimination for reasons of territory, because they haven't filed an inquiry this week, and I say, "Host, see if they won't do the Tarragona one now. [[Pause.]] Okay. [[Rialles.]] All right. Well, it's a long young man, who's twenty-four points, but that's broken down through sixty-six apart, that if we add these twenty-four points to sixty-six apart, that's a total of ninety-six apart, that's more, the Girona's motion, and less so that the president warned the group that there's no such long motions, because, if not, we could be talking here about a fairly unusual misadjustment. And these precisely sixty-six separates are identical to that of Lleida's motion; or, they are the same, with an encapsulation that says: "What we have approved for Lleida now we will do, we want to do for Girona. And that's all we have to say about our impression, which we said the other day, that we find ourselves in front of a movement; of a movement in order to be able to "carry out before the territory, in this case I turned it around, that such or such points, or such better ones, have been approved. This reminds us of the style of the ideas that are presented to the articulation of the assumptions by many parliamentary opposition groups, which use and abuse a prerogative through which, therefore, they want to promise multiple betters that they do not have guaranteed a presuppositional departure. Now, I don't think he'll ever be able to work on the presupposition numbers like we did the CUP when we presented between 60 and 70 percent of the presupposition numbers, which is where the job is, say, right? And in this sense, it is true that the Citizens' Group did not present it, from the viewpoints, to the articulate, it did not abuse this prerogative, and that is true, and perhaps this is what has led them to now, so that they can't be bothered with the rest of the parliamentary opposition groups going on for the territory that they have promised this or that they have promised others; so, now you want to make up for it with this serial of, as at least, three successive motions talking about a number of different questions relating to the three provinces that you have named. And, therefore, we do not agree with this copying and hitting of different points from one place to another, separating provincially some problems that we would have to have the same treatment, independently or despite the existence of the provincial division. And as Benet said fifteen days ago, we do not agree with this provincial mark, with what this package of motions poses, because we understand that this is a territorial organization that was imposed by the year 1833, with this provincial division of the Spanish State; a division perpetrated by Francisco Javier de Burgos and del Olmo, which was the state secretary of the Ministry of Development, or of the Ministry of Development, and which established a territorial division with a democratic and geographically homogeneous character and centralizer, and which, moreover, overlapped with the territorial organization, say, more ours, with regions or veggieries, closer to the Principality. And we have historically opted for this type of territorial organization, which is closer to the citizenry, either through local councils or through regions or ever, where the various problems can be dealt with in a way that is more far-reaching, or by the implementation of policies that come up from the top, from the Government of the Generality, or, especially, from our point of view and from our political culture, policies that are made from below, from the municipalities, right? And we find these points of finding more with the local councils or the old ones, more than not with these provincial areas, which we neither recognize nor combat. And, therefore, as we did the other day with Lleida's motion, we would vote against the totality of the points of this motion, as shown by a thought to the totality of this way of hearing territorial policy both for what it does to the mark and for what it does to focus. And finally – I'm twenty-second – tell Mr. Santamaría that it's relaxing, that he doesn't hyperventilate so much here, from the Faristol, because we already understand, that the centrality that they don't give them the ballot boxes, right? , and the political marginality in which they find themselves in Catalonia, so the vulguin, right? , exacerbate here cryin' [[remorse of the voice]] And say that we don't know things, when we, like the CUP - Creed Constituent, or as the CUP, in this case, both Girona, as Olot..., as infinite places in which we would like to see 'they from our band, we present ourselves as a particular accusation in infinite cases of corruption. Thank you very much. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.230.0	Thank you, Mr. Saladié. The words "Mrs. Natàlia Figueras", of the Group of Parliamentarians Junts per el Sí, follow.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.231.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies, we will follow a little line that my companion, Albert Batalla, took at the time of explaining this type of motion. It's an absolutely playful, postureous move; it's a move that today's is more inconsistent to introduce than a week ago, because this move involves all actions and all points directed to the province of Girona from which, therefore, the assumption, yesterday, that we approved contemplated it and sometimes more extensively. We have worked on this young man: we have been on the ground, we have looked at him, we have looked at him, we have looked at the deputies, even the whole lobby of Junts for the Yes, together with the council; but, look, this young man can't vote for it, because it's true..., and he will be afraid that we will only be working for the process, that every day we don't care, that we don't compliment these facts or this electoral program that we bring, but it's true: the process is our main objective because it's what allows us to have the tools and manage all our money so that we can complete all these points that you propose to us, and without having these resources we can't do it. Therefore, a more incoherence that adds to his young man. We can do as did the Battle Company and the group, that is, trying to work it, to participate in it, to form part of it, but it is that today it does not feel; it has not felt because..., or we reject it because..., it is not because we do not want to complete it, it is not because we do not want to work there, as if insinuated or said directly, it is not because we do not want to allocate money to Girona, on the contrary, we believe it very much, but it is simply totally inconsistent that you propose a motion from which the vast majority of points of the departments presented them to the assumptions and you voted against it. Therefore, incoherence is not done by the government or by the parliamentary group, but by being transferred and exposed by you. We can also come in a little bit to detail the type of young man, as the companions have done. We add enough to the philosophy of Mr. Bruguera to take common axes and points that allow us to develop the territory and make it different, differentiated and work it together. But she is a young man, too, and you know that she is from Girona, that she has no philosophy of territory, that she does not contemplate the diversity and richness she has; they are simply very concrete points that at the same time do not include a project in this case of party or government or even ideological, are not contemplated. And it's one of the points we've also missed. They talk about concrete infrastructures, which we could mention and make a list of them, but no, we don't agree – we don't agree. And in addition to many or some of the aspects that are asked of us are also contemplated, or are not our competence, and, therefore, we would also ask that this be transferred to Madrid and can ask for it and help us to be able to complete it and do so. I, uh, I'm already finishing up, you know, hard on me, huh? Mr. Santamaría, because I always end up with you and all the motions I bring to you, I end up talking to you, but it's because you can't jump to the hemicicle, you can't come to the hemicicle and talk about corruption or talk about Girona – or talk about Girona – because you don't legitimize when your government – only – on the subject of National II, only on the subject of National II, would have fallen the face of shame [[applause]] I'm not talking about the rest of the non-compliances, I'm talking about this. You can't do it, you can't legitimize it, you lost it, and your party lost it all. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.232.0	Thank you, Mrs. Figueras, many thanks. The words of Mr. Jean Castel, to pronounce on the exams, are followed by the words of Mr. Jean Castel.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.233.0	Thank you, President. Counselor, deputies, deputies..., look, we'll start at the end, Mrs. Natalia Figueras. Obviously, you didn't even look at the scene. I'm not implying, I'm ratifying. I ratify it and the power is that the prism of Maçanet is not very wide among the gironine comarques. I, if you will, will accompany you to the gironine comarques and we will be able to see every point of the realities that we have in Girona. That said, when you speak of postureig... and what are you doing here every day since this legislature began? Your government? Your law? Your real political fan? There's another way to make and hear politics, and that's what Ciutadans does from this bench like the opposition. [[Widow's remorse.]] Do you know what real politics means? [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] Legislate. Possess solutions, improves...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.234.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.235.0	...and adapt to anything that doesn't work. Posing and improving is working for this institution and for the gironine communities. And, as I said, if its prism, from the Forest Maçanet, is one, I am willing to accompany it throughout our province and for the different trades where you can see the reality that we live and patim. Say that..., to the Lord of the CUP..., listen to me, you don't like to talk about provinces? But, as I said the other day, they've taken care of all the provincial deputies they can. If they don't like the provinces, then resign and leave the parliament. Power would be a good starting point to ratify and give strength when you use seconds literally. Okay? Say that, time, common needs. Do you know who the common needs are? The ones you, power, don't see when you're blinded, when you're tanked, when you do this lock of not wanting to see reality. But the real problem still exists tomorrow. You have had the opportunity to send a motion, participate and enrich it. Do you know what they've done? They've made a living, they haven't come in to talk, and they apologize for talking about old times and other fears that they have nothing to do with this young man. That said, a waste of opportunity, as I said in the question to the councilman, a waste of opportunity more to seek solutions, better and convert the gironine commas into much better than they are, and not keeping the real problem every day in the street, in our city and in the rest of the commas. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.236.0	Thank you very much, Mr. Castle. Call it a vote. Mr. Vidal, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.237.0	Yes, President; to ask for a separate vote on the points... [[Funnel veils]] – no, set – points 1 and 2, with its sixty-six subpoints. Points 10, 18 and 22 can all be voted together? And then points 21 and 30, which could also be voted together. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] 1, 2, 10, 18 and 22, for one, and...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.238.0	You can vote together, huh?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.239.0	Yeah. The 21st and the 30th, for the others.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.240.0	All right, thank you. Mr. Santamaría, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.241.0	Yes, Madam President, for Members' remarks.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.242.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.243.0	Thank you. Mrs. Figueras, you confirm the suspicions: you speak of the Gironí lobby, and we already know who is leading you: Mr. Puigdemont. So, when we talk about corruption, 3_per_cent, you've put black on white that's how it is. I mean, you confirm that. [[Widow's remorse.]] To Mr. Saladié – to Mr. Saladié – to say that legitimacy is given by the votes, not the charges. But you've become very classy. So, you, now you have some kind of schizophrenia because you're stepping on carpets, you've become classy, but you also want to go back to the tribe. They decide to. Decide whether the tribe or class and the carpet.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.244.0	Mr. Rodriguez, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.245.0	Ask for a separate vote.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.246.0	How many points?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.247.0	One, two and seven.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.248.0	U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U-U. - No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, So you can't vote it together anymore, huh? Can these three points be voted together? [[Pause.]] Mr. Rodriguez, can these three points be voted together? [[Pause.]] Yeah? [[Pause.]] But it seems to me that it is not compatible with what Mr. Vidal asked us to do, which he asked us to do: 1, 2, 10, 18 and 22, or so... Mrs. Figueras, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.249.0	For allusions.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.250.0	Thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.251.0	Yeah. Mr Castel, you had the option of voting part of the measures proposed to us in the votes we made yesterday and Tuesday. Your group didn't do it. Therefore, it's very cool to come here and present an electoral propaganda, talk to it and not be consistent at the time of voting. [[Widow's remorse.]] Mr. Santamaría, I keep telling you the same thing: you don't have the legitimacy to talk about Girona. [[The remorse of the voice persists.]] I can't talk about Girona! It's not legitimized...
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.252.0	Quiet, and please.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.253.0	...doesn't have it.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.254.0	Quiet! Mr. Castel, why ask me the word?
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.255.0	For allusions, Madam President.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.256.0	Thirty seconds. I don't know if we're done.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.257.0	Miri, Mrs. Figueras, voting a premise is responsibility. And when a premise doesn't prioritize the need to turn it into an emergency, how do you do it, huh? , when they do those parties, which yesterday were warned, including – including – we don't talk about all the reports of the Board of Statutory Guarantees..., we could make a long list. Convert priority to urgency and it'll have us in the canto. While you make use of it as a sponsor of a premise that sponsors your delusion and your obsession of every day, you will never hold us in this song. [[Greetings.]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.258.0	A separate vote has been requested on points 1, 2 and 7, which will be voted on separately, because we cannot marry what two parliamentary groups have asked for. Then, if they look good, points 10, 18 and 22 could they vote together? [[Pause.]] So we'll vote the 1, the 2, the 7 separately; 10, 18 and 22 together; the 21 and 30 together, if they look good, and then the rest of the motion. [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Don't you? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]]
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.259.0	No, 1, 2 and 7.
ParlaMint-ES-CT_2017-03-23-3203.260.0	1, 2 and 7 separately all three, why did they ask for them, huh? [[Don't worry about it. Don't worry ……]] Can 1 and 2 vote together? [[Pause.]] So, we vote 1, 2 together; 7; 10, 18 and 22; 21 and 30. Okay? [[Pause.]] So, come on. We're going to vote points 1 and 2. The vote begins. Points 1 and 2 were rejected by 40 votes to 70, with 16 abstentions. Then we'll vote for point number 7. The vote begins. Point 7_has been rejected by 49 votes to 70, with 9 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 10, 18 and 22. The vote begins. Points 10, 18 and 22 were rejected by 49 votes to 70, with 9 abstentions. We will continue to vote on points 21 and 30. The vote begins. Points 21 and 30 were rejected by 49 votes in favour, 79 against and no abstentions. Then we'll vote on the rest of the motion. The vote begins. The Moció on the Government's actions in Girona province was rejected by 58 votes in favour, 70 against and no abstentions. Thank you all very much. And the session goes up.
